Produced by Charles Aldarondo, Tiffany Vergon, Andy Schmitt and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team


THE HEAVENLY TWINS

BY MADAME SARAH GRAND
AUTHOR OF "IDEALA," ETC. ETC.


"They call us the Heavenly Twins."
"What, signs of the Zodiac?" said the Tenor.
"No; signs of the times," said the Boy.


  The time is racked with birth-pangs; every hour
  Brings forth some gasping truth, and truth new-born
  Looks a misshapen and untimely growth,
  The terror of the household and its shame,
  A monster coiling in its nurse's lap
  That some would strangle, some would starve;
  But still it breathes, and passed from hand to hand,
  And suckled at a hundred half-clad breasts
  Comes slowly to its stature and its form,
  Calms the rough ridges of its dragon scales,
  Changes to shining locks its snaky hair,
  And moves transfigured into Angel guise,
  Welcomed by all that cursed its hour of birth,
  And folded in the same encircling arms
  That cast it like a serpent from their hold!

--_Oliver Wendell Holmes_.


PROEM.


_Mendelssohn's "Elijah."_
[Illustration: (musical notation); lyrics: He, watch-ing o-ver Is--ra--el,
slumbers not, nor sleeps.]

From the high Cathedral tower the solemn assurance floated forth to be a
warning, or a promise, according to the mental state of those whose ears
it filled; and the mind, familiar with the phrase, continued it
involuntarily, carrying the running accompaniment, as well as the words
and the melody, on to the end. After the last reverberation of the last
stroke of every hour had died away, and just when expectation had been
succeeded by the sense of silence, they rang it out by day and night--the
bells--and the four winds of heaven by day and night spread it abroad over
the great wicked city, and over the fair flat country, by many a tiny
township and peaceful farmstead and scattered hamlet, on, on, it was said,
to the sea--to the sea, which was twenty miles away!

But there were many who doubted this; though good men and true, who knew
the music well, declared they had heard it, every note distinct, on summer
evenings when they sat alone on the beach and the waves were still; and it
sounded then, they said, like the voice of a tenor who sings to himself
softly in murmurous monotones. And some thought this must be true, because
those who said it knew the music well, but others maintained that it could
not be true just for that very reason; while others again, although they
confessed that they knew nothing of the distance sound may travel under
special circumstances, ventured, nevertheless, to assert that the chime
the people heard on those occasions was ringing in their own hearts; and,
indeed, it would have been strange if those in whose mother's ears it had
rung before they were born, who knew it for one of their first sensations,
and felt it to be, like a blood relation, a part of themselves, though
having a separate existence, had not carried the memory of it with them
wherever they went, ready to respond at any moment, like sensitive chords
vibrating to a touch.

But everything in the world that is worth a thought becomes food for
controversy sooner or later, and the chime was no exception to the rule.
Differences of opinion regarding it had always been numerous and extreme,
and it was amusing to listen to the wordy warfare which was continually
being waged upon the subject.

There were people living immediately beneath it who wished it far enough,
they said, but they used to boast about it nevertheless when they went to
other places--just as they did about their troublesome children, whom they
declared, in like manner, that they expected to be the death of them when
they and their worrying ways were within range of criticism. It was a
flagrant instance of the narrowness of small humanity which judges people
and things, not on their own merits, but with regard to their effect upon
itself; a circumstance being praised to-day because importance is to be
derived from _its_ importance, and blamed to-morrow because a bilious
attack makes thought on any subject irritating.

Other people liked the idea of the chime, but were not content with its
arrangement; if it had been set in another way, you know, it would have be
so different, they asserted, with as much emphasis as if there were wisdom
in the words. And some said it would have been more effective if it had
not rung so regularly, and some maintained that it owed its power to that
same regularity which suggested something permanent in this weary world of
change. Among the minor details of the discussion there was one point in
particular which exercised the more active minds, but did not seem likely
ever to be settled. It was as to whether the expression given to the
announcement by the bells did not vary at different hours of the day and
night, or at different seasons of the year at all events; and opinion
differed as widely upon this point as we are told they did on one occasion
in some other place with regard to the question whether a fish weighed
heavier when it was dead than when it was alive--a question that would
certainly never have been settled either, had it not happened, after a
long time and much discussion, that someone accidentally weighed a fish,
when it was found there was no difference. The question of expression,
however, could not be decided in that way, expression being imponderable;
and it was pretty generally acknowledged that the truth could not be
ascertained and must therefore remain a matter of opinion. But that did
not stop the talk. Once, indeed, someone declared positively that the
state of a man's feelings at the moment would influence his perceptions,
and make the chimes sound glad when he was glad, and mournful when he was
melancholy; but nobody liked the solution.

Let them wrangle as they might, however, the citizens were proud of their
chime, and for a really good reason. It meant something! It was not a mere
jingle of bells, as most chimes are, but a phrase with a distinct idea in
it which they understood as we understand a foreign language when we can
read it without translating it. It might have puzzled them to put the
phrase into other words, but they had it off pat enough as it stood, and
they held it sacred, which is why they quarrelled about it, it being usual
for men to quarrel about what they hold sacred, as if the thing could only
be maintained by hot insistence--the things they hold sacred, that
is--although they cannot be sure of them, like the forms of a religion
which admit of controversy, as distinguished from the God they desire to
worship about whom they have no doubt, and therefore never dispute.

In this latter respect, however, the case of the people of Morningquest
was just the reverse of that which obtains in most other places, for in
consequence of the hourly insistence of the chime, their most impressive
monitor, they talked much more of Him whom they should worship than of
various ways to worship him; and the most persistent of all the questions
which occupied their attention arose out of the involuntary but continuous
effort of one generation after another to define with scientific accuracy
and to everybody's satisfaction his exact nature and attributes; in
consequence of which efforts there had come to be several most distinct
but quite contradictory ideas upon the subject. There were some
simple-minded folk to whom the chime typified a God essentially masculine,
and like a man, hugely exaggerated, but somewhat amorphous, because they
could not see exactly in what the exaggeration consisted except in the
size of him. They pictured him sitting alone on a throne of ivory and gold
inlaid with precious stones; and recited the catalogue of those mentioned
in the Book of the Revelation by preference as imparting a fine scriptural
flavor to the dea. And he sat upon the throne day and night, looking down
upon the earth, and never did anything else nor felt it monotonous. Buddha
himself, in Nirvana, could not have attained to a greater perfection of
contemplation than that with which they credited this curious divinity,
who served solely for a finish to their mental range as the sky was to
their visual; a useful point at which to aim their rudimentary faculty of
reverence.

But others, again, of a different order of intelligence, had passed beyond
this stage and saw in him more

  of a creature
  Moving about in worlds not realized;

very like Jove, but unmarried. He was both beneficent and jealous, and had
to be propitiated by regular attendance at church; but further than that
he was not exacting; and therefore they ventured to take his name in vain
when they were angry, and also to call upon him for help, with many
apologies, when there was nobody else to whom they could apply; although,
so long as the current of their lives ran smoothly on, they seldom
troubled their heads about him at all.

There were deeper natures than those, however, who were not content with
this small advance, and these last had by degrees, as suited their
convenience but without perceiving it, gradually discovered in him every
attribute, good, bad, or indifferent, which they found in themselves, thus
ascribing to him a nature of a highly complex and most extraordinarily
inconsistent kind, less that of a God than of a demon. To them he was
still a great shape like a man, but a shape to be loved as well as feared;
a God of peace who patronized war; a gentle lamb who looked on at carnage
complacently; a just God who condemned the innocent to suffer; an
omnipotent God who was powerless to make his law supreme; and they
reserved to themselves the right of constantly adding to or slightly
altering this picture; but having completed it so far, they were
thoroughly well satisfied with it, and, incongruous as it was, they
managed to make it the most popular of all the presentments, partly
because, being so flexible, it could be adjusted to every state of mind;
but also because there was money in it. Numbers of people lived by it, and
made name and fame besides; and these kept it going by damaging anybody
who ventured to question its beauty. For there is no faith that a man
upholds so forcibly as the one by which he earns his livelihood, whether
it be faith in the fetish he has helped to make, or in a particular kind
of leather that sells quickest because it wears out so fast.

In these latter days, however, it began to appear as if the supremacy of
the great masculine idea was at last being seriously threatened, for even
in Morningquest a new voice of extraordinary sweetness had already been
heard, not _his_, the voice of man; but _theirs_, the collective
voice of humanity, which declared that "He, watching," was the
all-pervading good, the great moral law, the spirit of pure love, Elohim,
mistranslated in the book of Genesis as "He" only, but signifying the
union to which all nature testifies, the male and female principles which
together created the universe, the infinite father and mother, without
whom, in perfect accord and exact equality, the best government of nations
has always been crippled and abortive.

Those who heard this final voice were they who loved the chime most truly,
and reverenced it; but they did not speak about it much: only, when the
message sounded, they listened with that full-hearted pleasure which is
the best praise and thanks. Mendelssohn must have felt it when the melody
first occurred to him, and the words had wedded themselves to the music in
his soul!

[Illustration: (musical notation); lyrics: He, watch-ing o-ver Is--ra--el,
slumbers not, nor sleeps.]

And the chime certainly had power to move the hearts of many; but it would
be hard to say when it had most power, or upon whom. Doubtless, the
majority of those who had ears to hear in the big old fashioned city heard
not, use having dulled their faculties; or if, perchance, the music
reached them it conveyed no idea to their minds, and passed unheeded. It
was but an accustomed measure, one more added to the myriad other sounds
that make up the buzz of life, and help, like each separate note of a
chord, to complete the varied murmur which is the voice of "a whole city
full."

But of course there were times when it was specially apt to strike
home--in the early morning, for instance, when the mind was fresh and hope
was strong enough to interpret the assurance into a promise of joy; and
again at noon, when fatigue was growing and the mind perceived a
sympathetic melancholy in the tones which was altogether restful; but it
was at midnight it had most power. It seemed to rise then to the last
pitch of enthusiasm, sounding triumphant, like the special effort that
finishes a strain, as if to speed the departing interval of time; but when
it rang again, after the first hour of the new day, its voice had dropped,
as it were, to that tone of indifference which expresses the accustomed
doing of some monotonous duty which has become too much of a habit to
excite either pleasure or pain. To the tired watcher then, for whom the
notes were mere tones conveying no idea, the soft melancholy cadence,
dulled by distance, was like the half-stifled echo of her own last stifled
sigh.

It is likely, however, that the chime failed less of its effect outside
the city than it did within; but there again it depended upon the hearer.
When the mellow tones floated above the heath where the gipsies camped,
only one, perchance, might listen, lifting her bright eyes with pleasure
and longing in them, dumbly, as a child might, yet showing for a moment
some glimmering promise of a soul. But to many in the village close at
hand the chime brought comfort. It seemed to assure the sick, counting the
slow hours, that they were not forsaken, and helped them to bear their
pain with patience; it seemed to utter to the wayworn a word which told
them their trouble was not in vain; it seemed to invite all those who
waited and were anxious to trust their care to Him and seek repose. It was
all this, and much more, to many people: and yet, when it spread in
another direction over the fields, it meant nothing to the yawning
ploughman, either musical or poetical, had no significance whatever for
him if it were not of the time of day, gathered, however, with the help of
sundry other sensations of which hunger and fatigue were chief. It
probably conveyed as much, and neither more nor less, to the team he
drove.

But perhaps of all the affairs of life with which the chime had mingled,
the most remarkable, could they be collected and recorded, would be the
occasions on which the hearing of the message had marked a turning point
in the career of some one person, as happened, once on a summer afternoon,
when it was heard by a Lancashire collier--a young lad with an unkempt mop
of golden hair, delicate features, and limbs which were too refined for
his calling, who was coming up the River Morne on a barge.

The river winds for a time through a fertile undulating bit of country,
and nothing of the city can be seen until you are almost in it, except the
castle of the Duke of Morningquest, high perched on a hill on the farther
side, and the spire of the cathedral, which might not attract your
attention, however, if it were not pointed out to you above the trees.
When the chime floated over this sparsely peopled tract, filling the air
with music, but coming from no one could tell whence, there was something
mysterious in the sound of it to an imaginative listener in so apparently
remote a place; and once, twice, as the long hours passed, the young
collier heard it ring, and wondered. He had nothing to do but listen, and
watch the man on the bank who led the horse that was towing the barge; or
address a rare remark to his solitary companion--an old sailor, dressed in
a sou'-wester, blue jersey, and the invariable drab trowsers,
tar-besprent, and long boots, of his calling, who steered automatically,
facing the meadows in beautiful abstraction. He would have faced an
Atlantic gale, however, with that same look.

When the chime rang out for the third time, the young collier spoke:

"It's the varse of a song, maybe?" he suggested.

"Aye, lad," was the laconic rejoinder.

The barge moved on--passed a little farmhouse close to the water's edge;
passed some lazy cattle standing in a field flicking off flies with their
tails; passed a patient fisherman, who had not caught a thing that day,
and scarcely expected to, but still fished on. The sun sparkled down on
the water; the weary man and horse plodded along the bank; far away, a
sweet bird sang; and the collier spoke again.

"Dost tha' know the varse?" he said.

The old man had been brought up in those parts; he knew it well; and
slowly repeated it to the lad, who listened without a sign, sitting with
his dreamy eyes fixed on the water:

"He, watching over Israel, slumbers not, nor sleeps."

There was another long silence, and then the lad spoke once more, with
apathetic gravity, asking: "Who's _He?_"

The old man kept his eyes fixed on a distant reach of the river, and moved
no muscle of his face.

"I guess it's Christ," he said at last.

"Ah niver 'eerd tell on 'im," the collier answered slowly.

"Hast 'niver 'eerd tell on Christ?" the old man asked in measured
machine-like tones. "I thowt ivery one know'd on 'im. Why, what religion
are you?"

"Well, me feyther's a Liberal--leastways 'im as brought me up," was the
passionless rejoinder, slowly spoken; "but ah doan't know no one o' the
name o' Christ, an', what's more, ah's sure 'e doan't work down our way,"--
with which he sauntered forward with his hands in his trowser pockets, and
sat in the bow; and the old man steered on as before.

How like a mind is to a river! both may be pure and transparent and
lovable, and strong to support and admirable; each may mirror the beauties
of earth and sky, and still have a wonderful beauty of its own to delight
us; both are always moving onward, bound irresistibly to be absorbed in a
great ocean mystery, to be swept away irreclaimably, without hope of
return, but leaving memories of themselves in good or evil wrought by them;
and both are pure at the outset, but can be contaminated, when they in
turn contaminate; and, being perverted in their use, become accursed, and
curse again with all the more effect because the province of each was to
bless.

The collier lad in the bow of the barge felt something of the fascination
of the river that day. He saw it sparkle in the sunshine, he heard it
ripple along its banks, he felt the slow and dreamy motion of the boat it
bore; and his mind was filled with unaccustomed thought, and a strange
yearning which he did not understand. There was something singularly
attractive about the lad, although his clothes were tattered, his golden
hair and delicate skin were begrimed, his great bright eyes had no
intelligent expression in them, and there was that discontented
undisciplined look about his mouth which is common to uneducated men. He
had no human knowledge, but he had capacity, and he had music, the divine
gift, in his soul, and the voice of an angel to utter it.

What passed through his dim consciousness in the interval which followed
his last remark, no one will ever know; but the chime had once more
sounded; and, suddenly, as he sat there, he took up the strain, and sang
it--and the labourers in the fields, and the loiterers by the river, and
the ladies in their gardens, even the very cattle in the meadows, looked
up and listened, wondering, while he varied the simple melody, as singers
can, finding new meaning in the message, and filling the summer silence
with perfect raptures of ecstatic sound.

It was a voice to gladden the hearts of men, and one who heard it knew
this, and followed the barge, and took the lad and had him taught, so that
in after days the world was ready to fall at his feet and worship the
gift.

And so time passed. Change followed change, but the chime was immutable.
And always, whatever came, it rang out calmly over the beautiful old city
of Morningquest, and entered into it, and was part of the life of it,
mixing itself impartially with the good and evil; with all the sin and
suffering, the pitiful pettiness, the indifference, the cruelty, and every
form of misery-begetting vice, as much as with the purity above reproach,
the charity, the self-sacrifice, the unswerving truth, the patient
endurance, and courage not to be daunted, which are in every city--mixing
itself with these as the light and air of heaven do, and with effects
doubtless as unexpected and as fine; and ready also to be a help to the
helpless, a guide to the rash and straying, a comfort to the comfortless,
a reproach to the reckless, and a warning to the wicked. The chiefs
of the party could play the game with markers. But indeed what is the
use of dealing the cards at all, when the Prime Minister holds all the
trumps in advance, not up his sleeve, but openly on the table? As for the
speeches in the House, they have as much effect upon the issue as the
conversations at the card-table. They are an obsolete survival from the
times when members were liable to come to the House with open minds, instead
of having them closed by their constituencies. Indeed, I can
suggest a simple device by which, without any departure from the
ancient forms of the House, most of the evils of Party Government
could be swept away.

By the system of "pairing" a Tory may neutralize a Radical, and
both go on together without interfering with the good of the country.

Let therefore the entire minority pair off with members of the opposite
party, leaving the bare majority in possession of the floor. Being
agreed on their policy, these would not want to make speeches, but would
simply spend their time walking through the "Ayes" lobby. A few afternoons
of pleasant promenading would provide the country with enough
legislation for a lifetime. _Solvitur ambulando._ The party leaders would
be enabled to husband their energies for the hustings, since like all
the agreeable members they would easily find "partners." It is only
the bores who would be left to walk the House. It will be observed that
this incalculable gain of time, temper, money, and Acts of Parliament
would be secured without revolution, on constitutional lines, and by a
mere extension of an existing practice. I am convinced the salvation of the
country depends on the universal adoption of the system of Parliamentary
"pairing," or legislation by walking "wall-flowers."
A further advantage of this system deserves to be noted. As it takes
forty members to make a House, should the Governmental majority fall below
this number no business could be transacted. Thus it would become impossible,
when the country was almost equally divided, for one party to impose its
will on the nation by force of a bare majority.

Again, therefore, a very necessary reform would be achieved on
strictly constitutional lines.

In so confused a constitution, or so constitutional a confusion,
it ill becomes one to inquire why pre-eminence in Parliament is
attained by dexterity in the word-duel, and why a John Stuart Mill,
who gave his life to the study of sociological questions, is a
failure in the House, while a Randolph Churchill, who confessedly
found politics more exciting than any other form of sport, including
even horse-racing, should be a success.

As in Athens of old, the rhetorician is master of the field.

Does it not seem ridiculous that a man shall be allowed to legislate
who has not passed an examination in political philosophy, political
economy, and universal history?

As absurd as that men should be able to set up as critics merely
by purchasing reviews, that they should be permitted to ply without
a license.

Still, monstrous as is the mischief wrought by the quack critic,
his sphere of influence is limited.

But this question of government touches us all.

No one ought to be allowed in the House who has not satisfactorily
grappled with papers like the following.

1.

Explain the use of the following phrases: "Home Rule," "Liberty,"
"Well-being of the Masses," "G.

O. M.," "Good of the State," "The Constitution." What meaning do you
attach to them, if any?

2. "The Function of an Opposition Is To Oppose." Criticise this statement
from the point of view of the Party in Power, and trace carefully
the modification in its view produced by a change of government.

3.

What is a good electoral address? Is there any relation between it and its
owner's votes in the House?

4.

(a) Prove that Female Franchise is demanded not only by the women
of England, but by every consideration of reason and justice.

(b) Disprove the same.

5. The leader of your party suddenly reverses his policy.

(a) What would you think?

(b) What would you say?

(c) How would you vote?

Give no reasons for your answer.

6. If C represents Conscience, and C1 the Constituency, show that C1 will
always be represented by C2[*].

[Transcriber's note: So in original.]
7. What is a working-man? Explain why professional men who work sixteen
hours a day are excluded from this category.

8. Define a political victory, and distinguish between a political
victory and a moral victory.

But perhaps the discrepancy is less than meets the eye. The House of Commons
is a _Representative_ Assembly; the rhetoricians and fencers represent
the unreason and the pugnacity of the partisans. A country has the
politicians it deserves. I have heard the most ignorant girls rage
against Mr. Gladstone; damsels in their teens who knew nothing of life or
its problems, nor could have studied any question for themselves;
pretty girls withal, but who at the mention of the veteran statesman
took on the avenging aspect of the Eumenides.

It was a girl of quite another temper who replied to me when, talking
over old times and old discussions, I said I had not yet become a Socialist:
"I don't think you ever knew what you were." I winced as at a just reproach,
yet when I had left her the retort occurred to me (as retorts will, when
too late) that there was no particular merit in being a "what," that men
were not necessarily "'ists" or "'ites," that thoughts did not fit into
pigeonholes, and that if there was any merit in the matter it consisted
rather in preserving free play and elasticity of mind. Because certain
men had put certain ideas into the world it did not follow that
every other man had definitely to accept or reject each and all of
them, and to become an "'ite" or an "anti-'ite" in so doing.

Plague take great men!

What right had they to force one into the jury-box? Still less was it
compulsory to return a verdict if, as the vulgar were apt to think,
the acceptance of any one "'ism" precluded the acceptance of another,
so that to be an Ibsenite was synonymous with detesting the dramas
of Sardou, and to be a Wagnerite involved a horror of Mendelssohn.

It was only the uncultured who held their artistic and political
creeds with the narrowness of Little Bethel, importing into thought
and aesthetics the zealotry they had lost in religion. The book of Experience,
thought I, is not an Encyclopaedia, with every possible topic neatly
ranged in alphabetical order; 'tis no A B C Time Table, with the
trains docketed for the enlightenment of the simple,'t is rather
an Encyclopaedia torn into a million million fragments by kittens
and pasted together again by infants, so that all possible things
are inextricably interfused, every one with every other; 't is a
Bradshaw edited by a maniac, where the trains that start but don't
arrive are not even distinguished from the trains that arrive but
don't start.

Wherever persons are conscious of the infinite complexities of things, they
will be found cautious of creed and timid of assertion.

You have probably noted that at Waterloo Station, in London, no porter
will ever bind himself to a definite statement concerning any train. It is
only the inartistic who hold that black is black and white is white,
unconditionally, irretrievably; and who have invented the proverb "He'd
say black's white" to express the Sophist _in excelsis_.

It must be true, as Ruskin contends, that not one man in fifteen thousand
has ever observed anything, else how account for this wide-spread fallacy?
The "wit of one," instead of crystallising this "wisdom of the many,"
should have flatly contradicted it. For, take two blackboards and place
them at right angles to each other: let a ray of bright sunlight fall upon
them, so that one cast a shadow on the other. The portion of blackboard
overshadowed will indeed be blackish, but the portion illuminated
by full sunlight will be comparatively white, although it is still
thought of as a "_black_-board."

So, too, ask the man in the street for the colour of trees, and he
will reply "green." If I may permit myself a vulgar locution, the green
is in his eye. Trees are, of course, all colours of the rainbow, according
to kind and season; and grass, too, is by no means always so green as
people think it. We start in our childhood with prejudices on these
subjects--what is education but the systematic imparting of prejudice?--and
we rarely recover. Even the primitive rhymes of childhood fix ideas unalterably
in our minds:

The rose is red, the violet's blue, Sugar is sweet and so are you.

Tea-roses are not red nor Neapolitan violets blue; sugar is only sweet to
those unversed in metaphysics, and sugar of lead not even to them. As for
the compliment to the juvenile petticoat, let it remain. But the blackness
of black is a superstition that deserves no such courteous concessions.
There is, in fact, no black and no white at all, as any black-and-white
artist will tell you. Black is not a colour: it is merely the negation
of light. By day nothing is ever black--it always contains reflected
light from some surrounding object or objects: if you look at a "black"
thing by day, you see its details, which convincingly proves that light is
not absent. If there were such a thing as a black object, it could only
prove its existence by being seen; but if it is seen it is no longer black,
and if it is black it is no longer seen. The mourners at a funeral no more
wear black than the bridesmaids at a wedding wear white.
To be white, a thing would have to escape all reflected light; and even
if this were possible, the sunlight itself, the source of all light and
colour, would tinge it with yellow, or red, or pink, according to
the time of day.

"What!" the injudicious reader will cry, "is not snow white?
Does not the Dictionary boast even a double-barreled epithet 'snow-white'!
How about the 'great white sea' that stretches round the Pole?" I cannot
help it: these adjectives, these expressions were invented before artists
had taught men to see: hastily, as by men falling in love at first sight,
who are destined to make many discoveries concerning their idol later
on. Snow is never white, any more than the beloved is absolutely blameless.
For snow to be "snow-white," the sky would have to be white, whereas
in those arctic circles it should be either blue or grey.

Moreover, the snow being only semi-opaque must be tinctured by the shadow
of the darkness of its own depths; as for icebergs, well, you may see
green, brown, and even deep-grey ice, whilst the whitest have pinnacles
and crags that must break the light like prisms into all the colours
of the spectrum, and all these hues, again, do not fail to tint the snow.
Nor will the white bear improve the situation, for, to judge by the
specimen in our London Zoological Gardens, white bears are dirty yellow,
just as black bears are dirty brown.

But, so far from realising that black may be white, your average
voter seems to imagine that neither is ever even tempered: that his
party is purest white, and the opposition party impurest black.

That the other side reverses this colouring does not trouble him: it is
merely due to the aforesaid sophistical faculty of proving black white. I
once knew a man--no average voter he--who owned two comic papers, the one
Radical, the other Conservative. How he must have chuckled as he planned
the cartoons and settled the chiaroscuro! What blacks for the Tories
to be answered by counter-blacks for the Radicals! Beaconsfield as a sweep,
Gladstone as an Angel of Light; Beaconsfield as Ormuzd, Gladstone
as Ahriman; each in turn Lucifer, Son of the Morning, and Satan, the
discomfited demon. I tremble to think what would have happened if, by
one of those _contretemps_ which sometimes occur even in real life, the
cartoons had got interchanged. And caricatures such as these influence
the elections! The most childish nonsense, written in the picture-language
so dear to children! And on such ineptitudes the destinies of the
nation are supposed to turn!

'T is a comforting reflection, then, that the whole thing is so largely a
farce, that the real axis of events is elsewhere--by no means a thing
to grieve over. If the British Constitution is a paradox not to be
fathomed by human intellect, why, that is a quality which it shares
with Space and Time and all deep and elemental things. Your deep thinker
is invariably a paradox-monger, because everything when probed to its bottom
proves illusive, and is found to contain its own contradiction. Truth
is not a dead butterfly, to be transfixed with a pin and labelled, but a
living, airy, evasive butterfly. Perhaps that is the inner meaning of the
Whistlerian motto. The Hegelian self-contradictoriness of the British
Constitution will not, therefore, affright us. To Tennyson the fact that
it is a "crowned republic" seemed a source of security. The English
have abolished the Crown, though they are too loyal to inform the
Sovereign of his deposition; in like manner they have evaded Democracy by
conceding universal suffrage. The strength of the British Constitution
lies in its inherent absurdity, its audacious paradoxicalness. It exists
by force of not being carried out. And the reason of this illogicality
is clear: our Constitution, like Topsy, was not made but "growed,"
and that which grows is never logically perfect; it is like an old
tree, strangely gnarled, with countless abrasions and mutilations,
and sometimes even curious grafts.

Here the lightning struck it, and yonder branch was snapped in the great
gale. Machine-made schemes may be theoretically perfect, but they will
never suit human nature, which is a soil for living growths, not a concrete
foundation for elegant architecture. This is the truth which trips up
Comte, and Fourier, and St.

Simon, and all the system-makers and utopia-builders.

Perfect things are dead things: the law of life is imperfection and movement.
Life is never logical, it is only alive. If man had been made by machinery
his body would not have been erratically hairy; his toes would
long since have been improved away or welded together by an American
patentee; nor would there have remained, for our humiliation, those
traces of a caudal appendage which some osteologists have thought
to perceive in our distinguished anatomy; our brotherhood to the
beasts would have been betrayed only by our behaviour.

So that, though Politics be as absurd as the Constitution, God bless
her, it may yet fulfil as useful a function. Who would deprive the hosts
of working-men of their generous enthusiasms, even though these be to the
profit of the professional politician? Who would narrow their horizon back
to the public-house and the workshop or the clerical desk and the music-hall,
by assuring them that all these great national and international questions
will be no penny the worse or the better for their interest in them? For
it is they, not the State, that will be benefited. Politics is a
great educative force: it teaches history, geography, and the art
of debate, and is not without relation to Shakespeare and the
musical glasses.

The flies on the wheel are not moving the wheel, but they are travelling and
seeing the world, whereas they might otherwise be buzzing around the
dust-bin. Politics sets the humblest at the centre of great cross-roads
of history: it promotes clubs and all manner of fellowship, and enables the
poorest--on polling-day at least--to know himself the equal of the greatest.
Even the most illiterate is spared the mortification of being
reminded that he cannot sign his name.

And finally, and most of all, it preserves among us the lost art of
fighting.
After a battle
they counted scars and scratches for the honour of having most, and if
there were not bruises enough to satisfy one of them, the other was always
obligingly ready to fight again until there were.

Mr. Hamilton-Wells had great faith in the discipline of the Church service
for them, and was anxious that they should be early accustomed to go
there. They behaved pretty well while the solemnity was strange enough to
awe them, and one Sunday when Lady Adeline--their mother--could not
accompany him, Mr. Hamilton-Wells ventured to go alone with them. He took
the precaution to place them on either side of him so as to separate them
and interpose a solid body between them and any signals they might make to
each other; but in the quietest part of the service, when everybody was
kneeling, some movement of Diavolo's attracted his attention for a moment
from Angelica, and when he looked again the latter had disappeared. She
had discovered that it was possible to creep from pew to pew beneath the
seats, and had started to explore the church. On her way, however, she
observed a pair of stout legs belonging to a respectable elderly woman who
was too deep in her devotion to be aware of the intruder, and, being
somewhat astonished by their size, she proceeded to test their quality
with a pin, the consequence being an appalling shriek from the woman,
which started a shrill treble cry from herself. The service was suspended,
and Mr. Hamilton-Wells, the most precise of men, hastened down the aisle,
and fished his daughter out, an awful spectacle of dust, from under the
seat, incontinently.

When Mr. and Lady Adeline Hamilton-Wells went from home for any length of
time they were obliged to take their children with them, as servants who
knew the latter would rather leave than be left in charge of them, and
this was how it happened that Evadne made their acquaintance at an early
age.

It was during their first visit to Fraylingay, while they were still quite
tiny, and she was hardly in her teens, that the event referred to in
illustration of one of Evadne's characteristics occurred.

The twins had arrived late in the afternoon, and were taken into the
dining room, where the table was already decorated for dinner. It
evidently attracted a good deal of their attention, but they said nothing.
At dessert, however, to which Evadne had come down with the elder
children, the dining room door was seen to open with portentous slowness,
and there appeared in the aperture two little figures in long nightgowns,
their forefingers in their mouths, their inquisitive noses tilted in the
air, and their bright eyes round with astonishment. It was like the middle
of the night to them, and they had expected to find the room empty.

"Oh, you naughty children!" Lady Adeline exclaimed.

"The _darlings!_" cried Mrs. Frayling, Evadne's mother. "_Do_
let them come in," and she picked up Angelica, and held her on her knee,
one of the other ladies at the opposite end of the long table taking
Diavolo up at the same time. But the moment the children found themselves
on a level with the table they made a dart for the centre piece
simultaneously on their hands and knees, regardless of the smash of
dessert plates, decanters, wineglasses, and fruit dishes, which they upset
by the way.

"It _is!_" shrieked Angelica, thumping the flat mirror which was part
of the table decorations triumphantly.

"It is _what?_" cried Lady Adeline, endeavoring to reach the child.

"It's looking-glass, mamma. Diavolo said it was water."

There was much amusement at the words, and at the quaint spectacle of the
two little creatures sitting amid the wreckage in the middle of the table
not a bit abashed by the novelty of their conspicuous position. Only
Evadne, who was standing behind her mother's chair, remained grave. She
seemed to be considering the situation severely, and, acting on her own
responsibility, she picked Diavolo up in the midst of the general
hilarity, and carried him out of the room with her hand pressed tight on
his thigh. The child had come down armed with an open penknife, with which
to defend Angelica should they encounter any ogres or giants on the
stairs, and in scrambling up the table he had managed to strike himself in
the thigh with it, and had severed the femoral artery; but, with the
curious shame which makes some children dislike to own that they are hurt,
he had contrived to conceal the accident for a moment with his nightgown
under cover of the flowers, and it was only Evadne's observant eye and
presence of mind that had saved his life. No one in the house could make a
tourniquet, and she sat with the child on her knee while a doctor was
being fetched, keeping him quiet as by a miracle, and, stopping the
hemorrhage with the pressure of her thumb, not even his parents daring to
relieve her, since Diavolo had never been known to be still so long in his
life with anybody else. She held him till the operation of tying the
artery was safely accomplished, by which time Mr. Diavolo was sufficiently
exhausted to be good and go to sleep; and then she quietly fainted. But
she was about again in time to catch him when he woke, and keep him quiet,
and so by unwearied watching she prevented accidents until all danger was
over.

Diavolo afterward heard his parents praise her in unmeasured terms to
_her_ parents one day in her absence. She happened to return while
they were still in the room, and, being doubtless wide awake to the
advantages of such a connection, he took the opportunity of promising
solemnly, in the presence of such respectable witnesses, to marry her as
soon as he was able.

She had added the word "tourniquet" to her vocabulary during this time,
and having looked it up in the dictionary, she requested the doctor to be
so good as to teach her to make one. While doing so the doctor became
interested in his silent, intelligent pupil, and it ended in his teaching
her all that a young lady could learn of bandaging, of antidotes to
poisons, of what to do in case of many possible accidents, and also of
nursing, theoretically.

But this was not a solitary instance of the quiet power of the girl which
already compelled even elderly gentlemen much overworked and
self-absorbed, to sacrifice themselves in her service.


CHAPTER III.


It is a notable thing that in almost every instance it was her father's
influence which forced Evadne to draw conclusions in regard to life quite
unlike any of his own, and very distasteful to him. He was the most
conservative of men, and yet he was continually setting her mind off at a
tangent in search of premises upon which to found ultra-liberal
conclusions.

His primitive theories about women and "all that they are good for," for
one thing, which differed so materially from the facts as she observed
them every day, formed a constant mental stimulus to which her busy brain
was greatly indebted. "Women should confine their attention to
housekeeping," he remarked once when the talk about the higher education
of women first began to irritate elderly gentlemen. "It is all they are
fit for."

"Is it?" said Evadne.

"Yes. And they don't know arithmetic enough to do that properly."

"Don't they? why?" she asked.

"Because they have no brains," he answered.

"But some women have been clever," she ventured seriously.

"Yes, of course; exceptional women. But you can't argue from exceptional
women."

"Then ordinary women have no brains, and cannot learn arithmetic?" she
concluded.

"Precisely," he answered irritably. Such signs of intelligence always did
irritate him, somehow.

Evadne found food for reflection in these remarks. She had done a certain
amount of arithmetic herself in the schoolroom, and had never found it
difficult, but then she had not gone far enough, perhaps. And she went at
once to get a Colenso or a Barnard Smith to see. She found them more
fascinating when she attacked them of her own free will and with all her
intelligence than she had done when necessity, in the shape of her
governess, forced her to pay them some attention, and she went through
them both in a few weeks at odd times, and then asked her father's advice
about a book on advanced mathematics.

"Advanced mathematics!" he exclaimed. "Can you keep accounts?"

"I don't know," she answered doubtfully.

"Then what is this nonsense about advanced mathematics?"

"Oh, I have finished Barnard Smith, and I thought I should like to go on,"
she explained.

"Now, isn't that like your sex?" he observed, smiling at his own
superiority. "You pick things up with a parrot-like sharpness, but haven't
intelligence enough to make any practical application of them. A woman
closely resembles a parrot in her mental processes, and in the use she
makes of fine phrases which she does not understand to produce an effect
of cleverness--such as 'advanced mathematics!'"

Evadne bent her brow, and let him ruminate a little in infinite
self-content, then asked abruptly: "Can men keep accounts who have never
seen accounts kept?"

"No, of course not," he answered, seeing in this a new instance of
feminine imbecility, and laughing.

"Ah," she observed, then added thoughtfully as she moved away: "I should
like to see how accounts are kept."

She never had any more conversation with her father upon this subject, but
from that time forward mathematics, which had before been only an incident
in the way of lessons, became an interest in life, and a solid part of her
education. But, although she found she could do arithmetic without any
great difficulty, it never occurred to her either that her father could be
wrong or that there might be in herself the making of an exceptional
woman. The habit of love and respect kept her attention from any point
which would have led to a judgment upon her father, and she was too
unconscious of herself as a separate unit to make personal application of
anything as yet. Her mind at this time, like the hold of a ship with a
general cargo, was merely being stored with the raw materials which were
to be distributed over her whole life, and turned by degrees to many
purposes, useful, beautiful--not impossibly detestable.

But that remark of her father's about "all that women are fit for," which
he kept well watered from time to time with other conventional expressions
of a contemptuous kind, was undoubtedly the seed of much more than a
knowledge of the higher mathematics. It was that which set her mind off on
a long and patient inquiry into the condition and capacity of women, and
made her, in the end of the nineteenth century, essentially herself. But
she did not begin her inquiry of set purpose; she was not even conscious
of the particular attention she paid to the subject. She had no foregone
conclusion to arrive at, no wish to find evidence in favour of the woman
which would prove the man wrong. Only, coming across so many sneers at the
incapacity of women, she fell insensibly into the habit of asking why. The
question to begin with was always: "Why are women such inferior beings?"
But, by degrees, as her reading extended, it changed its form, and then
she asked herself doubtfully: "Are women such inferior beings?" a position
which carried her in front of her father at once by a hundred years, and
led her rapidly on to the final conclusion that women had originally no
congenital defect of inferiority, and that, although they have still much
way to make up, it now rests with themselves to be inferior or not, as
they choose.

She had an industrious habit of writing what she thought about the works
she studied, and there is an interesting record still in existence of her
course of reading between the ages of twelve and nineteen. It consists of
one thick volume, on the title page of which she had written roundly, but
without a flourish, "Commonplace Book," and the date. The first entries
are made in a careful, unformed, childish hand, and with diffidence
evidently; but they became rapidly decided both in caligraphy and tone as
she advanced. The handwriting is small and cramped, but the latter
probably with a view to economy of space, and it is always clear and neat.
There are few erasures or mistakes of grammar or spelling, even from the
first, and little tautology; but she makes no attempt at literary style or
elegance of expression. Still, all that she says is impressive, and
probably on that account. She chooses the words best calculated to express
her meaning clearly and concisely, and undoubtedly her meaning is always
either a settled conviction or an honest endeavour to arrive at one. It is
the honesty, in fact, that is so impressive. She never thinks of trying to
shine in the composition of words; there was no idea of budding authorship
in her mind; she had no more consciousness of purpose in her writing than
she had in her pinging, when she sang about the place. The one was as
involuntary as the other, and the outcome of similar sensations. It
pleased her to write, and it pleased her to sing, and she did both when
the impulse came upon her. She must, however, have had considerable
natural facility of expression. Writing seems always to have been her best
mode of communication. She was shy from the first in conversation, but
bold to a fault with her pen. Some of the criticisms she wrote in her
"Commonplace Book" are quite exhaustive; most of them are temperate,
although she does give way occasionally to bursts of fiery indignation at
things which outrage her sense of justice; but the general characteristic
is a marked originality, not only in her point of view, but also in the
use she makes of quite unpromising materials. In fact, the most notable
part of the record is the proof it contains that all the arguments upon
which she formed her opinions were found in the enemy's works alone. She
had drawn her own conclusions; but after having done so, as it happened,
she had the satisfaction of finding confirmation strong in John Stuart
Mill on "The Subjection of Women," which she came across by accident--an
accident, by the way, for which Lady Adeline Hamilton-Wells was
responsible. She brought the book to Fraylingay, and forgot it when she
went home, and Evadne, happening to find it throwing about, took charge of
it, read it with avidity, and found for herself a world of thought in
which she could breathe freely.

"The Vicar of Wakefield" was one of her early favourites. She read it
several times, and makes mention of it twice in her "Commonplace Book."
Her first notice of it is a childish little synopsis, very quaint in its
unconscious irony; but interesting, principally from the fact that she was
struck even then by the point upon which she afterward became so strong.

"The vicar," she says, "was a good man, and very fond of his wife and
family, and they were very fond of him, but his wife was queer, and could
only read a little. _And he never taught her to improve herself,
although_ he had books and was learned. [Footnote: This is the point
alluded to.] He had two daughters, who were spiteful and did not like
other girls to be pretty. They had bad taste, too, and wanted to go to
church overdressed, and thought it finer to ride a plough-horse than walk.
It does not say that they ever read anything, either. If they had they
would have known better. There is a very nasty man in the book called
Squire Thornhill, and a nice one called Sir William Thornhill, who was his
uncle. Sir William marries Sophia, and Squire Thornhill marries Olivia,
although he does not intend to. Olivia was a horrid deceitful girl, and it
served her right to get such a husband. They have a brother called Moses,
who used to talk philosophy with his father at dinner, and once sold a cow
for a gross of green spectacles. A gross is twelve dozen. Of course they
were all annoyed, but the vicar himself was cheated by the same man when
he went to sell the horse. He seemed to think a great deal of knowing
Latin and Greek, but it was not much use to him then. It was funny that he
should be conceited about what he knew himself, and not want his wife to
know anything. He said to her once: 'I never dispute your abilities to
make a goose pie, and I beg you'll leave argument to me'; which she might
have thought rude, but perhaps she was not a lady, as ladies do not make
goose pies. I forgot, though, they had lost all their money. They had
great troubles, and the vicar was put in prison. He was very ill, but
preached to the prisoners, and everybody loved him. I like 'The Vicar of
Wakefield' very much, and if I cannot find another book as nice I shall
read it again. 'Turn, Gentle Hermit' is silly. I suppose _Punch_ took
Edwin and Angelina out of it to laugh at them."

Quite three years must have elapsed before she again mentions "The Vicar
of Wakefield," and in the meantime she had been reading a fair variety of
books, but for the most part under schoolroom supervision, carefully
selected for her. Some, however, she had chosen for herself--during the
holidays when discipline was relaxed; but it was a fault which she had to
confess, and she does so always, honestly. Lewes' "Life of Goethe" was one
of these. She wrote a glowing description of it, at the end of which she
says:

"I found the book on a sofa in the drawing room, and began it without
thinking, and read and read until I had nearly finished it, quite
forgetting to ask leave. But of course I went at once to tell father as
soon as I thought of it. Mother was there too, and inclined to scold, but
father frowned, and said: 'Let her alone. It will do her no harm; she
won't understand it.' I asked if I might finish it, and he said, 'Oh,
yes,' impatiently. I think he wanted to get rid of me, and I am sorry I
interrupted him at an inconvenient time. Mother often does not agree with
father, but she always gives in. Very often she is right, however, and he
is wrong. Last week she did not want us to go out one day because she was
sure it would rain, but he did not think so, and said we had better go It
did rain--poured--and we got wet through and have had colds ever since,
but when we came in mother scolded me for saying, 'You see, you were
right,' She said I should be saying 'I told yon so!' next, in a nasty
jeering way as the boys do, which really means rejoicing because somebody
else is wrong, and is not generous. I hope I shall never come to that; but
I know if I am ever sure of a thing being right which somebody else thinks
is wrong, it won't matter what it is or who it is, I shall not give in. I
don't see how I could."

Her pen seldom ran away with her into personal matters like these, in the
early part of the book; but from the first she was apt to be beguiled
occasionally by the pleasure of perceiving a powerful stimulant under the
influence of which everything is lost sight of but the point perceived.
She had never to fight a daily and exhausting battle for her private
opinions as talkative people have, simply because she rarely if ever
expressed an opinion; but her father stood ready always, a post of
resistance to innovation, upon which she could sharpen the claws of her
conclusion silently whenever they required it.

When next she mentions "The Vicar of Wakefield," she says expressly:

"I do not remember what I wrote about it the first time I read it, and I
will not look to see until I have written what I think now, because I
should like to know if I still agree with myself as I was then."

And it is interesting to note how very much she does agree with herself as
she "was then"; the feeling, in fact, is the same, but it has passed from
her heart to her head, and been resolved by the process into positive
opinion, held with conscious knowledge, and delivered with greatly
improved power of expression.

"'The Vicar of Wakefield' makes me think a good deal," she continues, "but
there is no order in my thoughts. There is, however, one thing in the book
that strikes me first and foremost and above all others, which is that the
men were educated and the women were ignorant. It is not to be supposed
that the women preferred to be ignorant, and therefore I presume they were
not allowed the educational advantages upon which the men prided
themselves. The men must accordingly have withheld these advantages by
main force, yet they do not scorn to sneer at the consequences of their
injustice. There is a sneer implied in the vicar's remark about his own
wife: 'She could read any English book without much spelling.' That her
ignorance was not the consequence of incapacity is proved by the evidence
which follows of her intelligence in other matters. Had Mrs. Primrose been
educated she might have continued less lovable than the vicar, but she
would probably have been wiser. The vicar must always have been conscious
of her defects, but had never apparently thought of a remedy, nor does he
dream of preventing a repetition of the same defects in his daughters by
providing them with a better education. He takes their unteachableness for
granted, remarking complacently that an hour of recreation 'was taken up
in innocent mirth between my wife and daughters, and in philosophical
arguments between my son and me,' as if 'innocent mirth' were as much as
he could reasonably expect from such inferior beings as a wife and
daughters must necessarily be. The average school girl of to-day is a
child of light on the subject of her own sex compared with the gentle
vicar, and incapable, even before her education is half over, of the envy
and meanness which the latter thinks it kindest to take a humourous view
of, and of the disingenuousness at which he also smiles as the inevitable
outcome of feminine inferiority--at least _I_ never met a girl in my
position who would not have admired Miss Wilmot's beauty, nor do I know
one who would not answer her father frankly, however embarrassing the
question might be, if he asked her opinion of a possible lover."

The next entry in the book is on the subject of "Mrs. Caudle's Curtain
Lectures," and, like most of the others, it merits attention from the
unexpected view she takes of the position. It does not strike her as being
humourous, but pathetic. She feels the misery of it, and she had already
begun to hold that human misery is either a thing to be remedied or a
sacred subject to be dwelt on in silence; and she considers Mrs. Caudle
entirely with a view to finding a cure for her case.

"The Caudles were petty tradespeople," she says, "respectable in their own
position, but hardly lovable according to our ideas. Mr. Caudle, with meek
persistency, goes out to amuse himself alone when his day's work is done.
Mrs. Caudle's day's work never is done. She has the wearing charge of a
large family, and the anxiety of making both ends meet on a paltry income,
which entails much self denial and sordid parsimony, but is
conscientiously done, if not cheerfully, nevertheless. It is Mr. Caudle,
however, who grumbles, making no allowance for extra pressure of work on
washing days, when she is too busy to hash the cold mutton. The rule of
her life is weariness and worry from morning till night, and for
relaxation in the evening she must sit down and mend the children's
clothes; and even when that is done she goes to bed with the certainty of
being roused from her hard-earned rest by a husband who brings a sickening
odour of bad tobacco and spirits home with him, and naturally her temper
suffers. She knows nothing of love and sympathy; she has no pleasurable
interest in life. Fatigue and worry are succeeded by profound
disheartenment. One can imagine that while she was young, the worn
garments she was wont to mend during those long lonely evenings were often
wet with tears. The dulness must have been deadly, and dulness added to
fatigue time after time ended at last not in tears, but in peevish
irritation, ebullitions of spleen, and ineffectual resistance. The woman
was thoroughly embittered, and the man had to pay the penalty. Whatever
pleasure there might have been in their joint lives he had secured for
himself, leaving her to stagnate for want of a little variety to keep her
feelings flowing wholesomely; and she did stagnate dutifully, but she was
to blame for it. Had she gone out and amused herself with other wives
similarly situated, and had tobacco and beer, if she liked them, every
evening, it would have been better for herself and her husband."

There must have been some system in Evadne's reading, for "The Naggletons"
came immediately after "Mrs. Caudle," and are dismissed curtly enough:

"Vulgar, ill-bred, lower class people," she calls them. "Objectionable to
contemplate from every point of view. But a book which should enlighten
the class whom it describes on the subject of their own bad manners.
_We_ don't nag."

She owed her acquaintance with the next two books she mentions to the
indirect instigation of her father, and she must have read them when she
was about eighteen, and emancipated from schoolroom supervision, but not
yet fairly entered upon the next chapter of her existence; for they are
among the last she notices before she came out.

The date is fixed by an entry which appears on a subsequent page with the
note: "I was presented at court to-day by my mother." After this entry
life becomes more interesting than literature, evidently, for the book
ceases to be a record of reading and thought with an occasional note on
people and circumstances, and becomes just the opposite, viz., a diary of
events interspersed with sketches of character and only a rare allusion to
literature. But, judging by the number and variety and the careful record
kept of the works she read, the six months or so immediately preceding her
presentation must have been a time of the greatest intellectual activity,
her father's influence being, as usual, often apparent as primary
instigator. Once, when they were having coffee out on the lawn after
dinner, he began a discussion in her hearing about books with another
gentleman who was staying in the house, and in the course of it he
happened to praise "Roderick Random" and "Tom Jones" eloquently. He said
they were superior in their own line to anything which the present day has
produced. "They are true to life in every particular," he maintained, "and
not only to the life of those times, but of all time. In fact, you feel as
you read that it is not fiction, but human nature itself that you are
studying; and there is an education in moral philosophy on every page."

Evadne was much impressed, and being anxious to know what an education in
moral philosophy might be, she got "Roderick Random" and "Tom Jones" out
of the library, when she went in that evening, and took them to her own
room to study. They were the two books already referred to as being among
the last she read just before she came out. They did not please her, but
she waded through them from beginning to end conscientiously,
nevertheless, and then she made her remarks.

Of "Roderick Random" she wrote:

"The hero is a kind of king-can-do-no-wrong young man; if a thing were not
right in itself he acted as if the pleasure of doing it sanctified it to
his use sufficiently. After a career of vice, in which he revels without
any sense of personal degradation, he marries an amiable girl named
Narcissa, and everyone seems to expect that such a union of vice and
virtue would be productive of the happiest consequences. In point of fact
he should have married Miss Williams, for whom he was in every respect a
suitable mate. If anything, Miss Williams was the better of the two, for
Roderick sinned in weak wantonness, while she only did so of necessity.
They repent together, but she is married to an unsavoury manservant named
Strap as a reward; while Roderick considers himself entitled to the
peerless Narcissa. Miss Williams, moreover, becomes Narcissa's
confidential friend, and the whole disgraceful arrangement is made
possible by Narcissa herself, who calmly accepts these two precious
associates at their own valuation, and admits them to the closest intimacy
without any knowledge of their true characters and early lives. The fine
flavour of real life in the book seems to me to be of the putrid kind
which some palates relish, perhaps; but it cannot be wholesome, and it may
be poisonous. The moral is: Be as vicious as you please, but prate of
virtue."

"Tom Jones" she dismissed with greater contempt, if possible:

"Another young man," she wrote, "steeped in vice, although acquainted with
virtue. He also marries a spotless heroine. Such men marrying are a danger
to the community at large. The two books taken together show well the
self-interest and injustice of men, the fatal ignorance and slavish apathy
of women; and it may be good to know these things, but it is not
agreeable."

The ventilation of free discussion would doubtless have been an advantage
to Evadne at this impressionable period, when she was still, as it were,
more an intellectual than a human being, travelling upon her head rather
than upon her heart--so to speak--and one cannot help speculating about
the probable modification it would have wrought in some of her opinions.
Unfortunately, however, her family was one of those in which the
_clôture_ is rigorously applied when any attempt is made to introduce
ideas which are not already old and accustomed. It was as if her people
were satisfied that by enforcing silence they could prevent thought.


CHAPTER IV.


It is interesting to trace the steps by which Evadne advanced: one item of
knowledge accidentally acquired compelling her to seek another, as in the
case of some disease mentioned in a story-book, the nature of which she
could not comprehend without studying the construction of the organ it
affected. But haphazard seems to have determined her pursuits much more
than design as a rule. Some people in after life, who liked her views,
said they saw the guiding hand of Providence directing her course from the
first; but those who opposed her said it was the devil; and others again,
in idleness or charity, or the calm neutrality of indifference, set it all
down to the Inevitable, a fashionable first cause at this time, which is
both comprehensive, convenient, and inoffensive, since it may mean
anything, and so suits itself to everybody's prejudices.

But she certainly made her first acquaintance with anatomy and physiology
without design of her own. Her mother sent her up to a lumber room one day
to hunt through an old box of books for a story she wanted her to read to
the children, and the box happened to contain some medical works, which
Evadne peeped into during her search. A plate first attracted her
attention, and then she read a little to see what the plate meant, and
then she read a little more because the subject fascinated her, and the
lucid language of a great scientific man, certain of his facts, satisfied
her, and carried her on insensibly. She continued standing until one leg
tired, then she rested on the other; then she sat on the hard edge of the
box, and finally she subsided on to the floor, in the dust, where she was
found hours later, still reading.

"My dear child, where _have_ you been?" her mother exclaimed
irritably, when at last she appeared. "I sent you to get a book to read to
the children."

"There it is, mother--'The Gold Thread'" Evadne answered. "But I cannot
read to the children until after their tea. They were at their lessons
this morning, and we are all going out this afternoon." She had neither
forgotten the children nor the time they wanted their book, which was
eminently characteristic. She never did forget other people's interests,
however much she might be absorbed by the pleasure of her own pursuits.

"And I found three other books, mother, that I should like to have; may
I?" she continued. "They are all about our bones and brains, and the
circulation of the blood, and digestion. It says in one of them that
muriatic acid, the chemical agent by which the stomach dissolves the food,
is probably obtained from muriate of soda, which is common salt contained
in the blood. Isn't that interesting? And it says that pleasure--not
excitement, you know--is the result of the action of living organs, and it
goes on to explain it. Shall I read it to you?"

"My dear child, what nonsense have you got hold of now?" Mrs. Frayling
exclaimed, laughing.

"It is all here, mother," Evadne remonstrated, tapping her books. "Do look
at them."

Mrs. Frayling turned over a few pages with dainty fingers: "Tracing from
without inward, the various coverings of the brain are," she read in one.
"The superior extremity consists of the shoulder, the arm, the forearm,
and the hand," she saw in another. "Dr. Harley also confirms the opinion
of M. Chaveau that the sugar is not destroyed in any appreciable quantity,
during its passage through the tissues," she learned from the third. "Oh,
how nasty!" she ejaculated, alluding to the dust on the cover. "And what a
state you are in yourself! You seem to have a perfect mania for grubbing
up old books. What do you want with them? You cannot possibly understand
them. Why, _I_ can't! It is all vanity, you know. Here, take them
away."

"But, mother, I want to keep them. They can't do me any harm if I don't
understand them."

"You really _are_ tiresome, Evadne," her mother rejoined. "It is
quite bad taste to be so persistent."

"I am sorry, mother; I apologize. But I can read them, I suppose, as you
don't see anything objectionable in them."

"Don't _you_ see, dear child, that I am trying to write a letter? How
do you suppose I can do so while you stand chattering there at my elbow!
You won't understand the books, but you are too obstinate for anything,
and you had better take them and try. I don't expect to hear anything more
about them," she added complacently, as she resumed her letter. Nor did
she, but she felt the effect of them strongly in after years.

When Evadne went out for a ride with three of her sisters that afternoon
her mind was full to overflowing of her morning studies, and she would
liked to have shared such interesting information with them, but they
discouraged her.

"Isn't it curious," she began, "our skulls are not all in one piece when
we're born--"

"I call it simply _nasty_" said Julia. She was the one who screamed
at a mouse.

"You'll be a bore if you don't mind," cried Evelyn, who monopolized the
conversation, as a rule.

Barbara politely requested her to "Shurrup!" a word of the boys which she
permitted herself to borrow in the exuberance of her spirits and the
sanctity of private life whenever Evadne threatened, as on the present
occasion, to be "_too_ kind."

Evadne turned back then and left them, not because they vexed her, but
because she wanted to have her head to the wind and her thick brown hair
blown back out of her eyes, and full leisure to reflect upon her last
acquisition as she cantered home happily.


CHAPTER V.


Evadne was never a great reader in the sense of being omnivorous in her
choice of books, but she became a very good one. She always had a solid
book in hand, and some standard work of fiction also; but she read both
with the utmost deliberation, and with intellect clear and senses
unaffected by anything. After studying anatomy and physiology, she took up
pathology as a matter of course, and naturally went on from thence to
prophylactics and therapeutics, but was quite unharmed, because she made
no personal application of her knowledge as the coarser mind masculine of
the ordinary medical student is apt to do. She read of all the diseases to
which the heart is subject, and thought of them familiarly as "cardiac
affections," without fancying she had one of them; and she obtained an
extraordinary knowledge of the digestive processes and their ailments
without realizing, that her own might ever be affected. Of course, if people
will martyr themselves to keep up appearances, and want to live in a
fashionable neighbourhood, they will not find town life either cheap or
pleasant. But if they are content to live outside the aristocratic
radius, they can find many a comfortable villa, with baths (hot and cold),
and back gardens which may easily be converted into rustic retreats
(I would especially recommend rhododendrons). If you are also not above
omnibuses (taking a cab only when it rains, and selecting a driver who does
not look as if he would swear), and are satisfied to go to the pit,
then I feel sure London is not only as cheap as the obscurest village,
but gives you a far greater return for your money. Newly-married couples
in especial often make a great mistake in settling in the country for
the sake of economy. It is only in the town that they can really lead a
tranquil, happy life, enriched with all the resources of culture and
civilisation.

I am, Sir, Yours obediently, AGATHA P. ROBINS.

1890.

SIR,--The failure of marriage is too apparent to be glossed over any
longer. "A.Y.Z." and "A Woman of No Importance" deserve the thanks of every
honest heart for their brave outspokenness. Too long has this mediaeval
monstrosity cramped our lives. The beautiful word "Home" conceals a doll's
house or whitewashes a sepulchre. Marriage is misery in two syllables.
How can people be happy chained together like galley-slaves? It contradicts
all we know of human nature.

Love, free as air, at sight of human ties Spreads his light wings
and in a moment flies.

Away with this effete Pharisaism! Let us realise the infinite possibilities
of happiness latent in the blessing of existence. The world is longing
for freedom to love truly, nobly, wisely, many.

I am, Sir, Yours obediently, AGATHA P. ROBINS.

1891.

SIR,--I can testify by personal experience to the fact that the manners
of our children are deteriorating. Coming up to the Metropolis for a day's
excursion last Bank Holiday, I could not walk anywhere without overhearing
ribald remarks--and, what was worse, at my own expense--even from
respectably dressed children.

Let those look to it who
Teach the young idea how to shoot.

I thank Heaven my lot has always been cast in a sweet Devonshire village,
where the contagion of ill-conduct has not yet spread among the juvenile
population.

I am, Sir, Yours obediently, AGATHA P. ROBINS.

1892.

SIR,--Have your flippant correspondents, "Polygamist" and "Illegal
Brother-in-Law," any conception of the thousands (ay, tens of thousands)
of hearts that are, languishing in misery because they cannot marry their
deceased sisters' husbands? And all because of a text which is not to
be found in the Bible! Fie upon you, ye so-called Bishops,
Dressed in a little brief authority.

Abolish this unrighteous law, I say, and let floods of sunshine and
happiness into a million darkened homes.

I am, Sir, Yours obediently, AGATHA P. ROBINS.

  But, after all, is it fair to juxtaposit Agatha's letters?

What if one were to collect the leaders of any newspaper on any
given subject, before or after any event?

  I have met Agatha P. Robins
  in many other places at many other times.
  Sometimes she is interested in the best substitute for shirt-buttons
or for Christianity, sometimes in the problem of living on a thousand
a year, sometimes in the abolition of stag-hunting.

SIGNS OF THE SILLY SEASON.

A gooseberry that groweth green and great, A serpent round the sea
serenely curled, A lonely soul that fails to find a mate, A boy
redundant in a teeming world,
A sister yearning for dead sisters' shoes, A life that longs for
death, or after-life, A ghost, a mistress whom her maids abuse, An
erring judge, a French or German wife,
A child's long ear or holiday, a slum, A man gone bald, or drunk,
a coin's design-- Should things like these across your paper come,
Conclude the Silly Season will be fine.

It is difficult to trace exactly when "The Season" ends and "The Silly
Season" begins. It needs the finest discrimination to know when the adjective
comes in--without a worldly training, indeed, you cannot tell the one from
the other. But the past masters of the social art proclaim that "The Season"
is dead, and we bow our heads in reverence. Yes, it is vanished, that focus
of futilities, that wonderful Season, that phantasmagoria of absurdities,
of abortive ambitions, over which a hundred humourists have made merry:
it is dead, with its splendours and jubilations and processions--dead
as the ropes of roses in St. James's street. Often have I debated the potency
of satire, again and again have I suggested to learned friends a scientific
and historical investigation of the popular belief that satire moves
mountains or even molehills. But they agree only in shrinking from the
task. To take only the last half-century: we have had one supreme satirist
who harped eternally on the failings of fashion and the vanity of things.
In his novels society saw itself reflected in all its attitudes and
postures and posings. Not one meanness or folly escaped. What Professor
Huxley has done for the crayfish, that Thackeray did for the Snob. He studied
him lovingly, he dissected him, he classified every variety of him. A
thousand disciples, less gifted but equally remorseless, followed in
the Master's footsteps.
"Punch" took up the tale, and week by week repeated the joke.
It was heard in drawing-room recitations to the accompaniment of pianos;
it even went on the stage. Ladies rushed into print to expose foibles men
never guessed, and to say of the sex at large what less gifted women say
only of their personal friends. For years we have never ceased for a moment
to hear the lash of the whip, the swish of the birch, the whizz of the
arrow, the ping of the bullet, the thwack of the flail, the thud of the
hammer, the buzzing of the hornet. And what does it all amount to? How
much execution has been done? Is society purer or nobler? Have less daughters
been sold at Vanity Fair, or more invitations been sent to poor relatives?
Has Jones got better manners or champagne? Is Mrs. Ponsonby de Tomkins
more distant to duchesses?

Did my Lady Clara Vere de Vere consider whether Hood's seamstress was at
work on her court gown? Is any one wiser or kinder or honester for all
the literary pother? Are the diplomatic corps less maculate than in the
days of Grenville Murray?

Have we not, on the contrary, cast on our own imperfections the complaisance
of an eye educated in the superior imperfections of our neighbours?

Lo, here is a new satirist arisen, Sarah Jeannette Duncan, who, in
"The Simple Adventures of a Memsahib," sketches Anglo-Indian society
in a manner that would not discredit Thackeray--and with something,
too, of Thackeray's haunting sense of the pathos of the dead Past
and the flying Present.

But will the memsahib of to-morrow take warning by the fate of Helen
Peachey, who went out to India in all her bridal bravery, in all
her youth and freshness?

Will she escape exchanging the placidity of Fra Angelico's piping cherubim
for the petulance and ring-shadowed eyes of the seasoned matron?

Will she be on her guard against shrinking to the prejudices and
flirtations of a coterie, dying to all finer and higher issues?

Will she worship virtue more and viceroys less? Alas, I fear me not--no more
than Pagett, M. P., will leave off talking solar myths, or foolish things
cease to be done under the deodars.

Will Hogarth keep wine-bibbers from the bottle, or can you make men
sober by acts of "L'Assommoir"?

Will "Madame Bovary" stay a sister's fall, or "Sapho" repel an
eligible young man?

Will "The Dunciad" keep one dunce from scribbling, or "Le Tartufe"
elevate a single ecclesiastic?

As well expect "long firms" to run short, and the moths to avoid
the footlights, and the fool to cease from the land.

"How gay they were, and how luxurious, and how important in their little
day! How gorgeous were the attendants of their circumstances, on
the box with a crest upon their turbans!

--there is a firm in Calcutta that supplies beautiful crests. And now, let
me think! some of them in the Circular Road Cemetery--cholera, fever,
heat-apoplexy; some of them under the Christian daisies of
England--probably abscess of the liver."

Yes, madam, we know it all, we recognize the Thackeray touch. "And soon,
very soon, our brief day, too, will have died in a red sunset
behind clustering palms, and all its little doings and graspings
and pushings, all its petty scandals and surmises and sensations,
will echo further and further back into the night."

True, most true, and pity 't is 't is true.

But meantime we will go on with our little doings and graspings and
pushings--yes, madam, even you and I who have realised the vanity
of all things; for the knowledge thereof--this, too, is vanity.

"And it was all a striving and a striving, and an ending in nothing,
and no one knew what they had lived and worked for."

Yea, so it is, Frau Schreiner.

And still we are living on--and oh!
how hard we work (on African farms or otherwhere) to express
artistically our sense of the futility of life!

VANITAS VANITATUM.

A rich voluptuous languor of dim pain, A dreamy sense of passionate
regret, Delicious tears and some sweet, sad refrain, Some throbbing,
vague, and tender canzonet, That mourns for life so real and so
vain, Wherein we glory while our eyes are wet.

I am afraid, if I pursue this investigation, I shall end by believing
that satire is simply an aesthetic satisfaction--the last luxury
of the sinful.

Ridicule, we are always told, is a tremendous destructive--an atmosphere
in which nothing can live. But is it?

Christianity, Kings, and War are little the worse for the jets of mockery
that have been playing on them for two centuries. In Swift's day the wits
at the coffee-houses regarded religion as a farce that even the Augurs could
not keep up any longer without public winking; yet Diderot and
the Encyclopaedia are dead, and the bishops we have always with us! It
was thought War could not survive Voltaire's remark that a monarch picks
up a parcel of men who have nothing to do, dresses them in blue cloth
at two shillings a yard, and marches away with them to glory--but here
is our Henley singing a song of the sword, while all our novelists are
looking to their weapons.
Despite Heine's sarcasm, the collection of English kings is as incomplete
as ever.

A passing fad can, perhaps, be made to pass along a little faster, but it
only makes room for another. True, "Punch" killed the craze for sunflowers
and long necks; but then "Punch" invented it.

It was merely made to be destroyed brilliantly, like a Chinese cracker or
a Roman candle.

Folly is older than "Punch's" jokes, and will survive them.
Snobbery and self-seeking, pettiness and stupidity, envy, hate, and
all uncharitableness, were no secret to the mummies in the British
Museum.

"Unto the place whither the rivers go, thither they go again." Are there
not a hundred sayings in Ecclesiastes and Menander, in Horace and
Molière, as apt to-day as though fresh from the typewriter? One
of the learned friends to whom I proposed the thesis contended that
Perseus and Juvenal at least are out of date. But this was merely
my learned friend's ignorance. Is it not the truest piety to conclude
that those things which the ridicule of the ages cannot kill deserve
their immortality--that Kings, War, and Christianity play a part
in the scheme of creation, and that even snobbery and jobbery, folly
and fraud, rouge and respectability, and horse-racing, bounders and
politicians, the prize-ring and the marriage market, are all necessary
to the fun of Vanity Fair!

They are thrown up by the flux of things for Honesty to set his
heel on. So houp-la! On with the dance! louder, ye fiddlers! faster,
O merry-go-round!

Nay, not so glum, ye moralists and satirists, philanthropists and
preachers; link hands all--_ducdame, ducdame!

_--and thank the gods for keeping you in occupation.

What should we do without our fools? The question seems pat for a Silly
Season correspondence.

Come, gather, fools all. Ye could not be better employed than in
answering it.

For, mark, brother-satirists mine, you cannot kill the Silly Season
correspondence.

And you cannot kill Ghosts.

Perhaps because they do not exist.

No other dead thing is so tenacious of life as your ghost.

If ridicule were really fatal, we should have given up the ghost
long since.

Consider the fires of burlesque through which he has passed unscathed.

What indignity has been spared him? Now at last he is to encounter the
supreme test--he is to be taken seriously.

The Psychical Society has the matter in hand--or should one say, the
spirit?

And Mr. Stead, who believes in himself in a way that is refreshing in these
atheistic times, proposes either to rehabilitate the ghost or to lay
him for ever. But this latter is beyond the might of man or society.

And you cannot kill Grouse. At least I can't. I sometimes suspect there
are others of the population equally incompetent, and perhaps still
less interested in battues; though the Twelfth figures in everybody's
calendar like a Church festival, and the newspapers devote leaders
to it, and the comic papers have pictures, and sometimes even jokes
about it, and you would think the whole population of these islands
struck work and went a-shooting with gillies and dogs and appropriate
costume.

But that is the craftiness of the editors, from Mr. Buckle and Mr. Yates
down to the editor of the _Halfpenny Democrat_--they make the
humblest of us feel we are in the best sets, so we all come up to
town for the season, and are seen at three parties a night, and we
ride in the Park, and we go to Henley and Goodwood to a man; and
we yacht at Cowes, and pot grouse in Scotland--still with the same
wonderful unanimity; and we hunt with the hounds, and run with the
salmon, and keep our Christmas in country houses, and come up smiling
for the New Year, ready to recommence the same old Sisyphean round.

I suppose the people who really do these things could be exhibited in the
National Gallery, but the space their doings fill is incalculable.

And you cannot kill Adelphi Melodrama. But I have a piece of advice to offer
to the Italian gentlemen who have done so much for our stage.

It is, that they run their theatre on a principal of duality
befitting their joint management.

Let it be the home of Melodrama and Burlesque, the same play serving
for both _genres_.

Let, say, Mr.

Sims--who is so clever in either species--write the pieces--each
melodrama being its own burlesque.

An extra dash of colour here, an ambiguous line there, with a serious
meaning in the melodrama and a droll in the burlesque, will secure
the brothers two audiences, and after eight o'clock I guarantee
standing room only.

The simple will come to weep and thrill, the cynics to laugh and chuckle.
And everybody will be happy.

In sooth, is not the world divided into those who take the great cosmic drama
seriously, and those who treat it as farce? On the one hand the workers
and the fighters, on the other the journalists, politicians, and men about
town. Yet have the workers and the fighters the nobler part. A genuine
emotion, an earnest conviction, vitalises life. The day-dreams of hungry
youth are better than the dinners of prosaic maturity, and a simple maiden
in her flower is worth a hundred epigrams. I had rather be an Adelphi god
than a smoking-room satyr.

Who shall blame the melodramatist? He writes for those to whom
literature makes no appeal. Literature is a freemasonry of the highest
minds, and that poetry is Greek to the masses I should scarcely have
thought a "Question at Issue" demanding substantiation from Mr. George
Gissing. Mr.
Gosse must know that the eclipse which darkened England at the passing
of Alfred Tennyson was invented by the newspapers and the poets who
outraced one another to weep upon his tomb.

Look upon Mr.

Booth's map of East London, with its coloured lines showing the
swarms of human beings who live ignobly and die obscurely, and
realise for yourself of what import the cult of beautiful form is
to these human ant-heaps.

Walk down the populous Whitechapel Road of a Saturday night, or
traverse the long slimy alleys of Rotherhithe among the timber
wharves, and discover how many of your countrymen and contemporaries
are living neither in your country nor in your century.

To Mr. Henry James, the dull undertone of pain and sorrow is part of the
music of London--such harmony is in aesthetic souls.

But the dull and the gross, who only suffer and endure, the muddy vesture
of decay closes them in and they cannot hear it.

What shall literature do for these?

  
  "_Papa--Papa--Papa_,"--they sang--"_Papa says--that we--that
we--that we are little devils! and so we are--we are--we are and ever
shall be--world without end_."

"_I am a chip_," Diavolo trilled exquisitely; "_I am a chip_."

"_Thou art a chip--Thou art a chip_," Angelica responded.

"_We are both chips_," they concluded harmoniously--"_chips of the
old--old block! And as it was in the beginning is now and ever shall be,
world without end. Amen!_"

"You sang that last phrase flat you--_pulp!_" cried Angelica.

"I can't both sing and play," Diavolo protested.

"You'll say you can't eat and breathe next," she retorted, giving his hair
a tug.

"What did you do that for?" he demanded.

"Just to waken you up," she answered.

"Are they always like this?" the prince asked, much edified.

"This is nothing," groaned Mr. Hamilton-Wells.

"Nothing if it is not genius," the prince suggested gracefully.

"The ineffectual genius of the nineteenth century I fancy, which betrays
itself by strange incongruities and contrasts of a violent kind, but is
otherwise unproductive," Mrs. Orton Beg whispered to Mr. Frayling
incautiously.

Lady Adeline looked up: "I could not help hearing," she said.

"Oh, Adeline, I am sorry!" Mrs. Orton Beg exclaimed.

"_I_ thank you," said Lady Adeline, sighing. "Courtly phrases are
pleasant plums, even to latter-day palates which are losing all taste for
such dainties; but they are not nourishing. I would rather know my
children to be merely naughty, and spend my time in trying to make them
good, than falsely flatter myself that there is anything great in them,
and indulge them on that plea, until I had thoroughly confirmed them in
faults which I ought to have been rigorously repressing."

"You're right there," said Mr. Frayling; "but all the same, you'll be able
to make a good deal of that boy, or I'm much mistaken. And as for
Angelica, why, when she is at the head of an establishment of her own she
will require all her smartness. But teach her housekeeping, Lady Adeline;
that is the thing for _her_."

Evadne was sitting near her father, not taking part in the conversation,
but attending to it; and Lady Adeline, happening to look at her at this
moment, saw something which gave her "pause to ponder." Evadne's face
recalled somewhat the type of old Egypt, Egypt with an intellect added.
Her eyes were long and apparently narrow, but not so in reality--a trick
she had of holding them half shut habitually gave a false impression of
their size, and veiled the penetration of their glance also, which was
exceptionally keen. In moments of emotion, however, she would open them to
the full unexpectedly, and then the effect was startling and peculiar; and
it was one of these transient flashes which surprised Lady Adeline when
Mr. Frayling made that last remark. It was a mere gleam, but it revealed
Evadne to Lady Adeline as a flash of lightning might have revealed a
familiar landscape on a dark night. She saw what she expected to see, but
all transformed, and she saw something beyond, which she did not expect,
and could neither comprehend nor forget. So far she had only thought of
Evadne as a nice, quiet little thing with nothing particular in her; from
that evening, however, she suspended her opinion, suspecting something,
but waiting to know more. Evadne was then in her eighteenth year, but not
yet out.


CHAPTER VII.


Mrs. Orton Beg was a sister of Mrs. Frayling's and an oracle to Evadne.
Mrs. Frayling was fair, plump, sweet, yielding, commonplace, prolific;
Mrs. Orton Beg was a barren widow, slender, sincere, silent, firm, and
tender. Mrs. Frayling, for lack of insight, was unsympathetic, Mrs. Orton
Beg was just the opposite; and she and Evadne understood each other, and
were silent together in the most companionable way in the world.

When Evadne went to her own room on the evening made memorable by the
twins' famous anthem, she was haunted by that word "ineffectual," which
Mrs. Orton Beg had used. "Ineffectual genius"--there was something
familiar as well as high sounding in the epithet; it recalled an idea with
which she was already acquainted; what was it? She opened her "Commonplace
Book," and sat with her pen in her hand, cogitating comfortably. She had
no need to weary her fresh young brain with an irritating pursuit of what
she wanted; she had only to wait, and it would recur to her. And presently
it came. Her countenance brightened. She bent over the book and wrote a
few lines, read them when she had blotted them, and was satisfied.

"I have it," she wrote. "Shelley = genius of the nineteenth
century--'Beautiful and ineffectual angel, beating in the void his
luminous wings in vain.'--_Matthew Arnold_."

When she had done this she took up a book, went to the fire, settled
herself in an easy-chair, and began to read. The book was "Ruth," by Mrs.
Gaskell, and she was just finishing it. When she had done so she went back
to the table, and copied out the following paragraph:

"The daily life into which people are born, and into which they are
absorbed before they are aware, forms chains which only one in a hundred
has moral strength enough to despise, and to break when the right time
comes--when an inward necessity for independent action arises, which is
superior to all outward conventionalities."

She stopped here, and pushed the volume away from her. It was the only
passage in it which she cared to remember.

She had lost the confidence of the child by this time, and become humbly
doubtful of her own opinion; and instead of summing up "Ruth" boldly, as
she would have done the year before, she paused now a moment to reflect
before she wrote with diffidence:

"The principal impression this book has made upon me is that Mrs. Gaskell
must have been a very lovable woman."

[Footnote: George Eliot thought so too, years before Evadne was born, and
expressed the thought in a letter in which she also prophesied that "Ruth"
would not live through a generation. The impression the book made upon
Evadne is another proof of prescience in the great writer.]

"The story seems to me long drawn out, and of small significance. It is
full of food for the heart, but the head goes empty away, and both should
be satisfied by a work of fiction, I think. But perhaps it is my own mood
that is at fault. At another time I might have found gems in it which now
in my dulness I have failed to perceive."

Somebody knocked at the door as she blotted the words.

"Come in, auntie," she said, as if in answer to an accustomed signal; and
Mrs. Orton Beg entered in a long, loose, voluminously draped white
wrapper.

Evadne drew an easy-chair to the fire for her.

"Sit down, auntie," she said, "and be cosey. You are late to-night. I was
afraid you were not coming."

Mrs. Orton Beg was in the habit of coming to Evadne's room every evening
when she was at Fraylingay, to chat, or sit silently sociable over the
fire with her before saying goodnight.

"Do I ever fail you?" she asked, smiling.

"No. But I have been afraid of the fatal fascination of that great fat
foreign prince. He singled you out for special attention, and I have been
jealous."

"Well, you need not have been, for he singled me out in order to talk
about you. He thinks you are a nice child. You interest him."

"Defend me!" said Evadne. "But you mistake me, dear aunt. It was not of
him I was jealous, but of you. The fat prince is nothing to me, and you
are a very great deal."

Mrs. Orton Beg's face brightened at the words, but she continued to look
into the fire silently for some seconds after Evadne had spoken, and made
no other visible sign of having heard them.

"I don't think I ought to encourage you to sit up so late," she said
presently. "Lady Adeline has just been asking me who it is that burns the
midnight oil up here so regularly."

"Lady Adeline must be up very late herself to see it," said Evadne. "I
suppose those precious twins disturb her. I wish she would let me take
entire charge of them when she is here. It would be a relief, I should
think!"

"It would be an imposition," said Mrs. Orton Beg. "But you are a brave
girl, Evadne. _I_ would not venture."

"Oh, they delight me," Evadne answered. "And I know them well enough now
to forestall them."

"When I told Lady Adeline that these were your rooms," her aunt pursued,
"she said something about a lily maid high in her chamber up a tower to
the east guarding the sacred shield of Lancelot."

"Singularly inappropriate," said Evadne. "For my tower is south and west,
thank Heaven."

"And there isn't a symptom of Lancelot," her aunt concluded.

"Young ladies don't guard sacred shields nowadays," said Evadne.

"No," answered her aunt, glancing over her shoulder at the open book on
the table. "They have substituted the sacred 'Commonplace Book'--full of
thought, I fancy."

"You speak regretfully, auntie; but isn't it better to think and be happy,
than to die of atrophy for a sentiment?"

"I don't think it better to extinguish all sentiment. Life without
sentiment would be so bald."

"But life with that kind of sentiment doesn't last, it seems, and nobody
is benefited by it. It is extreme misery to the girl herself, and she dies
young, leaving a legacy of lifelong regret and bitterness to her friends.
I should think it small comfort to become the subject for a poem or a
picture at such a price. And surely, auntie, sentiments which are silly or
dangerous would be better extinguished?"

Mrs. Orton Beg smiled at the fire enigmatically.

"But the poem or the picture may become a lasting benefit to mankind," she
suggested presently.

"Humph!" said Evadne.

"You doubt it?"

"Well, you see, auntie, there are two ways of looking at it. When you
first come across the poem or the picture which perpetuates the sentiment
that slew the girl, and beautifies it, you feel a glow all over, and fancy
you would like to imitate her, and think that you would deserve great
credit for it if you did. But when you come to consider, there is nothing
very noble, after all, in a hopeless passion for an elderly man of the
world who is past being benefited by it, even if he could reciprocate it.
Elaine should have married a man of her own age, and made him happy. She
would have done some good in her time so, and been saved from setting us a
bad example. I think it a sin to make unwholesome sentiments attractive."

"Then Lancelot does not charm you?"

"No," said Evadne thoughtfully. "I should have preferred the king."

"Ah, yes. Because he was the nobler, the more ideal man?"

"No, not exactly," Evadne answered. "But because he was the more
wholesome."

"My dear child, are you speaking literally?"

"Yes, auntie."

"Good Heavens!" Mrs. Orton Beg ejaculated softly. "The times _have_
changed."

"Yes, we know more now," Evadne answered tranquilly.

"You are fulfilling the promise of your youth, Evadne," her aunt remarked
after a thoughtful pause. "I remember reading a fairy tale of Jean
Ingelow's aloud to you children in the nursery long ago. I forget the name
of it, but it was the one into which 'One morning, oh, so early,' comes;
and you started a controversy as to whether, speaking of the dove, when
the lark said 'Give us glory,' she should have made answer, 'Give us
peace' or 'peas.' The latter, you maintained, as being the more natural,
and the most sensible."

"I must have been a horrid little prig in those days," said Evadne,
smiling. "But, auntie, there can be no peace without plenty. And I think I
would rather be a sensible realist than a foolish idealist. You mean that
you think me too much of a utilitarian, do you not?"

"You are in danger, I think."

"Utilitarianism is Bentham's _greatest happiness principle_, is it
not?" Evadne asked.

"Yes--greatest human happiness," her aunt replied.

"Well, I don't know how that can be dangerous in principle. But, of
course, I know nothing of such questions practically. Only I do seem to
perceive that you must rest on a solid basis of real advantages before you
can reach up to ideal perfection with any chance of success."

"You seem to be very wide awake to-night, Evadne," Mrs. Orton Beg
rejoined. "This is the first I have heard of your peculiar views."

"Oh, I am a kind of owl, I think, auntie," Evadne answered apologetically.
"You see, I never had anything to do in the schoolroom that I could not
manage when I was half asleep, and so I formed a habit of dozing over my
lessons by day, and waking up when I came to bed at night. Having a room
of my own always has been a great advantage. I have been secure all along
of a quiet time at night for reading and thought--and that is real life,
auntie, isn't it? I don't care to talk much, as a rule, do you? I like to
listen and watch people. But I always wake up at this time of the night,
and I feel as if I could be quite garrulous now when everybody else is
going to sleep. But, auntie, don't use such an ominous expression as
'peculiar views' about anything I say, _please_; 'views' are always
in ill odour, and peculiarities, even peculiar perfections, would isolate
one, and that I _do_ dread. It would be awful to be out of sympathy
with one's fellow-creatures, and have them look suspiciously at one; and
it would be no comfort to me to know that want of sympathy is the proof of
a narrow nature, and that suspicion is the inevitable outcome of ignorance
and stupidity. I don't want to despise my fellow-creatures. I would rather
share their ignorance and conceit and be sociable than find myself
isolated even by a very real superiority. The one would be pleasant
enough, I should think; the other pain beyond all bearing of it."

Mrs. Orton Beg's heart contracted with a momentary fear for her niece, but
she dismissed it promptly.

"The room to yourself has been a doubtful advantage, I fancy," she said.
"It has made you theoretical. But you will lose all that by and by. And in
the meantime, you must remember that in such matters we have small choice.
We are born with superior or inferior faculties, and must make use of
them, such as they are, to become inferior cooks or countesses or superior
ditto, as the case may be. But there are always plenty of one's own kind,
whichever it is, to consort with. Birds of a feather, you know. You need
not be afraid of being isolated."

"You are thinking of ordinary faculties, auntie. I was thinking of
extraordinary. But even with ordinary ones we are hampered. Birds of a
feather would flock together if they could, of course, but then they can't
always; and suppose, being superior, you find yourself forced to associate
with inferior cooks of your kind, what then?"

"Be their queen."

"Which, unless you were a queen of hearts, would really amount to being an
object of envy and dislike, and that brings us back to the point from
which we started."

"Evadne, you talk like a book; go to bed!" Mrs. Orton Beg exclaimed,
laughing.

"It is you who have made me talk, then," Evadne rejoined promptly, "and I
feel inclined to ask now, with all proper respect, what has come to you?
It must be the prince!"

"Yes, it must be the prince!" Mrs. Orton Beg responded, raising her
slender white hand to smother a yawn. "And it must be good-night, too--or
rather, good-morning! Just look at the clock. It is nearly three."


CHAPTER VIII.


The next morning all the guests left Fraylingay, and the family there
settled into their accustomed grooves. Evadne and her father walked and
rode, conversing together as usual, he enjoying the roll and rumble and
fine flavour of his own phrase-making amazingly, and she also impressed by
the roll and rumble. Did you ever see a more modern figure than Tintoretto's
portrait of himself, the elderly man in a frock-coat who looks on at
his own wonderful picture of St. Mark descending to rescue a Christian
slave? An Academician or a new English Art Clubbite who had done
only one tiny corner of this picture would so swell as to the head that
his laurel-wreath wouldn't fit him any longer. There's no ambition
nowadays--Degas, Whistler, yes. But for the rest--dwarfs. Modern improvements
indeed! Science may improve, but not art. Art, like religion,
is an absolute in life--nobody will ever paint better than Velasquez,
write better than Shakespeare, or pray better than the Psalmist.
Science is the variable--always on the go; and when we think of progress
it is just as well that we foolishly keep our eye on the machine-room."

"Won't you have a drink?"

I broke in, seizing the first opportunity.

"Thanks! What's that book?"
"'Olympia's Journal'!

It's all about Olympia's husband, she married him to write
about him--he was such 'good copy.'"
I had unchained a torrent. "Novelists ought never to be introduced into
novels," burst forth the Young Fogey. "The subject-matter of novelists
is real normal life, and novelists are neither real nor normal. They are
monsters whose function in life is to observe other people's
lives. For one novelist to make copy of another is like cannibalism.

"If the psychology of the novelist, who is the student of other people's
psychology, is to be studied, where are you to stop? Why not study the
peculiarities of the novelist who studies the novelist, of the
reflector of life who reflects the reflector of life--nay, of the critic
who reflects upon the reflection of the reflector? This modern mania
for picking ourselves to pieces is only the old childish desire 'to
see the wheels go wound.' People were much better in the old days when
they didn't bother so much how their wheels went round. I always sympathised
with the indignant old lady who came to my schoolmaster when our class began
to take up physiology, and protested that she wasn't going to have her boy
learn what was in his inside--it was indecent. People are not made healthier
by knowing how their functions work; animals never study physiology, and
plants blossom without knowing anything at all about anything. Knowledge
only generates a morbid fussiness, as with Mr.
Jerome's celebrated Cockney who discovered himself to be possessed
of every ailment in the medical dictionary except housemaid's
knee. And to learn what is in your mental inside is equally indecent and
equally discomposing. 'I have never thought about thinking,' said
the wise Goethe. No one can go through a treatise on insanity and
come out as sane as he started. And there is an even more insidious
way in which this human vivisection operates for evil. People now forgive
their friends--they call their eccentricities 'pathological,' and endure
instead of discouraging them. I had two letters this very morning.
'Poor A!' said B.: 'his vanity has ceased to offend me--I feel it is
pathological.' 'Poor B!' said A.: 'it is impossible to resent his
egotism--it is simply pathological.'
"This scientific Christianity wouldn't be so bad if people didn't condone
their own faults, too. They can't get up early--it's heredity. The early
bird who caught the worm must have had a grandparent who stayed out late.

Are they lazy? Their uncle was a country parson. They are like the man who
refused to give charity because he had such expensive tastes. To acquiesce
in your own weaknesses because they are hereditary, without
making an effort to eradicate them, is bad science as well as bad morals.

Among the items given you by heredity do not forget the potentiality of
self-improvement by inward struggle. No one says, 'I can't speak French,
and I sha'n't try, because my father was an illiterate
Irishman.' Self-knowledge tends to weaken self-discipline, foster
self-indulgence, and corrode character."
"But what of the old Greek maxim 'Know thyself'?"
"Old Greek sophistry! Knowing requires a subject to know and an object to
be known.

You can't be subject and object too--introspection is a self-contradiction.
Hasn't every one noticed that everybody else fails to discover himself
in a novel or a sermon, though his lineaments are painted
down to the minutest details of wart and mole? And it's quite natural.
Every soul is to itself the centre of the universe--through which the
infinite panorama passes; nothing exists but in relation to it:
to its standards of beauty, of right and wrong, of humour, of
admiration, everything is brought.

There's no man so low or so ridiculous but he finds somebody else
more so, and the London street-boy who sneers at the long-haired
poet is exalted to a sense of superiority.

I once met a human monstrosity--hunch-backed, cross-eyed, palsied,
and wooden-legged.

My soul sickened with pity, but his face brightened in a smile of
contempt and his cross-eyes danced with glee.

I appealed to his sense of the ridiculous.

Listen to the comments of people upon one another after a party,
and confess that a coterie is often but a mutual contempt society.

That is what makes life livable--every living creature is an amused
eye upon the universe.

Terence said as much long ago. We amuse one another, and exist to gratify
one another's sense of superiority, like the islanders who live by taking
in one another's washing. It will be a thousand pities if the spread
of travelling removes the mutual superiorities of Englishmen and Frenchmen,
Chinamen and Hindoos. I went to a dinner-party the other day. The host
and hostess were impossible--like spiteful studies by Thackeray caricatured
by Dickens.
Yet there were they arrogating to themselves every privilege of judgment and
jurisdiction that the most fashionable peers or the sublimest souls could
claim; to their own minds the arbiters of elegance, the patrons of the
arts, the flagellators of vice and snobbery, the gracious laudators of
virtue, the easy fomenters of scandal.

"Prithee, was ever one of us capable of not lecturing on ethics or not
preaching a sermon? Did not Sir Barnes Newcome lecture on the Family?
Do we not all hold forth on the condition of the poor, the morality
of the mining-market; the inferior ethics of the coloured races,
and a hundred other lofty topics, warming our coat-tails at the
glow of our own virtue?

'T is the fault of language which enables arrant scoundrels to use fine
words that they have never felt. Humility, self-sacrifice, noble-mindedness,
are phrases easily picked up by people for whom their only meaning is
in the dictionary, and who know it is the correct thing to admire them.
They are like students of chemistry who babble of H2SO4 and NH3 by book
without ever having seen a laboratory or a retort, or tone-deaf people
raving over Beethoven. And these lip-servants of virtue are unconscious
that they have never known the real thing. Every discussion between
civilised persons presupposes moral perfection all round--a common
elevated platform from which one surveys the age and its problems, and
considers how to bring the world at large up to one's own level. You
cannot discuss anything with a person who has ever been publicly
imperfect--at any point you may tread on his corns. Has he been bankrupt?
The slightest reference to honesty, finance, or business may seem an insult.
Has he figured in the Divorce Court? How are you to talk about the
last new play without seeming personal? This explains why exposed
persons are cut: they have made conversation impossible by cutting away
the common ground of it, the hypothesis of perfection. Even with persons
who have merely lost relatives one has to be careful to avoid references
to mortality.

The complete diner-out has to be equipped with a knowledge of his fellows
to the third and fourth generation, so as to avoid giving offence. To say
that late marriages are a mistake or second marriages a folly may be to
make enemies for life. Which, by the way, is absurd: all conversation
should be regarded as privileged and impersonal. 'T is brain meeting
brain, not foot treading gingerly among irrelevant personal considerations.
And just as we are all willing to preach, we are all willing to be preached
at--it gives us such an opportunity of gauging the preacher's morality and
ability. The Scotch peasants who denounce their meenister's orthodoxy
are an extreme case, but if we were not really judging our judges we should
go to opposition churches. What we demand from preaching--as from
newspapers--is an echo of our own voices, and when the preacher or the
newspaper leads it is only by pretending to follow. Opportunity makes the
politician. Watch the crowd streaming out of church after a sermon. Do
they wear an air of edification or humiliation? Are they bowed down with
the consciousness of their backslidings? No: they are aesthetes come
from a literary and oratorical performance.

They are not thinking of themselves at all, but of the quality of the
sermon. Yes, around each of us the world turns, and each soul is the
hub of the universe. Popular suffrage is the recognition of this great
fact: not one of us but is competent to arrange the affairs of the country.
Every man Jack and woman Jill is a standard, a test, an imperial weight
and measure, and the universe must endure our verdict as it goes round
us. To expect this central standard to turn back on itself and become
aware of its own defects and distortions is like expecting a pair of scales
to weigh itself; or--more absurd still--expecting a false pair of scales
to weigh itself truly. 'All men think all men mortal but themselves,' and
so all men find all men wanting except themselves. If they ever for a moment
suspect that they are not perfect--whether the suspicion leak in through
reflection or reprobation--'t is but for a moment. We cannot live
on bad terms with ourselves, nor with a consciousness which doubts and
despises us--whether it be our own consciousness or a friend's. Our nature
throws up earthworks against a contemptuous opinion. Just as a bodily
wound is repaired by the wonderful normal processes of circulation and
nutrition, so our self-love tends to repair the wounds of the soul. We
feel that even if we are not perfect, we are as perfect as possible _under
the circumstances_. If so-and-so and so-and-so had had to go through
our sufferings or our temptations, he or she would have acted no
better.

And even in our wildest remorse we are self-satisfied with our self-dissatisfaction.
Nor is this need of our nature for self-reconcilement wholly without
spiritual significance. It points to an incurable morality in the human
soul, and to the truth that if we mainly use our ideals to condemn other
people by, we are bound to condemn ourselves by them if we can once be
got to perceive that we _have_ violated them ourselves, though we at once
seek peace in extenuating circumstances. Peace of mind is the homage which
vice pays to virtue. Nor, though it matters immensely to society what
ideals people have, and that they have the right ones, to the people
themselves it matters only that they _have_ ideals, right or wrong. Where
there is honour among thieves, a thief may have a fine sense of
self-respect."
"Plato agrees with you," said I. "He points out that if thieves were
utter scoundrels they could not act in concert."
"Ah!" said the Young Fogey, "Plato was a great thinker. In truth, the only
incorrigible rogue is he who is devoid of ideals, who has allowed his
ethical nature to disintegrate. Such a one ceases to be a _person_.

He has lost the integrating factor--the moral--which binds human personality
together. He is a mere aggregation of random impulses. The last stage
of moral decay is impersonality. Impersonality sums up 'the daughters
of joy,' with their indifference to aught but the moment.

"But it is wonderful what shreds of personality, what tags and rags of
the ideal, the most degraded may retain. Was there ever a soul that did
not think some one action beneath its dignity? An absolutely unscrupulous
person is a contradiction in terms. To be unscrupulous were to cease to
be a person, to have become a bundle of instincts and impulses. But no
one is so good or so bad as he appears. The chronicler of the 'Book
of Snobs' was himself a bit of a snob, and the poet who sought for the
spiritual where Thackeray had looked for the snobbish, who bade us note

"All the world's coarse thumb And finger failed to plumb, So passed in
making up the main account; All instincts immature, All purposes
unsure, That weighed not as his work, yet swelled the man's amount,
was almost as weak as the satirist in that respect for titles and riches
which is the veritable 'last infirmity of noble minds.'
"Still, Browning's is the truer view of human life, and till we see our
neighbours as Omniscience sees them, our kindest and cruellest estimates
will be equally wide of the mark.

"And conversely, unless you develop a personality, you cannot be
moral, or even immoral.

You can be social or anti-social--that is, your actions can make for the
good or the ill of society. But moral or immoral it is not given to
everybody to be. For I do not agree with those who would substitute
social and anti-social for those ancient adjectives. We are concerned
with the quality of acts as well as with their effects, with the soul as
well as its environment. And it takes a real live soul to do good or evil.
That is the point of Mr.

Kipling's Tomlinson--a mere bundle of hearsays--who could win neither
hell nor heaven.

It is also the teaching of Ibsen.

You must not shrink from wrong because you are told it is wrong, but
because you see it is wrong. But few people can expect to develop a
personality of their own. Current morality is the automatic application
of misunderstood principles. And so it must always be. For the function of
the average man is to obey. Was it not Napoleon who said that men are meant
either to lead or to obey, and those who can do neither should be killed
off? Ethics is the conscience of the best regulating the conduct
of the worst. Hence there are no immutable rules of morality:

"For the wildest dreams of Kew are the facts of Khatmandoo, And the crimes
of Clapham chaste at Martaban.

But there are immutable _principles_. To spit in a guest's face is with
some savage tribes a mark of respect. But this does not invalidate the
principle that to guests should be shown courtesy. Rules vary with time
and place, principles are eternal; and even if unmentionable things
are done in Africa and Polynesia, if 'the dark places of the earth are full
of cruelty,' that does not invalidate the principles of morality,
as our modern blood-and-thunder young man affects to believe.

For that the principles of right and justice have not yet been
discovered in barbarous countries no more destroys their universality
and legitimacy than the principles of the differential calculus are
affected by the primitive practice of counting on the fingers.

And while the ethical geniuses--the senior wranglers of the soul--are
groping towards further truths and finer shades of feeling, deeper
reaches of pity and subtler perceptions of justice, the rank and
file and the wooden spoons must needs apply the old ethics, even
against the new teachers themselves.

Every truth has to fight for recognition, to prove itself not a lie. The
brilliant and impatient young men who scoff at conventions because the
people who hold them are unreal--not persons, feeling and passing
moral truths through their own soul, but parrots--forget that just because
the people are unreal, their maxims are real; that they do not represent
the people who mouth them, but the great moralists and thinkers
behind.

  Against the brilliant
  rushlights of contemporary
  cleverness shine the stars of
  the ages. 'T is the immemorial
  mistake of iconoclasts--even granted
  they are taller than their fellow-men--to be ever conscious of the
extra inches, instead of the common feet.

Nevertheless" (and here the Young Fogey put on his most judicial manner)
"the extra inches must tell. For because real ethics resides not in rules
but in principles, obedience to the letter may mean falsity to the
spirit, if the circumstances that dictated the rules have changed.
This is not casuistry. 'T is a concept not to be found in
Panaetius or Cicero or the Jesuit Fathers. It means that we are not to
wear our boyhood's waistcoats, but to be measured for manhood's.
Tight-lacing is bad for the spiritual circulation. 'Get rid of the Hebrew
old clo', cried that curious Carlyle, the chief dealer in them. Amen,
say I: but do not let us therefore go naked. And since we have stumbled
upon 'Sartor Resartus,' permit me a comparison in keeping. I once saw
a tailor measuring the boys in a charity school. He drew a chalk line
five feet up a wall, and dividing the upper part of the line by horizontal
chalk-marks, stood the boys beside it, one after another, and according to
the chalk-mark which the crown of the unfortunate creature's head grazed,
Master Snip called out 'Fours,' 'Ones,' 'Fives.' Fat boys or lean boys,
big-bodied or big-legged, narrow-chested or broad-shouldered, 't was all
ones--or twos--to him.

Did they agree in height, the same clothes--tight or loose--for all! Thus
is it with our moral maxims.
Genius or goose, saint or sinner--your head to the chalk-mark! And
rightly. When one has to deal with great masses one cannot consider little
details. The principles of morality must be broad and simple, and the world
is right to apply them sternly and undiscriminatingly. The general cannot
consider the peculiarities of a particular soldier, though the corporal
of the regiment may make allowances for him. And so with breaches of morals.
The world at large should condemn; but the private friends, who
know the circumstances in every petty involution, who know the temptations
and the extenuating factors, should form as it were a court of appeal. If
they elected to stand by the offender, the world at large should
reconsider its verdict.

This is what practically took place in the George Eliot and Lewes instance.
Weighed, not by the steelyard of general principle, but by the delicate
chemical balance of special detail, they were not found wanting.
The Magna Charta is still only a pious aspiration. 'Every man shall be
tried by a jury of his peers.' How profound! For only our equals can
know our travails and temptations. How, now, if we had to try Shakespeare!
which of us would dare sit on the panel? Yet we 'chatter about Shelley.'
He did wrong--granted. But was it wrong of him to do it? That is another
question altogether. Subjective morality and objective morality are two
different things. But the whole subject of the sexes is wrapped in hypocrisy,
and the breaches of morality are committed less by the celebrated than
by the obscure. The savage sarcasm of Schopenhauer's refusal to discuss
monogamy because it had never yet come within the range of practical
politics is still justified. I remember once reading an anecdote about a
besieged town. The defenders resolved to make a sortie on a certain day,
only, in dread of their plan somehow leaking out beyond the gates, or of
their womankind dissuading some from the perilous enterprise, they
administered a solemn oath to one another that none of them should
tell his wife, nor speak of it again even to another man, till the
moment arrived.

But each individual man told the partner of his bosom, only binding her by
most fearsome oaths to say nothing to any other woman or man. All the
women kept their oaths, each going about with the proud sense of being
the only woman in the great secret. And so the women all met in the
market-place, chattering about every subject on earth but that which
was nearest their hearts, and the men moved among them, mutually silent.
The whole community knew the secret whereof no one spoke. You perceive
the parallel? Sex is the secret we are all in. Why shouldn't we
talk openly?

Why shouldn't we face facts? The marriage laws should be made as flexible,
not as inflexible, as possible. Why?

Because the bad people will evade everything and the good people endure
anything. The bad people will break the best laws and the good people
will respect the worst laws.
Hence, stringency squeezes the saint and lets the sinner slip.

Harsh legislation puts a penalty on virtue: the vicious skirt round
it surreptitiously, or are openly happy in despite of it.

The only thing immutable in sexual morality is the principle of regulating
it with a view to the highest ends of the soul and the state: the
regulations themselves are mutable, and we should not sacrifice too
many human beings to gratify the idealism of the happily married. At the
same time do not suspect me of Hilltopsy-turveydom, which seems to me
based on bad physiology and worse psychology. Mr. Grant Allen, man
of science as he is in his spare moments, is more like Matthew Arnold's
Shelley, a beautiful and ineffectual angel beating in the void his
luminous wings in vain. So complex is the problem which seems to him so
simple, that it is not improbable that the present monogamy (tempered
by polygamy) is the best of all possible arrangements.

This is not to belaud the present system, any more than it is optimistic
to say this is the best of all possible worlds. It may be so, but it remains
a pity that no better was possible.

And Mrs.

Grundy herself seems to me as over-abused as marriage. The celerity with
which she became a byword, from the moment she made her accidental appearance
in Tom Morton's 'Speed the Plough,' shows how the popular instinct
needed some such incarnation of our neighbours' opinions. She stands, the
representative of the ethical level of the age, not of fixed pruderies.
She is by no means the staid old soul her maligners imagine--never
was there creature more changeable.
Sometimes sense, sometimes intellect, is the first to awake
in us--supposing we are dowered with an intellect; but pain, which is the
perfecting of our nature, must precede the soul's awakening and for Evadne
at that age, with her limited personal knowledge of life and scant
experience of every form of human emotion which involves suffering, such
an awakening was impossible. The first feeling of a girl as happily
situated, healthy-minded, and physically strong as she was is bound to be
pleasurable; and had she been a young man at this time she would not
improbably have sought to heighten and vary her sensations by adding
greater quantities of alcohol to her daily diet; she would have grown
coarse of skin by eating more than she could assimilate; she would have
smelt strongly enough of tobacco, as a rule, to try the endurance of a
barmaid; she would have been anxious about the fit of coats, fastidious as
to the choice of ties, quite impossible in the matter of trousers, and
prone to regard her own image in the glass caressingly. She would have
considered that every petticoat held a divinity, or every woman had her
price according to the direction in which nature had limited her powers of
perception with a view to the final making of her into a sentimental or a
vicious fool. When she should have been hard at work she would have stayed
in bed in the morning flattering her imagination with visions of the
peerless beauties who would all adore her, and the proud place she would
conquer in the world; and she would have gone girl-stalking in
earnest--_probably_--had she been a young man. But being as she was,
she got up early and went to church. It was the one way she had of
expressing the silent joy of her being, and of intensifying it. She
practised an extreme ritual at this time, and found in it the most
complete form of expression for her mood possible. And in those early
morning walks when she brushed the dew-bespangled cobwebs from the gorse,
and startled the twittering birds from their morning meal--in the
caressing of healthy odours, the uplifting of all sweet natural sounds,
the soothing of the great sea-voice, the sense of infinity in the level
landscape, of beauty in form and colour, of rest and peace in the grateful
shadow of the little church on the cliff, but, above all, in the release
from mental tension, and the ease of feeling after the strain of thought,
she found the highest form of pleasure she had tasted, the most rarefied,
the most intense. The St. Valentine's Day of her development was
approaching, and her heart had begun already to practise the notes of the
song-significant into which she would burst when it came.

It is a nice question that, as to where the sensuous ends, and the
spiritual begins. The dovetail is so exact just at the junction that it is
impossible to determine, and it is there that "spirit and flesh grow one
with delight" on occasion; but the test of the spiritual lies in its
continuity. Pleasures of the senses pall upon repetition, but pleasures of
the soul continue and increase. A delicate dish soon wearies the palate,
but the power to appreciate a poem or a picture grows greater the more we
study them--illustrations as trite, by the way, as those of the average
divine in his weekly sermon, but calculated to comfort to the same extent
in that they possess the charm of familiarity which satisfies self-love by
proving that we know quite as much of some subjects as those who profess
to teach them. Still, a happy condition of the senses may easily be
mistaken for a great outpouring of spiritual enthusiasm, and many an
inspiring soul unconsciously stimulates them in ways less pardonable
perhaps than the legitimate joy of a good dinner to a hungry man, or the
more subtle pleasure which a refined woman experiences while sharing the
communion of well-dressed saints on a cushioned seat, listening to
exquisite music in a fashionable church. Sensations of gladness send some
people to church whom grief of any kind would drive from thence
effectually. It is a matter of temperament. There are those who are by
nature grateful for every good gift, who even bow their heads and suffer
meekly if they perceive that they will have their reward, but are ready to
rebel with rage against any form of ineffectual pain. This was likely to
be Evadne's case. Yet her mother had been right about her having a deeply
religious disposition.

The vicar in charge of the church on the cliff--he of the musical voice,
Mr. Borthwick by name--became aware at once of Evadne's regular
attendance. He was a young man, very earnest, very devout, worn thin with
hard work, but happy in that he had it to do, and with that serene
expression of countenance which comes of the habit of conscientious
endeavour. As a matter of course, with such men at the present time, he
sought solace in ritual. His whole nature thrilled to the roll of the
organ, to the notes of a grateful anthem, to the sight and scent of his
beautiful flowers on the altar, and to the harmony of colour and
conventional design on the walls of his little church. He spent his life
and his substance upon it, doing what he could to beautify it himself, in
the name of the Lord, and finding in the act of worship a refinement of
pleasure difficult of attainment, but possible and precious. And while all
that sufficed for him, he honestly entertained the idea of celibacy as a
condition necessary for the perfect purification of his own soul, and
desirable as giving him a place apart which would help to maintain and
strengthen his influence with his people. A layman may remain a bachelor
without attracting attention, but a priest who abjures matrimony insists
that he makes a sacrifice, and deserves credit for the same. He says that
the laws of nature are the laws of God, yet arranges his own life in
direct opposition to the greatest of them. He can give no unanswerable
reason for maintaining that the legitimate exercise of one set of natural
functions is less holy than the exercise of the others, but that is what
he believes, and curiously inconsistent as the conclusion is, the Rev.
Henry Borthwick had adopted this view emphatically at the outset of his
clerical career, and had announced his intention of adhering to it for the
rest of his life. But, just as the snow under the cool and quiet stars at
dusk might feel full force in itself to vow to the rising moon that it
will not melt, and find nevertheless of necessity when the sun appears
that it cannot keep its vow, so did the idea of celibacy pass from the
mind of the Rev. Henry Borthwick when Evadne began to attend his morning
services. Insensibly his first view of the subject vanished altogether,
and was immediately replaced, first by an uplifting vision of the
advantages of having a wife's help in the parish, then by a glimpse of the
tender pleasure of a wife's presence in the house; and--extraordinary as
it may seem, this final thought occurred to him while the Psalms were
being sung in church one morning, so uncertain is the direction of man's
mind at any time--he even had a vision of the joy of a wife's kiss when
the sweet red lips that gave it were curved like those of the girl before
him. He felt a great outpouring of spiritual grace during that service;
his powers of devotion were intensified. But the moment it was over he
hurried to the vestry, tore off his surplice and threw it on the floor,
met Evadne as she left the church, and lingered long on the cliffs with
her in earnest conversation.

She was late for breakfast that morning, and her mother asked her what had
detained her.

"Mr. Borthwick was talking to me about the sacraments of the Church,
mother," she answered, her calm true eyes meeting her mother's without
confusion; "and about the necessity for, and the advantage of, frequent
communions."

"And what do you think about it, dear?"

"I think I should like it."

Her mother said no more. Young Borthwick was a cadet of good family with
expectations in the way of money, influence enough to procure him a
deanery at least, and with a reputation for ability which, with his other
advantages, gave him as fair a prospect as anybody she knew of a bishopric
eventually--just the thing for Evadne, she reflected, so she did not
interfere.

This was really a happy time for Evadne. The young priest frequently met
her after the early service, and she liked his devotion. She liked his
clean-featured, close-shaven face too, and his musical voice. He was her
perfection of a priest, and when he did not meet her she missed him. She
did not care for him so much when he called at the house, however. She
associated him somehow with her morning moods, with religious discourses,
and the Church service; but when he ventured beyond these limits, they
lost touch, and so she held him down to them rigorously. He tried to
resist. He even conceived a distaste for ecclesiastical subjects, and
endeavoured to float her attention from these on little boats of fancy
phrases made out of the first freshness of new days, the beauty of the sun
on the sea, the jade-green of grass on the cliffs, the pleasure he took in
the songs of birds, and other more mundane matters; but he lost her
sympathetic interest when he did so, receiving her polite attention
instead, which was cold in comparison, and therefore did not satisfy him,
so he determined to try and come to a perfect understanding, and during
one of their morning walks, he startled her by making her a solemn and
abrupt offer of marriage.

She considered the proposition in silence for some time. Then she looked
at him as if she had never seen him before. Then she said, not knowing she
was cruel, and only desiring to be frank: "I have never thought of you as
a man, you know--only as a priest; and in that character I think you
perfect. I respect and reverence you. I even love you, but--"

"But what?" he asked eagerly, his delicate face flushing, his whole being
held in suspense.

"But I could not marry a priest. It would seem to be a sort of sacrilege."

She was very pale when she went in that morning, and her mother noticed
it, and questioned her.

"Mr. Borthwick asked me to marry him, mother," she answered straight to
the point, as was her wont. "He surprised me."

"I am not surprised, dear," her mother rejoined, smiling.

"Did you suppose he would, mother?'

"Yes. I was sure of it."

"Oh, I wish you had warned me!"

"Then you haven't accepted him, Evadne?"

"No. I have always understood that it is not right for a priest to marry,
and the idea of marrying one repels me. He has lowered himself in my
estimation by thinking of such a thing. I could not think of him as I do
of other men. I cannot dissociate him from his office. I expect him
somehow to be always about his reading-desk and pulpit."

Mrs. Frayling's face had fallen, but she only said: "I wish you could have
felt otherwise, dear."

Evadne went up to her room, and stood leaning against the frame of the
open window, looking out over the level landscape. The poor priest had
shown deep feeling, and it was the first she had seen of such suffering.
It pained her terribly.

She got up early next morning, and went out as usual; but the scent of the
gorse was obtrusive, the bird-voices had lost their charm, the far-off
sound of the sea had a new and melancholy note in it, and the little
church on the cliff looked lonely against the sky. She could not go there
again to be reminded of what she would fain have forgotten. No; that phase
was over. The revulsion of feeling was complete, and to banish all
recollection of it she tried with a will to revive the suspended animation
of her interest in her books.


CHAPTER XI.


"All excitements run to love in women of a certain--let us not say age,
but youth," says the professor. "An electrical current passing through a
coil of wire makes a magnet of a bar of iron lying within it, but not
touching it. So a woman is turned into a love-magnet, by a tingling
current of life running round her. I should like to see one of them
balanced on a pivot properly adjusted, and watch if she did not turn so as
to point north and south, as she would if the love-currents are like those
of the earth, our mother."

This passage indicates exactly the point at which Evadne had now arrived,
and where she was pausing.

The attempt to return to her books had been far from successful. Her eye
would traverse page after page without transferring a single record to her
brain, and she would sit with one open in her lap by the hour together,
not absorbed in thought, but lost in feeling. She was both glad and sad at
the same time, glad in her youth and strength, and sad in the sense of
something wanting; what was it?

  If she had--Well! She longed, and knew not wherefore.
  Had the world nothing she might live to care for?
  No second self to say her evening prayer for?

The poor little bird loved the old nest, but she had unconsciously
outgrown it, and was perplexed to find no ease or comfort in it any more.

She certainly entertained the idea of marriage at this time. She had
acquired a sort of notion from her friends that it was good to marry, and
her own inclinations seconded the suggestion. She meant to marry when she
should find the right man, but the difficulty of choice disturbed her. She
had still much of the spirit which made her at twelve see nothing but
nonsense in the "Turn, Gentle Hermit of the Dale" drivel, and she was
quite prepared to decide with her mind. She never took her heart into
consideration, or the possibility of being overcome by a feeling which is
stronger than reason.

She made her future husband a subject of prayer, however. She prayed that
he might be an upright man, that he might come to her soon; she even asked
for some sign by which she should know him. This was during the morning
service in church one Sunday--not the little one on the cliff, which was
only a chapel-of-ease; but the parish church to which the whole family
went regularly. Her thoughts had wandered away, from the lesson that was
being read, to this subject of private devotion, and as she formulated the
desire for a sign, for some certainty by which she might know the man whom
the dear Lord intended to be her husband, she looked up, and from the
other side of the aisle she met a glance that abashed her. She looked
away, but her eyes were drawn back inevitably, and this time the glance of
those other eyes enlightened her. Her heart bounded--her face flushed.
This was the sign, she was sure of it. She had felt nothing like it
before, and although she never raised her eyes again, she thrilled through
the rest of the service to the consciousness that there, not many yards
away, her future husband sat and sighed for her.

After the service, the subject of her thoughts claimed her father's
acquaintance; and was introduced by him to her as Major Colquhoun. He
looked about thirty-eight, and was a big blond man, with a heavy
moustache, and a delicate skin that flushed easily. His hair was thin on
the forehead; in a few more years he would be bald there.

Mr. Frayling asked him to lunch, and Evadne sat beside him. She scarcely
spoke a word the whole time, or looked at him; but she knew that he looked
at her; and she glowed and was glad. The little church on the cliff seemed
a long way off, and out in the cold now. She was sorry for Mr. Borthwick.
She had full faith in the sign. Was not the fact that Major Colquhoun,
whom she had never even heard of in her life before, was sitting beside
her at that moment, confirmation strong, if any were wanting? But she
asked no more.

After lunch her father carried his guest off to smoke, and she went up to
her own room to be alone, and sat in the sun by the open window, with her
head resting on the back of her chair, looking up at the sky; and sighed,
and smiled, and clasped her hands to her breast, and revelled in
sensations.

Major Colquhoun had been staying with a neighbouring county gentleman, but
she found when she met him again at afternoon tea that her father had
persuaded him to come to Fraylingay for some shooting. He was to go back
that night, and return to them the following Tuesday. Evadne heard of the
arrangement in silence, and unsurprised. Had he gone and _not_
returned, she would have wondered; but this sudden admission of a stranger
to the family circle, although unusual, was not unprecedented at
Fraylingay, where, after it was certain that you knew the right people,
pleasant manners were the only passport necessary to secure a footing of
easy intimacy; and, besides, it was inevitable--that the sign might be
fulfilled. So Evadne folded her hands as it were, and calmly awaited the
course of events, not doubting for a moment that she knew exactly what
that course was to be.

She did not actually _see_ much of Major Colquhoun in the days that
followed, although, when he was not out shooting, he was always beside her;
but such timid glances as she stole satisfied her. And she heard her
mother say what a fine-looking man he was, and her father emphatically
pronounced him to be "a very good fellow." He was Irish by his mother's
side, Scotch by his father's, but much more Irish than Scotch by
predilection, and it was his mother tongue he spoke, exaggerating the
accent slightly to heighten the effect of a tender speech or a good story.
With the latter he kept Mr. Frayling well entertained, and Evadne he plied
with the former on every possible occasion.

His visit was to have been for a few days only, but it extended itself to
some weeks, at the end of which time Evadne had accepted him, the
engagement had been announced in the proper papers, Mrs. Frayling was
radiant, congratulations poured in, and everybody concerned was in a state
of pleasurable excitement from morning till night.

Mrs. Frayling was an affectionate woman, and it was touching to see her
writing fluent letters of announcement to her many friends, the smiles on
her lips broken by ominous quiverings now and then, and a handkerchief
held crumpled in her left hand, and growing gradually damper, as she
proceeded, with the happy tears that threatened her neat epistle with
blots and blisters.

"It has been the prettiest idyl to us onlookers," she wrote to Lady
Adeline. "Love at first sight with both of them, and their first glimpse
of each other was in church, which we all take to be the happiest omen
that God's blessing is upon them, and will sanctify their union. Evadne
says little, but there is such a delicate tinge of colour in her cheeks
always, and such a happy light in her eyes, that I cannot help looking at
her. George is senior major, and will command the regiment in a very short
time, and his means are quite ample enough for them to begin upon. There
is twenty years difference in their ages, which sounds too much
theoretically, but practically, when you see them together, you never
think of it. He is very handsome, every inch a soldier, and an Irishman,
with all an Irishman's brightness and wit, and altogether the most taking
manners. I tell Evadne I am quite in love with him myself! He is a
thoroughly good Churchman too, which is a great blessing--never misses a
service, and it is a beautiful sight to see him kneeling beside Evadne as
rapt and intent as she is. He was rather wild as a young man, I am sorry
to say, but he has been quite frank about all, that to Mr. Frayling, and
there is nothing now that we can object to. In fact, we think he is
exactly suited to Evadne, and we are thoroughly satisfied in every way.
You can imagine that I find it hard to part with her, but I always knew
that it would be the case as soon as she came out, and so was prepared in
a way; still, that will not lessen the wrench when it comes. But of course
I must not consider my own feelings when the dear child's happiness is in
question, and I think that long engagements are a mistake; and as there is
really no reason why they should wait, they are to be married at the end
of next month, which gives us only six weeks to get the trousseau. We are
going to town at once to see about it, and I think that probably the
ceremony will take place there too. It would be such a business at
Fraylingay, with all the tenants and everything, and altogether one has to
consider expense. But do write at once and promise me that we may expect
you, and Mr. Hamilton-Wells, and the _dear_ twins, wherever it is. In
fact, I believe Evadne is writing to Theodore at this moment to ask him to
be her page, and Angelica will, of course, be a bridesmaid."

During the first days of her absorbing passion Evadne's devotion to God
was intensified. "Sing to the Lord a new song" was forever upon her lips.

When the question of her engagement came to be mooted she had had a long
talk with her father, following upon a still longer talk which he had with
Major Colquhoun.

"And you are satisfied with my choice, father?" she said. "You consider
George in every respect a suitable husband for me?"

"In all respects, my dear," he answered heartily. "He is a very fine,
manly fellow."

"There was nothing in his past life to which I should object?" she
ventured timidly.

"Oh, nothing, nothing," he assured her. "He has been perfectly
straightforward about himself, and I am satisfied that he will make you an
excellent husband."

It was all the assurance she required, and after she had received it she
gave herself up to her happiness without a doubt, and unreservedly.

The time flew. Major Colquhoun's leave expired, and he was obliged to
return to his regiment at Shorncliffe; but they wrote to each other every
day, and this constant communion was a new source of delight to Evadne.
Just before they left Fraylingay she went to see her aunt, Mrs. Orton Beg.
The latter had sprained her ankle severely, and would therefore not be
able to go to Evadne's wedding. She lived in Morningquest, and had a
little house in the Close there. Morningquest was only twenty miles from
Fraylingay, but the trains were tiresomely slow, and did not run in
connection, so that it took as long to get there as it did to go to
London, and people might live their lives in Fraylingay, and know nothing
of Morningquest.

Mrs. Orton Beg's husband was buried in the old cathedral city, and she
lived there to be near his grave. She could never tear herself away from
it for long together. The light of her life had gone out when he died, and
was buried with him; but the light of her love, fed upon the blessed hope
of immortality, burnt brighter every day.

Her existence in the quiet Close was a very peaceful, dreamy one, soothed
by the chime, uplifted by the sight of the beautiful old cathedral, and
regulated by its service.

Evadne found her lying on a couch beside an open window in the drawing
room, which was a long, low room, running the full width of the house, and
with a window at either end, one looking up the Close to the north, the
other to the south, into a high-walled, old-fashioned flower garden; and
this was the one near which Mrs. Orton Beg was lying.

"I think I should turn to the cathedral, Aunt Olive," Evadne said.

"I do," her aunt answered; "but not at this time of day. I travel round
with the sun."

"It would fill my mind with beautiful thoughts to live here," Evadne said,
looking up at the lonely spire reverently.

"I have no doubt that your mind is always full of beautiful thoughts," her
aunt rejoined, smiling. "But I know what you mean. There are thoughts
carved on those dumb gray stones which can only come to us from such a
source of inspiration. The sincerity of the old workmen, their love and
their reverence, were wrought into all they produced, and if only we hold
our own minds in the right attitude, we receive something of their grace.
Do you remember that passage of Longfellow's?--

  "Ah! from what agonies of heart and brain,
  What exultations trampling on despair,
  What tenderness, what tears, what hate of wrong,
  What passionate outcry of a soul in pain,
  Uprose this poem of the earth and air,
  This medieval miracle,...!

"Sitting here alone, sometimes I seem to feel it all--all the capacity for
loving sacrifice and all the energy of human passion which wrought itself
into that beautiful offering of its devotion, and made it acceptable. But,
tell me, Evadne--are you very happy?"

"I am _too_ happy, I think, auntie. But I can't talk about it. I must
keep the consciousness of it close in my own heart, and guard it
jealously, lest I dissipate any atom of it by attempting to describe it."

"Do you think, then, that love is such a delicate thing that the slightest
exposure will destroy it?"

"I don't know what I think. But the feeling is so fresh now, auntie, I am
afraid to run the risk of uttering a word, or hearing one, that might
tarnish it."

She strolled out into the garden during the afternoon, and sat on a
high-backed chair in the shade of the old brick wall, with eyes half
closed and a smile hovering about her lips. The wall was curtained with
canaryensis, virginia creeper rich in autumn tints, ivy, and giant
nasturtiums. Great sunflowers grew up against it, and a row of single
dahlias of every possible hue crowded up close to the sunflowers. They
made a background to the girl's slender figure.

She sat there a long time, happily absorbed, and Mrs. Orton Beg's memory,
as she watched her, slipped back inevitably to her own love days, till
tears came of the inward supplication that Evadne's future might never
know the terrible blight which had fallen upon her own life.

Evadne walked through the village on her way back to Fraylingay. A young
woman with her baby in her arms was standing at the door of her cottage
looking out as she passed, and she stopped to speak to her. The child held
out his little arms, and kicked and crowed to be taken, and when his
mother had intrusted him to Evadne, he clasped her tight round the neck,
and nibbled her cheek with his warm, moist mouth, sending a delicious
thrill through every fibre of her body, a first foretaste of maternity.

She hurried on to hide her emotion.

But all the way home there was a singing at her heart, a certainty of joys
undreamt of hitherto, the tenderest, sweetest, most womanly joys--her own
house, her own husband, her own children--perhaps; it all lay in that, her
_own_!


CHAPTER XII


The next few weeks were decked with the richness of autumn tints, the
glory of autumn skies; but Evadne was unaware of either. She had no
consciousness of distinct days and nights, and indeed they were pretty
well mingled after she went to town, for she often danced till daylight
and slept till dusk. And it was all a golden haze, this time, with
impressions of endless shops; of silks, satins, and lovely laces; of
costly trinkets; of little notes flying between London and Shorncliffe;
and of everybody so happy that it was impossible to help sitting down and
having a good cry occasionally.

The whirl in which she lived during this period was entered upon without
thought, her own inclinations agreeing at the time to every usage
sanctioned by custom; but in after years she said that those days of
dissipation and excitement appeared to her to be a curious preparation for
the solemn duties she was about to enter upon.

Evadne felt the time fly, and she felt also that the days were never
ending. It was six weeks at first; and then all at once, as it seemed,
there was only one week; and then it was "tomorrow!" All that last day
there was a terrible racket in the house, and she was hardly left alone a
single moment, and was therefore thankful when finally, late at night, she
managed to escape to her own room--not that she was left long in peace
even then, however, for two of her bridesmaids were staying in the house,
and they and her sisters stormed her chamber in their dressing-gowns, and
had a pillow fight to begin with, and then sat down and cackled for an
hour, speculating as to whether they should like to be married or not.
They decided that they should, because of the presents, you know, and the
position, and the delight of having such a lot of new gowns, and being
your own mistress, with your own house and servants; they thought of
everything, in fact, but the inevitable husband, the possession of whom
certainly constituted no part of the advantages which they expected to
secure by marriage. Evadne sat silent, and smiled at their chatter with
the air of one who has solved the problem and knows. But she was glad to
be rid of them, and when they had gone, she got her sacred "Commonplace
Book," and glanced through it dreamily. Then, rousing herself a little,
she went to her writing table, and sat down and wrote: "This is the close
of the happiest girlhood that girl ever had. I cannot recall a single
thing that I would have had otherwise."

When she had locked the book away, with some other possessions in a box
that was to be sent to await her arrival at her new home, she took up a
photograph of her lover and gazed at it rapturously for a moment, then
pressed it to her lips and breast, and placed it where her eyes might
light on it as soon as she awoke.

She was aroused by a kiss on her lips and a warm tear on her cheek next
morning. "Wake, darling," her mother said. "This is your wedding day."

"Oh, mother," she cried, flinging her arms round her neck; "how good of
you to come yourself! I _am_ so happy!"

Mr. Hamilton-Wells, Lady Adeline, and the Heavenly Twins had been at the
Fraylings' since breakfast, and nothing had happened.

The authors however merely wish to suggest a method which they have
successfully employed:

I. Regular preparation of the advance lesson should be made as
follows:
_a_. Reading of the text by the teacher, a sentence at a time.Hamilton-Wells, "I think the occasion is too
interesting for them to have anything else in their heads."

But the moment she left them alone those same heads went up, and set
themselves in a listening attitude.

"_Now_, Diavolo; _quick_!" said Angelica, as soon as the sound
of her mother's departing footsteps had died away.

Diavolo dashed the picture-book to the opposite side of the room, sprang
up, and followed Angelica swiftly but stealthily to the very top of the
house.

When the wedding party assembled in the drawing room the twins were
nowhere to be found, Mr. Hamilton-Wells went peering through his eyeglass
into every corner, removed the glass and looked without it, then dusted
it, and looked once more to make sure, while Lady Adeline grew rigid with
nervous anxiety.

The search had to be abandoned, however; but when the party went down to
the carriages, it was discovered, to everybody's great relief, that the
children had already modestly taken their seats in one of them with their
backs to the horses. Each was carefully covered with an elegant wrap, and
sitting bolt upright, the picture of primness. The wraps were superfluous,
and Mr. Hamilton-Wells was about to remonstrate, but Lady Adeline
exclaimed: "For Heaven's sake, _don't_ interfere! It is such a
_trifle_. If you irritate them, goodness knows _what_ will
happen."

But, manlike, he could not let things be.

"Where have you been, you naughty children?" he demanded in his precisest
way. "You have really given a great deal of trouble."

"Well, papa," Angelica retorted hotly, at the top of her voice through the
carriage window for the edification of the crowd, "you said we were to be
good children, and not get into everybody's way, and here we have been
sitting an hour as good as possible, and quite out of the way, and you
aren't satisfied! It's quite unreasonable; isn't it, Diavolo? Papa can't
get on, I believe, _without_ finding fault with us. It's just a bad
habit he's got, and when we give him no excuse he invents one."

Mr. Hamilton-Wells beat a hasty retreat, and the party arrived at the
church without mishap, but when the procession was formed there was a
momentary delay. They were waiting for the bride's page, who descended
with the youngest bridesmaid from the last carriage, and the two came into
the church demurely, hand in hand, "What darlings!" "Aren't they pretty?"
"What a sweet little boy, with his lovely dark curls!" was heard from all
sides; but there was also an audible titter. Lady Adeline turned pale,
Mrs. Frayling's fan dropped. Evadne lost her countenance. The twins had
changed clothes.

There was nothing to be done then, however; so Angelica obtained the
coveted pleasure of acting as page to Evadne, and Diavolo escaped the
trouble of having to hold up her train, and managed besides to have some
fun with a small but amorous boy who was to have been Angelica's pair, and
who, knowing nothing of the fraud which had been perpetrated, insisted on
kissing the fair Diavolo, to that young gentleman's lasting delight.

It was a misty morning, with only fitful glimpses of sunshine.

Mrs. Frayling was not a bit superstitious (nobody is), but she had been
watching the omens (most people do), and she would have been better
satisfied had the day been bright; but still she felt no shadow of a
foreboding until the twins appeared. Then, however, there arose in her
heart a horrified exclamation: "It is unnatural! It will bring bad luck."

There was no fun for the Heavenly Twins apart, so they decided to sit
together at the wedding breakfast, and nobody dared to separate them, lest
worse should come of it.

Diavolo bet he would drink as much champagne as Major Colquhoun, and
having secured a seat opposite to an uncorked bottle, he proceeded
conscientiously to do his best to win the wager. Toward the end of
breakfast, however, he lost count, and then he lost his head, and showed
signs of falling off his chair.

"You must go to sleep under the table now," said Angelica. "It's the
proper thing to do when you're drunk. _I'm_ going to. Our language is
full of ancient saws, but it takes wit to discover which to turn upside
down.
Anybody can stand anything on its head, but it is only the real humourist
who knows which thing can stand on its head without falling or looking
foolish. 'T is the same in stage dialogue. Many a man of moderate wit can
find a repartee when the joke is unconsciously led up to by another
speaker.

It is the preparation for the joke that is the dramatist's difficulty.

To borrow a term from the Greek grammars, the protasis of the
repartee is more troublesome than the apodosis.

The puzzle is, therefore, find the protasis. When Barry Pain says that
sometimes the glowing fire in the grate stares at you from behind its
bars, as if it could read pictures in you, you cannot help laughing. If
he had given you the protasis, "You gaze into the fire as if you could
read pictures in it," even you could have invented the inversion.
Topsy-turveydom is, I repeat, no laughing matter. It is an art--and must
be studied. When Besant's School of Literature is founded, there will
be

EXERCISES IN TOPSY-TURVEYDOM
1. Invert the following commonplaces humorously:

Honesty is the best policy.
The cup that cheers but not inebriates.
Fools rush in where angels fear to tread.
Like a child in its mother's arms.
(_Not so easy, you see!_)
2. Invert the following _motifs_ humorously:

(_a_) A parted husband and wife reconciled by their little child.
(Stock Poetry.)
(_b_) A patient marrying his nurse on recovery. (Stock Story.)
(_c_) A mother-in-law who comes to stay six months. (The Old Humour.)

Inversion may be applied, you see, both to ideas and to phrases. Let me
contribute a specimen of either sort to the literary primer of the
future:

THE ECONOMY OF SMOKING
I must really give up not smoking, at least till the American
Copyright Act works smoothly, and I am in a position to afford
luxuries.

At present this habit of not smoking is a drain upon my resources which I
can ill support. Whenever a man comes to my house, I have to give him
cigars, or else gain the reputation of a churly and ill-mannered host.
In the olden days, when I was economical and smoked all day long,
I could go to that man's house and get those cigars back.

Very often, too, I used to get the best of the bargain, and thus effect
considerable economies in the purchase of good tobacco. Nowadays, not
only have I got to give away cigars for nothing, but they must be good ones.
Formerly if I gave my friends bad cigars, it was from a box I was
obviously smoking myself, and therefore they had at least the consolation
of knowing I was a companion in misfortune.

But to give others "evils from which you are yourself exempt" (to
quote Lucretius) would be a terrible blend of bad taste and
inhospitality.

Under such circumstances a man looks on a bad cigar as an insult, and the
greater insult because it is a gratuitous one.

But my losses from these sources are trivial compared with the item for
theatres.

In the pure, innocent days, when I could not bear to let my pipe out of
my mouth even for a moment, I was unable to go to theatres; but now that
I have taken to not smoking, I have fallen a victim to my other
craving--the passion for the play. Three stalls a week tot up frightfully
in a year. No, decidedly I must check this extravagant habit of not smoking
before I am irretrievably ruined.

This is forced, but Truth often dwells the bottom of a paradox.

THE DANGER OF LEARNING TO SWIM
The danger of drowning arises mainly from being able to swim. The ability
to swim is of little use as a safeguard against drowning, for it is
only in a minority of cases that the accident thoughtfully allows you every
facility for displaying your powers of natation; you are not conceded
calm stream, a calm mind, and a bathing-costume; usually you are
disorganised, _ab initio_, by the unexpectedness of the thing, you
are weighed down by your clothes and your purse, you are entangled
with sails, or clutched at by fellow-passengers, or sucked into
vortices.

In a big steamer accident, what chance is there for those who can swim?
Only an occasional Hercules can keep afloat in a heavy sea, and he
not for long. The most that swimming can do for you is to enable you
to save yourself in circumstances where you would very probably be
saved by somebody else. On the other hand, the ability to swim exposes
you to many risks you w|uld never have run had you been helpless in the
water. You swim in perilous places, you go out too far and cannot get back,
you expose yourself to the possibilities of cramp, you try to save
other people's lives and lose your own. There is also the temptation to
go to the Bath Club in Piccadilly and die of a too luxurious lunch.
On the whole, I believe as many swimmers are drowned as non-swimmers
when a general accident occurs, while the swimmers invite special
accidents of their own.

Do you deduce from this that I advise you not to learn to swim? Quite the
contrary: it is a delightful and invigorating exercise.

Only you must not imagine you are thereby armed against fate. Swimming for
amusement is as different from swimming for life as yachting on
the Thames is from crossing the Atlantic.

For my example of phrase-inversion I cannot do better than reprint
the open letter addressed by me--in the height of his success, and
in parody of his manner--to the great _phraseur_ and _farunix_ of
his little day; especially as some have thought to see in it proof
that prophecy has not yet died out of Israel.

MY DEAR SIR: I have never for one moment doubted that you are a
thinker, a poet, an art critic, a dramatist, a novelist, a wit, an
Athenian, and whatever else you say you are.

You are all these things--I confess it to your shame. I have always
looked down upon you with admiration. As an epigrammatist I consider
you only second to myself, though I admit that in the sentiment, "to be
intelligible is to be found out," I had the disadvantage of prior
publication.

When you point out that Art is infinitely superior to Nature, I feel
that you are cribbing from my unpublished poems, and I am quite at one
with you in regarding the sunset as a plagiarism. Nature is undoubtedly
a trespasser, and should be warned off without the option of a fine.

I say these things to make it quite clear that I speak to you more in anger
than in sorrow.

You are much too important to be discussed seriously, and if I take the
trouble to give you advice, it is only because I am so much younger than
you. I am certain you are ruining yourself by cigarette cynicism; far
better the rough, clay-pipe cynicism of a Swift. There is no smoke
without fire, but it requires very little fire to keep a cigarette
going.

The art of advertising oneself by playful puffs is not superior to
Nature.

But you are not really playful and innocent; it would be ungracious
to deny that you have all the corruption which the Stage has so
truly connected with the cigarette.

Still, isn't it about time you got divorced and settled down?

At present there are only two good plays in the world--"The Second
Book of Samuel" and "Lady Windermere's Fan"; surely you have power
to add to their number.

Try a quiet life of artistic production, and don't talk so much about Art.
We are tired of missionaries, whether they wear the white tie of
the Church or of Society, and it is a great pity we have not the
simple remedy of the savages, who eat theirs.

These few words of admonition would be incomplete if I did not
impress upon you that policy is the only honesty.

Art is short and life is long, and a stitch in time debars one from
having a new coat.

You can take a drink to the horse, but you can't make him well; and nothing
succeeds like failure. Vice is the only perfect form of virtue, and
virtue---- Easy there! Steady! Avast!

Belay! Which!

The Boeotians are dull folk, no doubt, but life would be dull without them.
Imagine a wilderness of Wildes! It would be like a sky all rainbows.
Then what beautiful whetstones the Boeotians are!

Abuse them, by all means, so long as they will pay for it. But what a blessing
that the minds capable of taking the artistic view of life are
rare enough to keep the race sane!

The coarser forms of egotism seem less baneful to the brain-tissue.

You claim to be an Athenian, but the Athenians did not smoke
cigarettes.

It is true that tobacco had not been invented, but this is a sordid detail
If Athens stands for anything in the history of culture, it is for
sanity, balance, strength.

Aristotle, at least as much an Athenian as any native of Ireland,
meditated about aesthetics, but he meditated also about politics, logic,
philosophy, political economy, ethics--everything. Socrates was a _causeur_,
but he was also a martyr.

No, after all the Beautiful is _not_ so important as you imagine
you are.

No doubt for a few billion years painters and musicians and epigrammatists
will remain the centre cf creation; but when the sun grows cold it is
conceivable that invaluable canvases may be used up as fuel, and that
humanity may sacrifice even your printed paradoxes to keep warmth a little
longer in its decrepit bones. The fact is, you are too _borné_, too
one-sided, to be accepted as as a "king of men."

You take such broad views that you grow narrow. What you want is a little
knowledge of life, and twelve months' hard labour.

But though topsy-turveydom may be attained with comparative ease,
it performs a lofty philosophical function.

Everything rusts by use. Our moral ideals grow mouldy if preached too
much; our stories stale if told too often. Conventionality is but a
living death. The other side of everything must be shown, the reverse of
the medal, the silver side of the shield as well as the golden. Convex
things are equally concave, and concave things convex.

The world was made round so that one man's "up" should be another man's
"down." The world is the Earthly Paradox, with four cardinal points
of mutual contradiction, all equally N., S., E., and W. 'T is thus a
symbol of all paradoxes, of all propositions in which mutually contradictory
things are true. Nay, paradox is the only truth, for it cannot be denied;
including, like the world, its own contradiction. Topsy-turveydom
unfolds our musty ideas to the sun and spreads them out the other
way. The man who reverses the Fifth Commandment and says that parents should
honour their children is not a flippant jester, but a philosophic thinker.
This is the true inwardness of the topsy-turvey humourist.

Topsy-turveydom has played a prodigious part in the progress of thought.
The history of philosophy and science is merely a tale of development
by topsy-turveydom, every new thinker simply contradicting his
predecessor.

Thales said water was the primitive principle of all things; so
Anaximander said it was air, whereupon Anaximenes said it was matter.

This made Pythagoras maintain it was not concrete matter but abstract
number; whereupon Xenophanes would have it that it was not number
but pure monistic being, and his disciple Zeno invented some
delightful and immortal paradoxes to prove that time and motion and
number and change have no existence, and only existence exists.

Up comes Heraclitus, proving that existence doesn't exist, and there is
nothing in the world but becoming: that so far from change not
existing, nothing exists but change.

It was now about time to return to earth, and so Empedocles and Democritus
came along with their Atoms; thereby provoking Anaxagoras into
bringing in Soul to explain things.

Things were going on thus satisfactorily when the Sophists appeared
on the scene to say that we didn't really know anything, because
all our knowledge was subjective, so Socrates insisted that it
didn't matter, because conduct was three-fourths of life.

Plato retorted that it did matter, and he invented an archetypal universe
of which this was a faint and distorted copy.
Naturally Aristotle must contradict him by founding empirical science,
which concerns itself only with this world. On his heels came the Stoics,
who would have nothing to do with science except in so far as it
made men virtuous, and who wanted to live soberly and severely.

This provoked the neo-Platonists into craving for ecstatic union
with the supernatural.

The transition period from ancient philosophy to modern was one long fight
between Nominalists and Realises, the one school teaching the exact
opposite of the other.

But it is in the history of Modern Philosophy and Modern Science that one
finds the strongest examples of this progress by paradox. The
triumph of topsy-turveydom was when Galileo, the Oscar Wilde of
Astronomy, declared that the earth went round the sun--a sheer piece
of inversion.

Darwin, the Barry Pain of Biology, asserted that man rose from the brutes,
and that, instead of creatures being adapted to conditions,
conditions adapted creatures.

Berkeley, the Lewis Carroll of Metaphysics, demonstrated that our bodies
are in our minds, and Kant, the W. S.

Gilbert of Philosophy, showed that space and time live in us. In
Literature it is the same story. To credit the scholars, Homer is no
longer a man, nor the Bible a book. As for Zechariah, it was written
before Genesis. This topsy-turveydom is a valuable organon of scientific
discovery. Take any accepted proposition, invert it, and you get
a New Truth.

Any historian who wishes to make a name has but to state that Ahab was a
saint and Elijah a Philistine--that Ananias was a realist and George
Washington a liar--that Charles I. was a Republican hampered by his official
position, and that the Armada defeated Drake--that Socrates died of
drinking, and that hemlock was what he gave Xantippe.

In fact, there is no domain of intellect in which a judicious cultivation
of topsy-turveydom may not be recommended. Ask why R. A.'

s are invariably colour-blind, and you become a great art critic,
while a random regret that Mendelssohn had no ear for music will
bring you to the very front in musical circles.

For the tail shall always wag the dog in the end, and Aristides
will never be able to remain in Athens if men will call him "the
Just."

_Tout passe, tout casse, tout lasse._ We are bored--and then comes
the topsy-turveyist's opportunity.

"To every action there is an equal and contrary reaction" is a sure
law of motion, and in the seesaw of speculation the "down" of to-day
is the "up" of to-morrow.

Next century we shall be sick of science; and indeed the spooks are
already returning for the funeral of this.

I shall end with
AN APOLOGY TO A CELEBRATED CHARACTER
As a synonym for sin, Jezebel, I 'll no longer drag you in, Jezebel.

Now I know your glorious mission was to spread the truths Phoenician,
Metaphoric life anew you shall begin, Jezebel; Metaphoric life anew
you shall begin,
Cultured Baalite, loyal wife, Jezebel, Martyr in a noble strife,
Jezebel; Protestant for light and sweetness 'gainst the narrow
incompleteness Of Elijah and Elisha's view of life, Jezebel; Of
Elijah and Elisha's view of life.

XVI

GHOST-STORIES
Why do ghosts walk at Christmas? What seduction hath Yule Tide for these
phantastic fellows, that it lures them from their warm fireplaces?

Is it that the cool snow is grateful after the fervours of their torrid zone,
where even the pyrometer would fail to record the temperature?

Is it that Dickens is responsible for the season, and that Marley's
ghost has set the fashion among the younger spooks?

The ghost of Hamlet's father was not so timed: he walked in all weathers.
Perhaps it is the supernatural associations of Christmas that create the
atmosphere in which ghosts live and move and have their being.

Or perchance it is at the season of family reunion that the thoughts
turn most naturally to vacant chairs and the presences that once
filled them. Or is it that the ghosts walk for me alone, by reason
that Christmas always brings me haunting thoughts of them? For my youth was
nursed upon the "penny dreadfuls" of an age that knew not "Chums,"
nor the "Boys' Own Paper."

They were not so very dreadful, those "penny dreadfuls," though
dreadfully disrespectful to schoolmasters, who were wont to rend
them in pieces in revenge.

The heroes of the stories began to urge on their wild career in the
school-room, where they executed practical jokes that would have
gladdened the heart of Mr.

Gilbert's merry Governor; the jokers were never found out unless they
confessed to spare another boy's feelings, and then the schoolmaster
was so touched that he spared theirs. After passing through five forms
and upsetting them all, they arrived at the sixth form, which
demanded a new volume to itself, called, let us say, "Tom Tiddler's
School-days Continued," and mainly devoted to cigars and flirtation.

"Tom Tiddler at College" followed--all "wines" and proctor-baiting, with Tom
Tiddler as stroke in the victorious 'Varsity eight. "Tom Tiddler
Abroad" was the next title, for the chronicle of a popular hero would run
on for years and years; and in this section red Indians and wild beasts
were rampant. 'T were long to trace the fortunes of Tom Tiddler
in all their thrilling involutions; but when he had painted the globe red
he married and settled down.

And then began "Young Tom Tiddler's School-days," "Young Tom Tiddler's
Schooldays Continued," "Young Tom Tiddler Abroad," and all the
weekly round of breathlessness; and never was proverb truer than
that the young cock cackles as the old cock crows.

By the time interest palled in the son a new generation of readers had
arisen, and the unblushing paper commenced to run "Tom Tiddler's
School-days" again.

So went the whirligig.

But at Christmas, when the blue-nosed waifs carol in the cold and
boys have extra pennies, Tom Tiddler himself slunk into the background,
lost in the ample folds of a "Double Number," the same blazoned
impudently, as though it did not demand double money.

But the extra pennyworth was all ghosts: ghosts, ghosts, ghosts; full
measure, pressed down and running over; not your Ibsenian shadows
of heredity, but real live ghosts, handsomely appointed, with chains
and groans and wavy wardrobes.

They lived in moated granges and ivy-wreathed castles, and paced snowy
terraces or dark, desolate corridors.

There was no talk then of psychic manifestations, or auras, or
telepathy, or spiritual aether.

Ghosts were solid realities in those days of the double number.

"To every man upon this earth death cometh soon or late," as Macaulay
sings, and it is no less impossible to escape spirit-rapping and all
the fascinating _menu_ of the Psychical Society. The epidemic, which
is contagious to the last degree, seizes its victims when they are
off guard, under pretense of amusing an idle hour, and ends by
robbing them of sleep and health; some it drives into lunatic asylums
and some into newspaper correspondence.

That thought-reading is not necessarily delusion or collusion is now generally
recognised; a _protégée_ of Mr. F.

W. Myers convinced me of the possibility of simple feats, though
not of her explanation of them.

She credited them to spirits, and wicked spirits to boot. In vain, I
pointed out that spirits who occupied themselves so docilely about matters
so trivial must be harmless creatures with no more guile than the
village idiot: she would concede no grain of goodness in their
composition.

Table-turning I had never seen. Ghosts I had never met, though I had
met plenty of persons who had their acquaintance. Like Lady Mary Wortley
Montagu--or is it Madame de Stäel[*]?

--I did not believe in them, but I was afraid of them. Premonitions I had
often had, but they had scarcely ever come true.

But now I am prepared to believe anything and everything, and to come up
to the Penitent Form--if there be one--of the Psychical Society
and to declare myself saved. I am already preparing a waxen image of a
notorious critic, to stick pins thereinto.
Not that I did not always believe the Spook Society was doing
necessary work in supplementing the crude treatises of our
psychologists, who are the most fatuous and self-complacent scientists
going.

[* Transcriber's note: So in original.

One would rather expect the accent tréma on the 'e', not on the
'a'.]

My conversion to a deeper interest in the obscurer psychic phenomena
befell through encountering a theatrical touring company in a dull
provincial town.

The barber told me about it--a dapper young Englishman of twenty-five, with
an unimpeachable necktie.

BARBER. "They're playing 'Macbeth' to-night, sir."
AUTHOR. (growling). "Indeed?"
B. "Yes, sir; I'm told it's pretty thick."
A. "What's pretty thick?"
B. "'Macbeth.'"
A. "What do you mean by 'thick'?"
B. "Full of gore, sir. I don't like those sort o' pieces.

I like opera--'Utopia' and that sort o' thing. You can see plenty o' thick
things in real life.
Orton Beg had sat idle an hour looking out of the window, her mind in
the mood for music, but bare of thought.

A gale was blowing without. The old elms in the Close were tossing their
stiff, bare arms about, the ground was strewed with branches and leaves
from the limes, and a watery wintry sun made the misery of the muddy
ground apparent, and accentuated the blight of the flowers and torn
untidiness of the creepers, and all the items which make autumn gardens so
desolate. The equinoctial gales had set in early that year. They began on
Evadne's wedding day with a fearful storm which raged all over the
country, and burst with especial violence upon Morningquest, and the wind
continued high, and showed no sign of abating. It was depressing weather,
and Mrs. Orton Beg sighed more than once unconsciously.

But presently the cathedral clock began to strike, and she raised her head
to listen. One, two, three, four, the round notes fell; then there was a
pause; and then the chime rolled out over the storm-stained city:

[Illustration: (musical notation); lyrics: He, watch-ing o-ver Is--ra--el,
slumbers not, nor sleeps.]

Mechanically Mrs. Orton Beg repeated the phrase with each note as it
floated forth, filling the silent spaces; and then she awoke with a start
to thought once more, and knew that she had been a long, long time alone.

She was going to ring, but at that moment a servant entered and announced:
"Mrs. and Miss Beale."

They were the wife and daughter of the Bishop of Morningquest, the one a
very pleasant, attractive elderly lady, the other a girl of seventeen,
like her mother, but with more character in her face.

"Ah, how glad I am to see you!" Mrs. Orton Beg exclaimed, trying to rise,
"and what a delicious breath of fresh air you have brought in with you!"

"My dear Olive, don't move," Mrs. Beale rejoined, preventing her. "We have
been nearly blown away walking this short distance. Just look at Edith's
hair."

"I feel quite tempest tossed," said Edith, getting up and going to a glass
before which she removed her hat, and let down her hair, which was the
colour of burnished brass, and fell to her knees in one straight heavy
coil without a wave.

"You remind me of some Saxon Edith I have seen in a picture," said Mrs.
Orton Beg, looking at her admiringly. "But, dear child," her mother
deprecated, "should you make a dressing room of the drawing room?"

"I know Mrs. Orton Beg will pardon me," said Edith, rolling her hair up
deftly and neatly as she spoke, with the air of a privileged person quite
at home.

Mrs. Orton Beg smiled at her affectionately; but before she could speak
the door opened once more, and the servant announced: "Lord Dawne."

And there entered a grave, distinguished looking man between thirty and
forty years of age, apparently, with black hair, and deep blue eyes at
once penetrating and winning in expression.

Mrs. Orton Beg greeted him with pleasure, Mrs. Beale with pleasure also,
but with more ceremony, Edith quite simply and naturally, and then he sat
down. He was in riding dress, with his whip and hat in his hand.

"This is an unexpected pleasure. I did not know you were at Morne," said
Mrs. Orton Beg. "Is Claudia with you?"

"No, I have only come for a few days," Lord Dawne replied, "I came to see
Adeline specially, but they don't return from town till to-morrow. They
have all been assisting at the marriage of a niece of yours, I hear, and
the Heavenly Twins have been prolonging the festivities on their own
account. Adeline wrote to me in despair, and I have come to see if I can
be of any use. My sister," he added, turning to Mrs. Beale with his
bright, almost boyish smile, which was like his nephew Diavolo's, and made
them both irresistible--"my sister flatters herself that I have some
influence with the children, and as it is quite certain that nobody else
has, I am careful not to dispel the illusion. It is a comfort to her. But
the twins will not allow me to deceive myself upon that head. They put me
in my place every time I see them. The last time we had a serious talk
together I noticed that Diavolo was thinking deeply, and hoped for a
moment that it was about what I was saying; but that, apparently, had not
interested him at all, for I had the curiosity to ask, just to see if I
had, perchance, made any impression, and discovered that he had had
something else in his mind the whole time. 'I was just wondering,' he
answered, 'if you care much about being Duke of Morningquest.' 'No, not
very much,' I assured him; 'why?' 'Well, I was pretty certain you didn't,'
he replied; 'and, you see, _I_ do; so I was just thinking couldn't
you remain as you are when grandpapa dies, and let me walk into the title?
Then I'd give Angelica the Hamilton House property, and it would be very
jolly for all of us.' 'But, look here,' Angelica broke in, in her
energetic way, 'if you're going to be a duke I won't be left plain Miss
Hamilton-Wells.' 'You couldn't be "plain" Miss anything,' Diavolo
gallantly assured her, bowing in the most courtly way. But Angelica said,
with more force than refinement, that that was all rot, and then Diavolo
lost his temper and pulled her hair, and she got hold of his and dragged
him out of the room by his--my presence of course counted for nothing. And
the next I saw of them they were on their ponies in a secluded grassy
glade of the forest, tilting at each other with long poles for the
dukedom. Angelica says she means to beat Demosthenes hollow--I use her own
phraseology to give character to the quotation; that delivering orations
with a natural inclination, to stammering was nothing to get over compared
to the disabilities which being a girl imposes upon her; but she means to
get over them all by hook, which she explains as being the proper
development of her muscles and physique generally, and by crook, which she
defines as circumventing the slave drivers of her sex, a task which she
seems to think can easily be accomplished by finessing."

"And what was the last thing?" Mrs. Orton Beg inquired, smiling
indulgently.

"Oh, that was very simple," Lord Dawne rejoined. "Diavolo, dressed in
velvet, was caught and taken up by a policeman for recklessly driving a
hansom in Oxford Street, Angelica being inside the same disguised in
something of her mother's."

"I wonder it was Angelica who went inside!" Mrs. Orton Beg exclaimed.

"Well, that was what her mother said," Lord Dawne replied; "and both her
parents seem to think the matter was not nearly so bad as it might have
been in consequence. Mr. Hamilton-Wells had to pay a fine for the furious
driving, and use all his influence with the Press to keep the thing out of
the papers."

"But where did the children get the hansom?" Mrs. Beale begged to be
informed.

"I regret to say that they hailed it through the dining room window, and
plied the driver with raw brandy until his venal nature gave in to their
earnestly persuasive eloquence and the contents of their purses, and he
consented to let Diavolo 'just try what it was like to sit up on that high
box,' Angelica having previously got inside, and, of course, the moment
the young scamp had the reins in his hands he drove off full tilt."

"Oh, dear, _poor_ Lady Adeline!" Mrs. Beale exclaimed.

Lord Dawne smiled again, and changed the subject. "Did you feel the storm
much here?" he asked. "My trees have suffered a great deal, I am sorry to
say."

"Ah, that reminds me," Mrs. Beale began. "A very strange and solemn thing
happened on the day of the storm; have you heard of it, Olive?"

"No," Mrs. Orton Beg answered with interest. "What was it?"

"Well, you know the dean's brother has a large family of daughters," Mrs.
Beale replied, "and they had a very charming governess, Miss Winstanley, a
lady by birth, and an accomplished person, and extremely
_spirituelle_. Well, on the morning of the storm she was sitting at
work with one of her pupils in the schoolroom, when another came in from
the garden, and uttered an exclamation of surprise when she saw Miss
Winstanley, 'How did you get in, and take your things off so quickly?' she
said. 'I have not been out,' Miss Winstanley answered. 'Why, I saw you--I
ran past you over by the duck pond!' 'Dear child, you must be mistaken. I
haven't been out to-day,' the governess answered, smiling. Well, that
child got out her work and sat down, but she had hardly done so when
another came in, and also exclaimed: 'Oh, Miss Winstanley! How _did_
you get here? I saw you standing looking out of the window at the bottom
of the picture gallery as I ran past this minute.' 'I must have a double,'
said Miss Winstanley lightly. 'But it _was_ you,' the child insisted;
'I saw you quite well, flowers and all.' The governess was wearing some
scarlet geranium. 'You know what they say if people are seen like that
where they have never been in the body?' she said jokingly. 'They say it
is a sign that that person is going to die.' In the afternoon," Mrs. Beale
continued, lowering her voice and glancing round involuntarily--and in the
momentary pause the rush of the gale without sounded obtrusively--"in the
afternoon of that same day she went out alone for a walk, and did not
return, and they became alarmed at last, and sent some men to search for
her when the storm was at its height, and they found her lying across a
stile. She had been killed by the branch of a tree falling on her."

"How do you explain that?" Mrs. Orton Beg said softly to Lord Dawne.

"I should not attempt to explain it," he answered, rising.

"Must you go?"

"Yes, I am sorry to say. Claudia and Ideala charged me with many messages
for you."

"They are together as usual, and well, I trust?"

"Yes," he answered, "and most anxious to hear a better account of your
foot."

"Ah, I hope to be able to walk soon," she said, holding out her hand to
him.

"What a charming man he is," Mrs. Beale remarked when he had gone. "There
is no hope of his marrying, I suppose," she added, trying not to look at
her daughter.

"Oh, no!" Mrs. Orton Beg exclaimed in an almost horrified tone.

Lord Dawne's friends made no secret of his grand and chivalrous devotion
to the distinguished woman known to them all as Ideala. Every one of them
was aware, although he had never let fall a word on the subject, that he
had remained single on her account--every one but Ideala herself. She
never suspected it, or thought of love at all in connection with Lord
Dawne--and, besides, she was married.

When her friends had gone that day Mrs. Orton Beg sat long in the
gathering dusk, watching the newly lighted fire burn up, and thinking. She
was thinking of Evadne chiefly, wondering why she had had no news of her,
why her sister Elizabeth did not write, and tell her all about the wedding;
and she was just on the verge of anxiety--in that state when various
possibilities of trouble that might have occurred to account for delays
begin to present themselves to the mind, when all at once, without hearing
anything, she became conscious of a presence near her, and looking up she
was startled to see Evadne herself.

"My dear child!" she gasped, "what has happened? Why are you here?"

"Nothing has happened, auntie; don't be alarmed," Evadne answered. "I am
here because I have been a fool."

She spoke quietly but with concentrated bitterness, then sat down and
began to take off her gloves with that exaggerated show of composure which
is a sign in some people of suppressed emotion.

Her face was pale, but her eyes were bright, and the pupils were dilated.

"I have come to claim your hospitality, auntie," she pursued, "to ask you
for shelter from the world for a few days, _because_ I have been a
fool. May I stay?"

"Surely, dear child," Mrs. Orton Beg replied, and then she waited,
mastering the nervous tremor into which the shock of Evadne's sudden
appearance had thrown her with admirable self-control. And here again the
family likeness between aunt and niece was curiously apparent. Both masked
their agitation because both by temperament were shy, and ashamed to show
strong feeling.

Evadne looked into the fire for a little, trying to collect herself. "I
knew what was right," she began at last in a low voice, "I knew we should
take nothing for granted, we should never be content merely to feel and
suppose and hope for the best in matters about which we should know
exactly. And yet I took no trouble to ascertain. I fell in love, and liked
the sensation, and gave myself up to it unreservedly. Certainly, I was a
fool--there is no other word for it."

"But are you married, Evadne?" Mrs. Orton Beg asked in a voice rendered
unnatural by the rapid beating of her heart.

"Let me tell you, auntie, all about it," Evadne answered hoarsely. She
drew her chair a little closer to the fire, and spread her hands out to
the blaze. There was no other light in the room by this time. The wind
without howled dismally still, but at intervals, as if with an effort.
During one of its noisiest bursts the cathedral clock began to strike, and
hushed it, as it were, suddenly. It seemed to be listening, to be waiting,
and Evadne waited and listened too, raising her head. There was a
perceptible, momentary pause, then came the chime, full, round, mournful,
melodious, yet glad too, in the strength of its solemn assurance, filling
the desolate regions of sorrow and silence with something of hope whereon
the weary mind might repose:

[Illustration: (musical notation); lyrics: He, watch-ing o-ver Is--ra--el,
slumbers not, nor sleeps.]

When the last reverberation of the last note had melted out of hearing,
Evadne sighed; then she straightened herself, as if collecting her energy,
and began to speak.

"Yes, I am married," she said, "but when I went to change my dress after
the ceremony I found this letter. It was intended, you see, to reach me
some days before it did, but unfortunately it was addressed to Fraylingay,
and time was lost in forwarding it." She handed it to her aunt, who raised
her eyebrows when she saw the writing, as if she recognized it, hastily
drew the letter from its envelope, and held it so that the blaze fell upon
it while she read. Evadne knelt on the hearthrug, and stirred the fire,
making it burn up brightly.

Mrs. Orton Beg returned the letter to the envelope when she had read it.
"What did you do?" she said.

"I read it before I went downstairs, and at first I could not think what
to do, so we drove off together, but on the way to the station it suddenly
flashed upon me that the proper thing to do would be to go at once and
hear all that there was to tell, and fortunately Major Colquhoun gave me
an opportunity of getting away without any dispute. He went to see about
something, leaving me in the carriage, and I just got out, walked round
the station, took a hansom, and drove off to the General Post Office to
telegraph to my people."

"But why didn't you go home?"

"For several reasons," Evadne answered, "the best being that I never
thought of going home. I wanted to be alone and think. I fancied that at
home they either could not or would not tell me anything of Major
Colquhoun's past life, and I was determined to know the truth exactly. And
I can't tell you how many sayings of my father's recurred to me all at
once with a new significance, and made me fear that there was some
difference between his point of view and mine on the subject of a suitable
husband. He told me himself that Major Colquhoun had been quite frank
about his past career, and then, when I came to think, it appeared to me
clearly that it was the frankness which had satisfied my father; the
career itself was nothing. You heard how pleased they were about my
engagement?"

"Yes," Mrs. Orton Beg answered slowly, "and I confess I was a little
surprised when I heard from your mother that your _fiancé_ had been
'wild' in his youth, for I remembered some remarks you made last year
about the kind of man you would object to marry, and it seemed to me from
the description that Major Colquhoun was very much that kind of man."

"Then why didn't you warn me?" Evadne exclaimed.

"I don't know whether I quite thought it was a subject for warning," Mrs.
Orton Beg answered, "and at any rate, girls _do_ talk in that way
sometimes, not really meaning it. I thought it was mere _youngness_
on our part, and theory; and I don't know now whether I quite approve of
your having been told--of this new departure, she added, indicating the
letter.

"_I_ do," said Evadne decidedly. "I would stop the imposition,
approved of custom, connived at by parents, made possible by the state of
ignorance in which we are carefully kept--the imposition upon a girl's
innocence and inexperience of a disreputable man for a husband."

Mrs. Orton Beg was startled by this bold assertion, which was so
unprecedented in her experience that for a moment she could not utter a
word; and when she did speak she avoided a direct reply, because she
thought any discussion on the subject of marriage, except from the
sentimental point of view, was indelicate.

"But tell me your position exactly," she begged--"what you did next: why
you are here!"

"I went by the night mail North," Evadne answered, "and saw them. They
were very kind. They told me everything. I can't repeat the details; they
disgust me."

"No, pray don't!" Mrs. Orton Beg exclaimed hastily. She had no mind for
anything unsavoury.

"They had been abroad, you know," Evadne pursued; "Otherwise I should have
heard from them as soon as the engagement was announced. They hoped to be
in time, however. They had no idea the marriage would take place so soon."

Mrs. Orton Beg reflected for a little, and then she asked in evident
trepidation, for she had more than a suspicion of what the reply would be:
"Anc what are you going to do?"

"Decline to live with him," Evadne answered.

This was what Mrs. Orton Beg had begun to suspect, but there is often an
element of surprise in the confirmation of our shrewdest suspicions, and
now she sat upright, leant forward, and looked at her niece aghast.
"_What_?" she demanded.

"I shall decline to live with him," Evadne repeated with emphasis.

Mrs. Orton Beg slowly resumed her reclining position, acting as one does
who has heard the worst, and realizes that there is nothing to be done but
to recover from the shock.

"I thought you loved him," she ventured, after a prolonged pause.

"Yes, so did I," Evadne answered, frowning--"but I was mistaken. It was a
mere affair of the senses, to be put off by the first circumstance
calculated to cause a revulsion of feeling by lowering him in my
estimation--a thing so slight that, after reading the letter, as we drove
to the station--even so soon! I could see him as he is. I noticed at once--
but it was for the first time--I noticed that, although his face is
handsome, the expression of it is not noble at all." She shuddered as at
the sight of something repulsive. "You see," she explained, "my taste is
cultivated to so fine an extent, I require something extremely
well-flavoured for the dish which is to be the _pièce de resistance_
of my life-feast. My appetite is delicate, it requires to be tempted, and
a husband of that kind, a moral leper"--she broke off with a gesture,
spreading her hands, palms outward, as if she would fain put some horrid
idea far from her. "Besides, marrying a man like that, allowing him an
assured position in society, is countenancing vice, and"--she glanced
round apprehensively, then added in a fearful whisper--"_helping to
spread it_."

Mrs. Orton Beg knew in her head that reason and right were on Evadne's
side, but she felt in her heart the full force of the custom and prejudice
that would be against her, and shrank appalled by the thought of what the
cruel struggle to come must be if Evadne persisted in her determination.
In view of this, she sat up in her chair once more energetically, prepared
to do her best to dissuade her; but then again she relapsed, giving in to
a doubt of her own capacity to advise in such an emergency, accompanied by
a sudden and involuntary feeling of respect for Evadne's principles,
however peculiar and unprecedented they might be, and for the strength of
character which had enabled her so far to act upon them. "You must obey
your own conscience, Evadne," was what she found herself saying at last.
"I will help you to do that. I would rather not influence you. You may be
right. I cannot be sure--and yet--I don't agree with you. For I know if I
could have my husband back with me, I would welcome him, even if he
were--a leper." Evadne compressed her lips in steady disapproval. "I
should think only of his future. I should forgive the past."

"That is the mistake you good women all make," said Evadne. "You set a
detestably bad example. So long as women like you will forgive anything,
men will do anything. You have it in your power to set up a high standard
of excellence for men to reach in order to have the privilege of
associating with you. There is this quality in men, that they will have
the best of everything; and if the best wives are only to be obtained by
being worthy of them, they will strive to become so. As it is, however,
why should they? Instead of punishing them for their depravity, you
encourage them in it by overlooking it; and besides," she added, "you must
know that there is no past in the matter of vice. The consequences become
hereditary, and continue from generation to generation."

Again Mrs. Orton Beg felt herself checked.

"Where did you hear all this, Evadne!" she asked,

"I never heard it. I read--and I thought," she answered. "But I am only
now beginning to understand," she added. "I suppose moral axioms are
always the outcome of pained reflection. Knowledge cries to us in vain as
a rule before experience has taken the sharp edge off our egotism--by
experience, I mean the addition of some personal feeling to our
knowledge."

"I don't understand you in the least, Evadne," Mrs. Orton Beg replied.

"Your husband was a good man," Evadne answered indirectly. "You have never
thought about what a woman ought to do who has married a bad one--in an
emergency like mine, that is. You think I should act as women have been
always advised to act in such cases, that I should sacrifice myself to
save that one man's soul. I take a different view of it. I see that the
world is not a bit the better for centuries of self-sacrifice on the
woman's part and therefore I think it is time we tried a more effectual
plan. And I propose now to sacrifice the man instead of the woman."

Mrs. Orton Beg was silent.

"Have you nothing to say to me, auntie?" Evadne asked at last,
caressingly.

"I do not like to hear you talk so, Evadne. Every word you say seems to
banish something--something from this room--something from my life to
which I cling. I think it is my faith in love--and loving. You may be
right, but yet--the consequences! the struggle, if we must resist! It is
best to submit. It is better not to know."

"It is easier to submit--yes; it is disagreeable to know," Evadne
translated.

There was another pause, then Mrs. Orton Beg broke out: "Don't make me
think about it. Surely I have suffered enough? Disagreeable to know! It is
torture. If I ever let myself dwell on the horrible depravity that goes on
unchecked, the depravity which you say we women license by ignoring it
when we should face and unmask it, I should go out of my mind. I do
know--we all know; how can we live and not know? But we don't think about
it--we can't--we daren't. See! I try always to keep my own mind in one
attitude, to keep it filled for ever with holy and beautiful thoughts.
When I am alone, I listen for the chime, and when I have repeated it to
myself slowly--

  He, watching over Israel, slumbers not nor sleeps--

my heart swells. I leave all that is inexplicable to Him, and thank him
for the love and the hope with which he feeds my heart and keeps it from
hardening. I thank him too," she went on hoarsely, "for the terrible
moments when I feel my loss afresh, those early morning moments, when the
bright sunshine and the beauty of all things only make my own barren life
look all the more bare in its loneliness; when my soul struggles to free
itself from the shackles of the flesh that it may spread its wings to meet
that other soul which made earth heaven for me here, and will, I know,
make all eternity ecstatic as a dream for me hereafter. It is good to
suffer, yes; but surely I suffer enough? My husband--if I cry to him, he
will not hear me; if I go down on my knees beside his grave, and dig my
arms in deep, deep, I shall not reach him. I cannot raise him up again to
caress him, or move the cruel weight of earth from off his breast. The
voice that was always kind will gladden me no more; the arms that were so
willing to protect--the world--just think how big it is! and if I traverse
it every yard, I shall not find him. He is not anywhere in all this huge
expanse. Ah, God! the agony of yearning, the ache, the ache; why must I
live?"

"Auntie!" Evadne cried. "I am selfish." She knelt down beside her and held
her hand. "I have made you think of your own irreparable loss, compared
with which I know my trouble is so small. Forgive me."

Mrs. Orton Beg put her arms round the girl's neck and kissed her: "Forgive
_me_" she said. "I am so weak, Evadne, and you--ah! you are strong."


CHAPTER XV.


The Fraylings had sent their children and the majority of their servants
back to Fraylingay the day after the wedding, but had decided to stay in
London themselves with Major Colquhoun until Evadne wrote to relieve their
anxiety, which was extreme, and gave them some information about her
movements and intentions.

Mr. Frayling spent most of the interval in prancing up and down. He
recollected all his past grievances, real and imaginary, and recounted
them, and also speculated about those that were to come, and mentioned the
number of things he was always doing for everybody, the position he had to
keep up and consider for the sake of his family, the scandal there would
be if this story got about; and described in one breath both his
determination to hush it up, and his conviction that it would be utterly
impossible to do so. Whenever the postman knocked he went to the door to
look for a letter, and coming back empty-handed each time, he invariably
remarked that it was disgraceful, simply disgraceful, and he had never
heard of such a thing in all his life. There was blame and severity in his
attitude toward poor Mrs. Frayling; he seemed to insinuate that she might
and should have done something to prevent all this; while there was a
mixture of sympathy, deprecation, and apology in his manner to his
son-in-law, combined with a certain air of absolving himself from all
responsibility in the matter.

Major Colquhoun's own attitude was wholly enigmatical. He smoked cigars,
read novels, and said nothing except in answer to such remarks as were
specially addressed to him, and then he confined himself to the shortest
and simplest form of rejoinder possible.

"The dear fellow's patience is exemplary," Mrs. Frayling remarked to her
husband as they went to bed one night. "He conceals his own feelings
_quite_, and never utters a complaint."

"Humph!" grunted Mr. Frayling, who scented some reproach in this remark;
"if the dear fellow does not suffer from impatience, and has no feelings
to conceal, it is not much marvel if he utters no complaint. I believe he
doesn't care a rap, and is only thinking of how to get out of the whole
business."

"Oh, my dear, how _dreadful_" Mrs. Frayling exclaimed. "I am sure you
are quite mistaken. You don't understand him at all."

Mr. Frayling shrugged his shoulders and snorted. He despised feminine
conclusions too much to reply to them, but not nearly enough to be wholly
unmoved by them.

Mrs. Frayling spent the three days in sitting still, embroidering silk
flowers on a satin ground, and watering them well with her tears. But on
the morning of the fourth day, by the first post, letters arrived which
put an end to their suspense. One was from Mrs. Orton Beg and the other
from Evadne herself. Mrs. Frayling read them aloud at the breakfast table,
and the three sat for an hour in solemn conclave, considering them.

Mrs. Orton Beg had had time to recover herself and reflect before she
wrote, and the consequence was some modification of her first impression.

"MY DEAR ELIZABETH:

"Evadne is here; she arrived this afternoon. On her wedding day she
received a letter from a lady, whose name I am not allowed to mention
here, but written under the impression that Evadne was being kept in
ignorance of Major Colquhoun's past life, and offering to give her any
information that had been withheld so that she might not be blindly
entrapped into marrying him under the delusion that he was a worthy man.
The letter arrived too late, but Evadne went off nevertheless on the spur
of the moment to make further inquiries, the result of which is great
indignation on her part for having been allowed to marry a man of such
antecedents, and a determination not to live with him. She wishes to stay
here with me for he present, and I am very glad to have her. I give her an
asylum, but I shall not speak a word to influence her decision in any way
if I can help it. It is a matter of conscience with her, and I perceive
that her moral consciousness and mine are not quite the same; but in the
present state of my ignorance, I feel that it would be presumption on my
part to set my own up as superior, and therefore I think it better not to
interfere in any way.

"You need not be in the least anxious about Evadne. She is quite well, has
an excellent appetite, and is not at all inclined to pose as a martyr. I
confess I should have thought myself she would have suffered more in the
first days of her disillusion, for she certainly was very much in love
with Major Colquhoun; but her principles are older than her acquaintance
with him, and ingrained principle is a force superior to passion, it
seems--which is as it should be.

"I am sorry for you all, and for you especially, dear, in this dilemma,
for I know how you will feel it; and I am the more sorry because I cannot
say a single word which would relieve the state of perplexity you must be
in, or be in any way a comfort to you.

"Your loving sister,

"OLIVE ORTON BEG."

Evadne's letter ran thus:

"THE CLOSE, MORNINGQUEST, 4th October.

"MY DEAR FATHER AND MOTHER:

"Aunt Olive has kindly written to tell you exactly why I am here, so that
my letter need only be a supplement to hers. For whatever trouble and
anxiety I may have caused you, forgive me. The thought of it will be a
pang to me as long as I live.

"Since I left you I have been fully informed of circumstances in Major
Colquhoun's past career which make it impossible for me to live with him
as his wife. I find that I consented to marry him under a grave
misapprehension of his true character--that he is not at all a proper
person for a young girl to associate with, and that in point of fact his
mode of life has very much resembled that of one of those old-fashioned
heroes, Roderick Random or Tom Jones, specimens of humanity whom I hold in
peculiar and especial detestation.

"I consider I should be wanting in all right feeling if I held myself
bound to him by vows which I took in my ignorance of his history. But I am
afraid there will be some difficulty about the legal business. Kindly find
out for me what will be the best arrangement to make for our separation,
and tell me also if I ought to write to Major Colquhoun myself. I should
like it better if my father would relieve me of this dreadful necessity.

"Until we have arranged matters, I should prefer to stay here with Aunt
Olive. I am very well, and happier too, than I should have expected to be
after the shock of such a disappointment, though perhaps less so than I
ought in gratitude to be, considering the merciful deliverance I have had
from what would have been the shipwreck of my life.

"Your affectionate daughter,

"EVADNE."

"Good Heavens! good Heavens!" Mr. Frayling ejaculated several times.

Major Colquhoun had curled his moustache during the reading of the letter,
with the peculiar set expression of countenance he was in the habit of
assuming to mask his emotions.

"What language! what ideas!" Mr. Frayling proceeded. "I have been much
deceived in that unhappy child," and he shook his head at his wife
severely, as if it were her fault.

Major Colquhoun muttered something about having been taken in himself.

After the reading of the letter, Mrs. Frayling's comely plump face looked
drawn and haggard. She could not utter a word at first, and had even
exhausted her stock of tears. All at once, however, she recovered her
voice, and gave sudden utterance to a determination.

"I must go to that child!" she exclaimed. "I must--I must go at once."

"You shall do no such thing," her husband thundered. He had no reason in
the world for opposing the motherly impulse; but it relieves the male of
certain species to roar when he is irritated, and the relief is all the
greater when he finds some sentient creature to roar at, that will shrink
from the noise, and be awed by it.

Mrs. Frayling looked up at him pathetically, then riveted her eyes upon
the tablecloth, and rocked herself to and fro, but answered never a word.

Major Colquhoun, with the surface sympathy of sensual men, who resent
anything that produces a feeling of discomfort in themselves, felt sorry
for her, and relieved the tension by asking what was to be said in reply
to Evadne's letter.

This led to a discussion of the subject, which was summarily ended by Mr.
Frayling, who deputed to his wife the task of answering the letter,
without allowing her any choice in the matter. It was never his way to do
anything disagreeable if he could insist upon her doing it for him.

But Mrs. Frayling was nothing loth upon this occasion.

"Well," she began humbly, "I undertake the task since you wish it, but I
should have thought a word from you would have gone further than anything
I can say. However,"--she ventured to lift a hopeful head,--"I have
certainly always been able to manage Evadne,"--she turned to Major
Colquhoun,--"I can assure you, George, that child has never given me a
moment's anxiety in her life; and,"--she added in a broken voice,--"I
never, never thought that she would live to quote books to her parents."

Mr. Frayling found in his own inclinations a reason for everything. He was
very tired of being shut up in London, and he therefore decided that they
should go back to Fraylingay at once, and suggested that Major Colquhoun
should follow them in a few days if Evadne had not in the meantime come to
her senses. Major Colquhoun agreed to this. He would have hidden himself
anywhere, done anything to keep his world in ignorance of what had
befallen him. Even a man's independence is injured by excesses. As the
tissues waste, the esteem of men is fawned for instead of being honestly
earned, criticism is deprecated, importance is attached to the babbling of
blockheads, and even to the opinion of fools. What should have been
self-respect in Major Colquhoun had degenerated into a devouring vanity,
which rendered him thin-skinned to the slightest aspersion. He had married
Evadne in order to win the credit of having secured an exceptionally young
and attractive wife, and now all he thought of was "what fellows would
say" if they knew of the slight she had put upon him. To conceal this was
the one object of his life at present, the thought that forever absorbed
him.

Mr. Frayling felt that it would be a relief to get away from his
son-in-law: "If the fellow would only speak!" he exclaimed when he was
alone with his wife. "What the deuce he's always thinking about I can't
imagine."

"He is in great grief," Mrs. Frayling maintained.

As soon as she was settled at Fraylingay she wrote to Evadne:

"MY POOR MISGUIDED CHILD:

"Your whole action since your marriage and your extraordinary resolution
have occasioned your dear father, your poor husband, and myself the very
greatest anxiety and pain. We have grave fears for your sanity. I have
never in my life heard of a young lady acting in such a way. Your poor
husband has been very sweet and good all through this dreadful trial. He
very much fears the ridicule which of course would attach to him if his
brother officers hear what has happened; but so far, I am thankful to say,
no inkling of the true state of the case has leaked out. The servants
talk, of course, but they _know_ nothing. Thus, then, a thought which
does not pass through the thin fountain-stream of Consciousness may yet
produce the same muscular twitches as if it were clearly present to the
presiding Ego. In the case of the "Road to Fortune," the name must have
really sunk into my brain, although I was unaware of it, and probably
could not have consciously recalled it to save my life. The stage-manager
subsequently reminded me that he had in my presence regretted that
the "Road to Fortune" had done such good business, since there would probably
be a reaction. _I_ have only a recollection of his telling me that the
success of the preceding piece would hurt his--my Consciousness had
grasped at the intellectual side of his remark, my Sub-Consciousness had
absorbed the irrelevant fact of the name of the piece.[Footnote: What he did say exactly was: "She went of her own accord, and
she must come back of her own accord, or not at all. Just as she likes.
_I_ shall not trouble about her."]

And he is as ready, I am sure, as your father and myself are, to forgive
you freely for all the trouble and anxiety you have caused him, and is
waiting to welcome you to his heart and home with open arms.

"And, Evadne, remember: a woman has it in her power to change even a
reprobate into a worthy man--and I know from the way George talks that he
is far from being a reprobate now. And just think what a work that is! The
angels in heaven rejoice over the sinner that repents, and you have before
you a sphere of action which it should gladden your heart to contemplate.
I don't deny that there _were_ things in George's past life which it
is very sad to think of, but women have always much to bear. It is our
_cross_, and you must take up yours patiently and be sure that you
will have your reward. _Whom the Lord loveth he chasteneth_. I wish
now that I had talked to you on the subject before you were married, and
prepared you to meet some forms of wickedness in a proper spirit; you
would not then have been at the mercy of the wicked woman who has caused
all this mischief. She is some clever designing adventuress, I suppose,
and she must have told you dreadful things which you should never have
heard of at your age, and I suspect that jealousy is at the bottom of it
all. She may herself have been cast off in her wickedness for my own sweet
innocent child's sake. When I think of all the happiness she has
destroyed, of these dark days following such bright prospects, I could see
her _whipped_, Evadne, I could indeed. Everything had arranged itself
so beautifully. He is an excellent match. The Irish property, which he
_must_ have, is one of the best in the country, and as there is only
one fragile child between him and the Scotch estates, you might almost
venture to calculate upon becoming mistress of them also. And then, he
certainly is a handsome and attractive man of most charming manners, so
what more do you want? He is a good Churchman too. You know how regularly
he accompanied you to every service. And, _really_ if you will just
think for a _moment_, I am sure you will see yourself that you have
made a terrible mistake, and repent while it is called today. But we do
not blame you entirely, dear. You have surprised and distressed us, but we
all freely forgive you, and if you will come back at once, you need fear
_no_ reproaches, for not another word will _ever_ be said on the
subject.--I am, dear child,

"Ever your loving mother,

"ELIZABETH FRAYLING."

"P.S.--Your father is so horrified at your conduct that he declares he
will neither write to you nor speak to you until you return to your duty."

Evadne took a day and a half to consider her mother's letter, and then she
wrote the following reply:

"THE CLOSE, MORNINGQUEST, 9th October.

"MY DEAR MOTHER:

"I answer your postscript first, because I am cut to the quick by my
father's attitude. I was sure that, large-minded and just as I have always
thought him, he would allow that a woman is entitled to her own point of
view in a matter which, to begin with, concerns her own happiness more
than anybody else's, and that if she accepts a fallen angel for a husband,
knowing him to be such, she shows a poor appreciation of her own worth. I
am quite ready to rejoice over any sinner that repents if I may rejoice as
the angels themselves do, that is to say, at a safe distance. I would not
be a stumbling block in the way of any man's reformation. I only maintain
that I am not the right person to undertake such a task, and that if women
are to do it at all, they should be mothers or other experienced persons,
and not young wives.

"I am pained that you should make such a cruel insinuation against the
character and motives of the lady whom I have to bless for my escape from
a detestable position. But even if she had been the kind of character you
describe, do I understand you to mean that it would have been a triumph
for me to have obtained the reversion of her equally culpable associate?
that I ought, in fact, to have gratefully accepted a secondhand sort of
man! You would not counsel a son of yours to marry a society woman of the
same character as Major Colquhoun, and neither more nor less degraded, for
the purpose of reforming her, would you, mother? I know you would not. And
as a woman's soul is every bit as precious as a man's, one sees what cant
this talk of reformation is. It seems to me that such cases as Major
Colquhoun's are for the clergy, who have both experience and authority,
and not for young wives to tackle. And, at any rate, although reforming
reprobates may be a very noble calling, I do not, at nineteen, feel that I
have any vocation for it; and I would respectfully suggest that you,
mother, with your experience, your known piety, and your sweet
disposition, would be a much more suitable person to reform Major
Colquhoun than I should be. His past life seems to inspire you with no
horror; the knowledge of it makes _me_ shrink from him. My husband
must be a Christ-like man. I have very strong convictions, you see, on the
subject of the sanctity and responsibilities of marriage. There are
certain conditions which I hold to be essential on both sides. I hold also
that human beings are sacred and capable of deep desecration, and that
marriage, their closest bond, is sacred too, the holiest relationship in
life, and one which should only be entered upon with the greatest care,
and in the most reverent spirit. I see no reason why marriage should be a
lottery. But evidently Major Colquhoun's views upon the subject differ
widely from mine, and it seems to me utterly impossible that we should
ever be able to accommodate ourselves to each other's principles. Had I
known soon enough that he did not answer to my requirements, I should have
dismissed him at once, and thought no more about him, and all this misery
would never have occurred; but having been kept in ignorance, I consider
that I was inveigled into consenting, that the vow I made was taken under
a grave misapprehension, that therefore there is nothing either holy or
binding in it, and that every law of morality absolves me from fulfilling
my share of the contract. This, of course, is merely considering marriage
from the higher and most moral point of view; but even when I think of it
in the lower and more ordinary way, I find the same conclusion forces
itself upon me. For there certainly is no romance in marrying a man old
already in every emotion, between whom and me the recollection of some
other woman would be forever intruding. My whole soul sickens at the
possibility, and I think that it must have been women old in emotion
themselves who first tolerated the staleness of such lovers.

"I feel that my letter is very inadequate, mother. The thought that I am
forced to pain and oppose you distracts me. But I have tried
conscientiously to show you exactly what my conviction and principles are,
and I do think I have a right to beg that you will at least be tolerant,
however much you may disagree with me.

"Your affectionate daughter,

"EVADNE."

Mrs. Frayling's reply to this letter arrived by return of post, red hot.
Evadne, glancing at the envelope, frowned to find herself addressed as
"Mrs. Colquhoun." The name had not struck her on her mother's first
communication, which was also the first occasion upon which she had been
so addressed, and it had not occurred to her until now that she would have
to be "Mrs. Colquhoun" from thenceforth, whether she liked it or not. She
felt it to be unjust, distinctly; a gross infringement of the liberty of
the subject, and she opened her mother's letter with rage and rebellion at
her heart, and found the contents anything but soothing to such a state of
mind. It ran as follows:

"YOU MOST UNNATURAL CHILD:

"We shall all be disgraced if this story gets out. So far, the world knows
nothing, and there is time for you to save yourself. I warn you that your
father's anger is extreme. He says he shall be obliged to put you in a
lunatic asylum if you do not give in at once, and consent to live with
your husband. And there is the law, too, which your husband can invoke.
And think of your five sisters. Will anybody marry them after such a
business with you? Their prospects will be simply ruined by your heartless
selfishness. No girl in my young days would have acted so outrageously. It
is not decent. It is positively immodest. I repeat that your father is the
proper person to judge for you. You know nothing of the world, and even if
you did, you are not old enough to think for yourself. You do not imagine
yourself to be a sort of seer, I hope, better informed by intuition than
your parents are by wisdom and knowledge, for that would be a certain sign
of insanity. Your father thinks your opposition is mere conceit, and
certainly no good can come of it. All right minded women have submitted
and suffered patiently, and have had their reward. Think of the mother of
St. Augustin! Her husband returned to her penitent after years of
depravity. 'Every wise woman buildeth her house; but the foolish pluck it
down,' and that is what you are doing. 'A continual dropping on a rainy
day and a contentious woman are alike.' For Heaven's sake, my child, do
not become a contentious woman. See also Prov. viii. If only you had read
your Bible regularly every day, prayed humbly for a contrite heart, and
_obeyed your parents_, as you have always been taught to do, we
should never have had all this dreadful trouble with you; but you show
yourself wanting in respect in every way and in all right and proper
feeling, and really I don't know what to do. I don't indeed. Oh, do
remember that forgiveness is still offered to you, and repent while it is
called to-day. I assure you that your poor husband is even more ready than
your father and myself to forgive and forget.

"I pray for you continually, Evadne, I do indeed. If you have any natural
feeling at all, write and relieve my anxiety at once.

"Your affectionate mother,

"ELIZABETH FRAYLING."

All this is writ to console those who suffer too poignantly from
book-tragedies and "pictures of life." The artist selects, he studies tone
and composition, whereas in real life tragedies are often accompanied
by "extenuating circumstances." The unloved girl temporarily forgets
her sorrow in the last new novel, or a picnic up the river; the broken-hearted
hero betakes himself to billiards and brandy-and-soda, or toys
with a beefsteak.

Again, many pathetic tales are the outcome of imperfect insight. The
novelist imagines how he would feel in the shoes of his characters,
and cries out with the pain of hypothetic bunions.
This mistake better deserves the name of "the pathetic fallacy" than the
poetic misreading of Nature to which Buskin has annexed it. A good
novel may be made of bad psychology; indeed, this is what most novels
are made of. Yet the gentle reader, misled by the simulation of life, makes
himself miserable over dabs of black ink on white paper. The failure of
two imaginary beings to unite their lives in wedlock brings unhappiness
into myriad homes. How delicious is that story of the German novelist who,
having failed to unite his leading couple at the conclusion of a
newspaper serial, saw no way of appeasing the grief and indignation of
his vast audience save by inserting in the advertisement columns of
a later issue of the journal an announcement of their union under the usual
head of "Marriages"!

VIII

IN DEFENCE OF GAMBLING

Without gambling life would lose its salt in many a humble household.

The humdrum, deadening routine of monotonous daily toil finds
relief by this creation of an outside interest; to have a shilling on the
favourite enlarges and colours existence, gives it a wider and vaguer
horizon.
Imagine the delicious anguish of suspense, the excitement of hearing the
result, the exultation of winning. And the beauty of gambling is that you
cannot lose. Gambling is really a disguised system of purchase. One buys
excitement, a most valuable emotion, for which even the members of the
Anti-Gambling League are prepared to pay heavily in other forms! And
the advantage of gambling over all these other forms is the possibility
that you may not be called upon to pay for your purchase after
all--nay, that _you_ may even be paid instead! You get not only excitement,
but a possible bonus. Is there any earthly transaction that offers such
advantages? Why, 't is always "heads I win, tails you lose." Who speaks of
losing at cards? As well speak of losing at play-going or novel-reading;
what is called loss is simply payment for excitement. You cannot lose at
cards, though you may win; unless it be in games where skill preponderates,
and then loss means penalty for lack of skill. The mere transfer of money
from hand to hand leaves the wealth of the world what it was before.
'T is redistribution, not destruction. It is scarcely relevant to look for
the evils of gambling in its effects--to point to ruined reputations
and ruined homes. Everything is capable of abuse, from love to religion.
The evil of gambling lies in the fact that it is an unworthy form of
excitement--that it is possible to colour life more intellectually. The
Anti-Gambling League, for all its recent prospectus, will not put down
gambling among the poorer classes, except by widening their outlook otherwise,
by creating other interests outside the dull daily groove. For the
well-to-do classes there is less excuse. With all the arts and amenities
of life at their command, it is degrading to use up time and nervous
energy in so brainless a pursuit. The gambling that is inherent in the
constitution of modern civilization is another affair:
that is pursued for the sake of gain; or for a livelihood. The Stock Exchange
is an unhappy consequence of the joint-stock company; credit in business
is an equally inevitable outcome of the ramified mechanism of exchange. We
are all gamblers to-day, insomuch as there is no stable relation between
work and reward, and the failure of a bank in Calcutta may impoverish
a shopkeeper in Camden Town.

Our investments may rise or fall in value through the obscure machinations
of unknown millionaires.

And even the Anti-Gambling League has no word to say against those great
gambling concerns, Life and Fire Assurance Societies, which bet you that
you will not die or be burnt out within a certain number of years,
or those journals which offer you large odds that you won't
be smashed up while reading them. The prudential considerations behind
these forms of gambling seem quite to moralise them: indeed, to
refuse to accept the bet of the Life Assurance Companies is now
considered immoral; a man is expected to amend on his marriage at
the very latest.

There is a form of gambling to which I must myself plead guilty. A
forlorn, shabby creature, pathetically spruced up, arrives from a ten-mile
tramp. He has been a journalist or a poet, but owing to this or that
he is on his beam-ends. He has eaten nothing for two days. His wife is
dying, his children are weeping for food. His voice breaks
beautifully as he tells me I am his last hope. What is to be
done? According to Charles Lamb, the solution is to give, to give always.
For either the man is in need and speaks truth, or he is a liar and
therefore a consummate actor. We pay for stage representations: why deny
our obolus to the histrionics of the beggar? So artistic a make up,
an elocution with such moving notes of pathos, surely deserve our
tribute. Nay (and this Elia forgot to note), the beggar-actor is frequently
the author of his own piece; that consistent argument, those tragical
episodes, those touches of nature, that minute detail, all are his. For
my part, this view does not touch me; I scarcely ever pay for the
play, so I expect even the beggar to perform to me as to one of
"the press." If I give to beggars, it is purely from the gambling
spirit. What are the odds against the man being a scamp? If they are
short, or if the betting is level, I incline to the side of mercy.

The money is of so much more consequence to him than to me, if the
beggar is genuine, that the speculation is well warranted.

I know how wrong it is from the point of view of the Charity
Organization Society, but I am a man, not a bureau of beneficence.

Few of us, I fancy, escape this godly gambling.

How ill Society is ordered! We pay poor rates and support hospitals and
orphan asylums; but is there any thinking man who can banquet with the
assurance that nobody is starving? It spoils the dinner of Dives to meditate
on the longings of Lazarus, and this is the true skeleton at the feast.
The business of philanthropy seems but a mockery, and Government takes
charitable toll from us without pacifying our consciences. There is
something rotten in the state of Denmark.

Cannot the intellect of man devise a means of guaranteeing the deserving
poor against starvation?

Novel-reading is the woman's substitute for gambling--the thing
that takes her outside her narrow circle of interests.

Her ravenous appetite for new novels is amazing; children are not
so gluttonous of cream-tarts.

To supply this demand sequestered spinsters in suburban or rustic
bowens sit spinning the woof and warp of life as it never was on
sea or land.

Bound goes the wheel, to and fro glides the shuttle, and the long,
endless pattern unwinds itself in all its wealth of imaginative
device and all its glory of fanciful colour.

Poor things! What are they to do?
They have not the means to study the life they depict; they cannot mix
in the circles they describe. Fortunately their ignorance is their salvation;
the pretty patterns please the young ladies, the brave notes of
colour set them a-dreaming.

And now in the revolt against the three-volume novel these simple scribblers
are to be swept away; the country parcels will know them no more,
and the three-deckers they built of yore will be dismantled in the
dry dock of the fourpenny box.

Poor creatures! Some will take to typewriting and some to drink, some will
be driven to the workhouse and some to literature.

IX
TRULY RURAL
"ENGINEER AND SURVEYOR'S DEPARTMENT.

"_5 & 6 Wm. IV., cap. 50, sect. 65._

"SIR,
"I am directed to call your attention to the present condition of
trees within your premises, which now overhang the public footpath
adjoining, and thereby cause considerable inconvenience to the
public.

I shall be glad if you will kindly give the matter your best attention,
with a view to lopping or cutting the trees in such a manner as to obviate
the inconvenience at present complained of.

"Yours obediently, "P.

LEONARDO MACREADY, "_Engineer to the Board._"
Amid the cosmopolitan medley of letters on my metropolitan
breakfast-table--the long and formal-looking, the fat and foreign,
and the over-scrawled and the underpaid (the last mainly requests
for autographs)--this delightful home-grown epistle came with
refreshing piquancy.

It brought a breath of summer into the grey chillness of a London winter,
a suggestion of rustling foliage about the chandelier, and the scent of
the hay over the gaslights. "My dear!" I exclaimed to the partner of my
bosom (a tame white rat that likes to perch there), "_Have we any
trees?

_"

My partner gave a little plaintive squeak. That is her idea of conversation.
She screams at everything.

She would scream at the sight of a mouse.

I pushed away my plate. I had sat down hungry as a hunter, and had had two
helpings of everything; but now I could eat no more. Excitement had
taken away my appetite. The prospect of rural discoveries agitated me. I
hastened to the window and looked at the front garden.

To my astonishment and joy there was vegetation in it. There was a
dwarf evergreen bush and a fragment of vine stretching itself
sleepily, and a tall thin tree--they might all have got comfortably into
one bed, but they had been planted in three far apart, and this gave the
garden a desolate Ramsgate-in-winter air of "Beds to let." The tall thin
tree was absolutely naked, without an inch of foliage to cover its wooden
limbs; a mere mass of dry sticks. I looked hard at the tree to see where
it offended, determined to pluck it out. But it returned my gaze with
the stolidity of conscious innocence--it held up its wooden arms in
deprecation. I re-read Mr. P.
Leonardo Macready's letter. "Which now overhang the public footpath"!
Ah!
that was what was the matter with my trees. It was raining, but I am an
Englishman and the law is sacred, and I went outside into the public
highway and looked at the tall thin tree from the new point of
view. Sure enough--very far up--there _was_ a bough overhanging the public
footpath.

I looked up at it and shook my fist menacingly, but it waved its twigs in
response with an irritating amiability. I began to understand what an
annoyance it must be to have a bough up there that you couldn't flick at
with your stick as you passed by, and that even when weighed down
by its summer greenery would bemock you if you made a casual clutch at
its foliage, and laugh at you in its leaves. I went inside and returned
with a step-ladder and an umbrella and a carving-knife, and I stood
on the summit of the ladder and made abortive slashes at space with
my right hand, while the open umbrella in my left made equally
abortive efforts to soar with me skywards.

After nearly stabbing the partner of my bosom I went in, both of us wet like
drowned rats, and as I settled myself again to coffee and correspondence,
I could not help wishing that Chang, the Chinese giant, had remained alive
to triumph over my tantalising trees.
Nor could I help wishing that the activity of the local engineers and
surveyors had been directed by His Gracious Majesty King William IV.
into quite a contrary channel.

William, spare that tree, Touch not a single bough; If you had planted
three, They would protect me now.

If, instead of being requested to amputate a beautiful overhanging arm of
foliage, every citizen of London were served with a notice to plant a
tree in front of his demesne, the face of the great stony city
would be transformed.

It would become a _rus in urbe_. Why not? Everybody knows what the late
Duke of Devonshire made of Eastbourne; and the beauty of Bournemouth
is mainly an affair of trees.

Why should we not walk under the boughs of Oxford Street? What law of
nature or William IV. ordains an eternal divorce between shops and
trees?

Why should one not hear the birds sing in the Strand as well as in the
Inns of Court?

Let us have trees instead of lamp-posts--with electric lights
twinkling from their leaves.

Already there are London streets quite well-wooded. Even in the Whitechapel
Road it is possible to read--
A book of verses underneath a bough;
but I shall not be content till Matthew Arnold's exquisite quatrain
comes literally true of London--
Roses that down the _alleys_ shine afar, And open jasmine-muffled
lattices, And groups under the dreaming garden-trees, And the full
moon and the white evening star.

It might be well if we could transplant to our more prosaic city ways the
beautiful old custom of planting a tree on the birth of a child. It is
true that ladies might object to having their age recorded by the
growth of rings on the trunk; but then they could easily pass the
tree on to an elder sister when they got beyond the average
wedding-ring age.

Besides, people would quickly forget whose birth it marked, and the town
trees would soon become anonymous. I would therefore suggest the formation
of a tree-planting party, pledged not to support any candidate for
Parliament who would not vote for the ruralisation of the Metropolis. To
the Home Rule of Mr.

Gladstone, with his weakness for cutting down trees, must be opposed Home
Ruralisation. What a fine platform cry--"a truly rural London!"--with
the unique advantage of being unpronounceable by demagogues in drink.
The poor would welcome the policy as a boon. They are not by any means so
unpoetical as Gissing would make out.

Only the other day a baby was found buried in a window flower-box; which
is practically the idea of Keats' "Isabella, or the Pot of Basil," an idea
which was itself a graft from the stock of Boccaccio.

If the parish dignitaries became thus associated in our minds with the
Beautiful instead of with bills and blue papers, one might be able to whip
up some enthusiasm for the civic life, and contemplate even
income-tax schedules with a Platonic or Aristotelian rapture.

It is not everybody who can rhapsodise with Mr. Bernard Shaw or
the Fabian Society over sewer rates, and find in the contemplation
of communal gas and water something of the inspiration and ecstasy
that the late Professor Tyndall found in the thought of the
conservation of energy.

In firing us to local patriotism by the example of provincial
cities, the enthusiast does not allow sufficiently for the size of London.
It swallows us all up; there are twenty provincial cities in its maw:
it is not a city, but a province. We cannot rouse ourselves to an
interest in Brixton and Camberwell, in Poplar and Highbury. There
is no glory in being a dweller in so amorphous a city, whose motley
floating population is alone sufficient to stock a town; there can be
no sense of brotherhood in meeting a Londoner abroad, still less
a Middlesex or Surrey man.

Devonians may feast off junkets and cream, in touching fellowship, and the
hearts of Edinburgh men stir with common memories of Princes Street;
but a Cockney, who has far more to be proud of, is overwhelmed
into apathy.

It is only in a compact city that one can develop that sense of special
belonging which George Eliot contends is at the root of so many virtues. I
might just as well be taxed to beautify Dublin as Canonbury, for all the
difference it would make in my grumblings. And if our city is too large
to inspire us, our parish is too small. And so to most of us, I fear,
parochialism is a bore. Theoretically, we know that the parish we live
in is greater than many a provincial town. We know that we ought to take
an interest in its history, and be proud of its great men. But
somehow, despite Mr. Frederic Harrison, our suburb leaves us cold. Our
real life does not centre about our own parish at all. We circle about
the great thoroughfares that radiate from Charing Cross, and the pivot
of our lives is Piccadilly. Born to the Metropolis, we cannot narrow
our minds to a district, nor to parish give up what was meant for
London. We refuse to become provincials. We do not even know that we
boast of a Town Hall, till we are compelled to attend and show cause why
we have not paid the rates, or any part thereof, the same having
been lawfully demanded.
If there are any other great men in the neighbourhood, we do not know their
addresses. They are shy and retiring. It is only the retired who are not
shy. That sort of great man comes forth in his tens. He _has_ been a
butcher, a baker, or a candlestick maker, and he _is_--a bore.
Once he solicited your patronage, to-day he solicits your vote.
Having given up making profits, he now wishes to make by-laws, and finds
a gleam of his old delight in sending out heavy bills to the
neighbourhood. You get a list of him, which policemen announce their
intention of calling for. You are asked to decide among a column of
him, uniformly obscure, but divided invidiously enough into tradesmen
and gentlemen.

Who compiled this list or nominated these gentlemen and tradesmen, you
have not the ghost of a notion. They are sprung upon you as imperiously
and mysteriously as their own demand-notes. You look down the column and
make random crosses by the wayside. You select a sanitary engineer in
preference to an undertaker, forgetting that he is the deadlier of the
two, and you vote for your retired wine-dealer to prevent him going
back into business. But most of the names convey nothing to you, and give
you the sensation of a donkey between two heaps of straw, or of a straw
between two heaps of donkeys. And having thus exercised that high
English privilege, for which you would shed your blood if it were taken
away, you are content for the rest of the year to grumble at the doings
of your representatives. It does not occur to you that public duty calls
upon you to comprehend the parochial mysteries and solicit the parochial
dignities.

They seem too petty for a man of any stature--a sort of small beer
for babes and sucklings.

May it not be that the voice of public duty, when it calls upon you
to be a citizen and a parishioner, calls with too piping a voice?

There is no rousing note, nothing of the resonance of a clarion call.

A suggestion of poverty and the workhouse clings to everything parochial,
something of drab and joyless. Is there no way of infusing colour into
this depressing greyness, a martial _timbre_ into this anaemic note? If we
are to pay the piper let us hear him. Let the tax-collector go his
rounds at the head of a brass band, playing patriotic airs.
"Her body is not so robust as her brain, I should say,
and it is late in the year to be sitting out of doors."

"Tell me, Dr. Galbraith," Mrs. Orton Beg began, detaining him, "you are a
Scotchman, you should have the second sight; tell me the fate of my girlie
out there. I am anxious about her."

"She will marry," he answered in his deliberate way, humouring her, "but
not have many children, and her husband's name should be George."

"Oh, most oracular! a very oracle! a Delphic oracle, only to be
interpreted by the event!"

"Just so!" he answered from the door, and then he was gone.

"Evadne, come in!" Mrs. Orton Beg called. "It is getting damp." Evadne
roused herself and entered at once by the window.

"I have been hearing voices through my dim dreaming consciousness," she
said. "Have you had a visitor?"

"Only the doctor," her aunt replied. "By the way, Evadne," she added,
"what is Major Colquhoun's Christian name?"

"George," Evadne answered, surprised. "Why, auntie?"

"Nothing; I wanted to know."


CHAPTER XVI.


When breakfast was over at Fraylingay next morning, and the young people
had left the table, Mrs. Frayling helped herself to another cup of coffee,
and solemnly opened Evadne's last letter. The coffee was cold, for the
poor lady had been waiting, not daring to take the last cup herself,
because she knew that the moment she did so her husband would want more.
The emptying of the urn was the signal which usually called up his
appetite for another cup. He might refuse several times, and even leave
the table amiably, so long as there was any left; but the knowledge or
suspicion that there was none, set up a sense of injury, unmistakably
expressed in his countenance, and not to be satisfied by having more made
immediately, although he invariably ordered it just to mark his
displeasure. He would get up and ring for it emphatically, and would even
sit with it before him for some time after it came, but would finally go
out without touching it, and be, as poor Mrs. Frayling mentally expressed
it: "Oh, dear! quite upset for the rest of the day."

On this occasion, however, the pleasure of a wholly new grievance left no
space in his fickle mind for the old-worn item of irritation, and he never
even noticed that the coffee was done. "Dear George" sat beside Mrs.
Frayling. She kept him there in order to be able to bestow a stray pat on
his hand, or make him some other sign of that maternal tenderness of which
she considered the poor dear fellow stood so much in need.

Mr. Frayling sat at the end of the table reading a local paper with one
eye, as it were, and watching his wife for her news with the other. A
severely critical expression sat singularly ill upon his broad face, which
was like a baked apple, puffy, and wrinkled, and red, and there was about
him a queerly pursed-up air of settled opposition to everything which did
duty for both the real and spurious object of his attention.

Mrs. Frayling read the letter through to herself, and then she put it down
on the table and raised her handkerchief to her eyes with a heavy sigh.

"Well, what does she say now," Mr. Frayling exclaimed, throwing down the
local paper and giving way to his impatience openly.

"Dear George" was perfectly cool.

"She says," Mrs. Frayling enjoined between two sniffs, "that Major
Colquhoun isn't good enough, and she won't have him."

"Well, I understand that, at all events, better than anything else she has
said," Major Colquhoun observed, almost as if a weight had been removed
from his mind. "And I am quite inclined to come to terms with her, for I
don't care much myself for a young lady who gets into hysterics about
things that other women think nothing of."

"Oh, _don't_ say think _nothing_ of, George," Mrs. Frayling
deprecated. "We lament and deplore, but we forgive and endure."

"It comes to the same thing," said Major Colquhoun.

A big dog which sat beside him, with its head on his knee, thumped his
tail upon the ground here and whined sympathetically; and he laid one hand
caressingly upon his head, while he twirled his big blond moustache with
the other. He was fond of children and animals, and all creatures that
fawned upon him and were not able to argue if they disagreed with him, or
resent it if he kicked them, actually or metaphorically speaking; not that
he was much given to that kind of thing. He was agreeable naturally as all
pleasure-loving people are; only when he did lose his temper that was the
way he showed it. He would cut a woman to the quick with a word, and knock
a man down; but both ebullitions were momentary as a rule. It was really
too much trouble to cherish anger.

And just then he was thinking quite as much about his moustache as about
his wife. It had once been the pride of his life, but had come to be the
cause of some misgivings; for "heavy moustaches" had gone out of fashion
in polite society.

Mr. Frayling followed up the last remark. "This is very hard on you,
Colquhoun, very hard," he declared, pushing his plate away from him; "and
I may say that it is very hard on me too. But it just shows you what would
come of the Higher Education of Women! Why, they'd raise some absurd
standard of excellence, and want to import angels from Eden if we didn't
come up to it."

Major Colquhoun looked depressed.

"Yes," Mrs, Frayling protested, shaking her head. "She says her husband
must be a Christlike man. She says men have agreed to accept Christ as an
example of what a man should be, and asserts that therefore they must feel
in themselves that they _could_ live up to his standard if they
chose."

"There now!" Mr, Frayling exclaimed triumphantly. "That is just what I
said. A Christlike man, indeed! What absurdity will women want next? I
don't know what to advise, Colquhoun. I really don't."

"Can't you _order_ her?" Mrs. Frayling suggested.

"Order her! How can _I_ order her? She belongs to Major Colquhoun
now," he retorted irritably, but with a fine conservative regard for the
rights of property.

"And this is the way she keeps her vow of obedience," Major Colquhoun
muttered.

"Oh, but you see--the poor misguided child considers that she made the vow
under a misapprehension," Mrs. Frayling explained, her maternal instinct
acting on the defensive when her offspring's integrity was attacked, and
making the position clear to her. "Don't you think, dear,"--to her
husband--"that if you asked the bishop, he would talk to her."

"The bishop!" Mr. Frayling ejaculated with infinite scorn. "_I_ know
what women are when they go off like this. Once they set up opinions of
their own, there's _no_ talking to them. Why, haven't they gone to
the stake for their opinions? She wouldn't obey the whole bench of bishops
in her present frame of mind; and, if they condescended to talk to her,
they would only confirm her belief in her own powers. She would glory to
find herself opposing what she calls her opinions to theirs."

"Oh, the child is mad!" Mrs. Frayling wailed. "I've said it all along.
She's quite mad."

"Is there any insanity in the family?" Major Colquhoun asked, looking up
suspiciously.

"None, none whatever," Mr. Frayling hastened to assure him. "There has
never been a case. In fact, the women on both sides have always been
celebrated for good sense and exceptional abilities--_for_ women, of
course; and several of the men have distinguished themselves, as you
know."

"That does not alter _my_ opinion in the least!" Mrs Frayling put in.
"Evadne must be mad."

"She's worse, I think," Major Colquhoun exclaimed in a tone of deep
disgust. "She's worse than mad. She's clever. You can do something with a
mad woman; you can lock her up; but a clever woman's the devil. And I'd
never have thought it of her," he added regretfully. "Such a nice quiet
little thing as she seemed, with hardly a word to say for herself. You
wouldn't have imagined that she knew what 'views' are, let alone having
any of her own. But that is just the way with women. There's no being up
to them."

"That is true," said Mr. Frayling.

"Well, I don't know where she got them," Mrs. Frayling protested, "for
I am sure _I_ haven't any. But she seems to know so much about--
_everything_!" she declared, glancing at, the letter. "At _her_ age I
knew _nothing_!"

"I can vouch for that!" her husband exclaimed. He was one of those men who
oppose the education of women might and main, and then jeer at them for
knowing nothing. He was very particular about the human race when it was
likely to suffer by an injurious indulgence on the part of women, but when
it was a question of extra port wine for himself, he never considered the
tortures of gout he might be entailing upon his own hapless descendants.
However, there was an excuse for him on this occasion, for it is not every
day that an irritated man has an opportunity of railing at his wife's
incapacity and the inconvenient intelligence of his daughter both in one
breath. "But how has Evadne obtained all this mischievous information? I
cannot think how she could have obtained it!" he ejaculated, knitting his
brows at his wife in a suspicious way, as he always did when this
importunate thought recurred to him. In such ordinary everyday matters as
the management of his estate, and his other duties as a county gentleman,
and also in solid comprehension of the political situation of the period,
he was by no means wanting; but his mind simply circled round and round
this business of Evadne's like a helpless swimmer in a whirlpool, able to
keep afloat, but with nothing to take hold of. The risk of sending the
mind of an elderly gentleman of settled prejudices spinning "down the
ringing grooves of change" at such a rate is considerable.

During the day he wandered up to the rooms which had been Evadne's. They
were kept very much as she was accustomed to have them, but there was that
something of bareness about them, and a kind of spick-and-spanness
conveying a sense of emptiness and desertion which strikes cold to the
heart when it comes of the absence of someone dear. And Mr. Frayling felt
the discomfort of it. The afternoon sunlight slanted across the little
sitting room, falling on the backs of a row of well-worn books, and
showing the scars of use and abuse on them. Without deliberate intention,
Mr. Frayling followed the ray, and read the bald titles by its
uncompromising clearness--histology, pathology, anatomy, physiology,
prophylactics, therapeutics, botany, natural history, ancient and
outspoken history, not to mention the modern writers and the various
philosophies. Mr. Frayling took out a work on sociology, opened it, read a
few passages which Evadne had marked, and solemnly ejaculated, "Good
Heavens!" several times. He could not have been more horrified had the
books been "Mademoiselle de Maupin," "Nana," "La Terre," "Madame Bovary,"
and "Sapho"; yet, had women been taught to read the former and reflect
upon them, our sacred humanity might have been saved sooner from the depth
of degradation depicted in the latter.

The discovery of these books was an adding of alkali to the acid of Mr.
Frayling's disposition at the moment, and he went down to look for his
wife while he was still effervescing. How did Evadne get them? he wanted
to know. Mrs. Frayling could not conceive. She had forgotten all about
Evadne's discovery of the box of books in the attic, and the sort of
general consent she had given when Evadne worried her for permission to
read them.

"She must be a most deceitful girl. I shall go and talk to her myself,"
Mr. Frayling concluded.

And doubtless, if only he had had a pair of wings to spread, he would
presently have appeared sailing over the cathedral into the Close at
Morningquest, a portly bird, in a frock coat, tall hat, and a very bad
temper.

But, poor gentleman! he really was an object for compassion. All his ideas
of propriety and the natural social order of the universe were being
outraged, and by his favourite daughter too, the one whom everybody
thought so like him. And in truth, she was like him, especially in the
matter of sticking to her own opinion; just the very thing he had no
patience with, for he detested obstinate people. He said so himself. He
did not go, however. Having preparations to make and a train to wait for,
gave him time to reflect, and, perceiving that the interview must
inevitably be of a most disagreeable nature, he decided to send his wife
next day to reason with her daughter.

Mrs. Frayling came upon Evadne unawares, and the shock it gave the girl to
see her mother all miserably agitated and worn with worry, was a more
powerful point in favour of the success of the latter's mission than any
argument would have been.

The poor lady was handsomely dressed, and of a large presence calculated
to inspire awe in inferiors unaccustomed to it. She was a well-preserved
woman, with even teeth, thick brown hair, scarcely tinged with gray, and a
beautiful soft transparent pink and white complexion, and Evadne had
always seen her in a state of placid content, never really interrupted
except by such surface squalls as were caused by having to scold the
children, or the shedding of a few sunshiny tears; and had thought her
lovely. But when she entered now, and had given her daughter the corner of
her cheek to kiss for form's sake, she sat down with quivering lips and
watery eyes all red with crying, and a broken-up aspect generally which
cut the girl to the quick.

"Oh, mother!" Evadne cried, kneeling down on the floor beside her, and
putting her arms about her. "It grieves me deeply to see you so
distressed."

But Mrs. Frayling held herself stiffly, refusing to be embraced, and
presenting a surface for the operation as unyielding as the figurehead of
a ship.

"If you are sincere," she said severely, "you will give up this nonsense
at once."

Evadne's arms dropped, and she rose to her feet, and stood, with fingers
interlaced in front of her, looking down at her mother for a moment, and
then up at the cathedral. Her talent for silence came in naturally here.

"You don't say anything, because you know there is nothing to be said for
you," Mrs. Frayling began. "You've broken my heart, Evadne, indeed you
have. And after everything had gone off so well too. What a tragedy! How
could you forget? And on the very day itself! Your wedding day, just
think! Why, we keep ours every year. And all your beautiful presents, and
such a trousseau! I am sure no girl was ever more kindly considered by
father, mother, friends--everybody!"

She was obliged to stop short for a moment. Ideas, by which she was not
much troubled as a rule, had suddenly crowded in so thick upon her when
she began to speak, that she became bewildered, and in an honest attempt
to make the most of them all, only succeeded in laying hold of an end of
each, to the great let and hindrance of all coherency as she herself felt
when she pulled up.

"Yes, you may well look up at the cathedral," she began again,
unreasonably provoked by Evadne's attitude. "But what good does it do you?
I should have supposed that the hallowed associations of this place would
have restored you to a better frame of mind."

"I do feel the force of association strongly," Evadne answered; "and that
is why I shrink from Major Colquhoun. People have their associations as
well as places, and those that cling about him are anything but hallowed."

Mrs, Frayling assumed an aspect of the deepest depression: "I never heard
a girl talk so in my life," she said. "It is positively indelicate. It
really is. But _we_ have done all we could. Now, honestly, have you
anything to complain of?"

"Nothing, mother, nothing," Evadne exclaimed. "Oh, I wish I could make you
understand!"

"Understand! What is there to understand? It is easy enough to understand
that you have behaved outrageously. And written letters you ought to be
ashamed of. Quoting Scripture too, for your own purposes. I cannot think
that you are in your right mind, Evadne, I really cannot. No girl ever
acted so before. If only you would read your Bible properly, and say your
prayers, you would see for yourself and repent. Besides, what is to become
of you? We can't have you at home again, you know. How we are any of us to
appear in the neighbourhood if the story gets about--and of course it must
get about if you persist--I cannot think. And everybody said, too, how
sweet you looked on your wedding day, Evadne; but I said, when those
children changed clothes, it was unnatural, and would bring bad luck; and
there was a terrible gale blowing too, and it rained. Everything went so
well up to the very day itself; but, since then, for no reason at all but
your own wicked obstinacy, all has gone wrong. You ought to have been
coming back from your honeymoon soon now, and here you are in hiding--yes,
literally _in hiding like a criminal_, ashamed to be seen. It mast be
a terrible trial for my poor sister, Olive, and a great imposition on her
good nature, having you here. You consider no one. And I might have been a
grandmother in time too, although I don't so much mind about that, for I
don't think it is any blessing to a military man to have a family. They
have to move about so much. But, however, all that it seems is over. And
your poor sisters--five of them--are curious to know what George is doing
all this time at Fraylingay, and asking questions. You cannot have
imagined _my_ difficulties, or you never would have been so selfish
and unnatural. I had to box Barbara's ears the other day, I had indeed,
and who will marry them now, I should like to know? If only you had turned
Roman Catholic and gone into a convent, or died, or never been born--oh,
dear! oh, dear!"

Evadne looked down at her mother again. She was very white, but she did
not utter a word.

"Why don't you speak?" Mrs. Frayling exclaimed. "Why do you stand there
like a stone or statue, deaf to all my arguments?"

Evadne sighed: "Mother, I will do anything you suggest except the one
thing. I will not live with Major Colquhoun as his wife," she said.

"I thought so!" Mrs. Frayling exclaimed. "You will do everything but what
you ought to do. It is just what your father says. Once you over-educate a
girl, you can do nothing with her, she gives herself such airs; and you
have managed to over-educate yourself somehow, although _how_ remains
a mystery. But one thing I am determined upon. Your poor sisters shall
never have a book I don't know off by heart myself. I shall lock them all
up. Not that it is much use, for no one will marry them now. No man will
ever come to the house again to be robbed of his character, as Major
Colquhoun has been by you. I am sure no one ever knew anything bad about
him--at least _I_ never did, whatever your father may have
done--until you went and ferreted all those dreadful stories out. You are
shameless, Evadne, you really are. And what good have you done by it all,
I should like to know? When you might have done so much, too."

Mrs. Frayling paused here, and Evadne looked up at the cathedral again,
feeling for her pitifully. This new view of her mother was another
terrible disillusion, and the more the poor lady exposed herself, the
greater Evadne felt was the claim she had upon her filial tenderness.

"Why don't you say something?" Mrs. Frayling recommenced.

"Mother, what _can_ I say?"

"If you knew what a time I have had with your father and your husband, you
would pity me. I can assure you George has been so sullen there was no
doing anything with him, and the trouble I have had, and the excuses I
have made for you, I am quite worn out. He said if you were that kind of
girl yon might go, and I've had to go down on my knees to him almost to
make him forgive you. And now I will go down on my knees to you"--she
exclaimed, acting on a veritable inspiration, and suiting the action to
the word--"to beg you for the sake of your sisters, and for the love of
God, not to disgrace us all!"

"Oh, mother--no! Don't do that. Get up--do get up! This is too dreadful!"
Evadne cried, almost hysterically.

"Here I shall kneel until you give in," Mrs. Frayling sobbed, clasping her
hands in the attitude of prayer to her daughter, and conscious of the
strength of her position.

Evadne tried in vain to raise her. Her bonnet had slipped to one side, her
dress had been caught up by the heels of her boots, and the soles were
showing behind; her mantle was disarranged; she was a figure for a farce;
but Evadne saw only her own mother, shaken with sobs, on her knees before
her.

"Mother--mother," she cried, sinking into a chair, and covering her face
with her hands to hide the dreadful spectacle: "Tell me what I am to do!
Suggest something!"

"If you would even consent," Mrs. Frayling began, gathering herself up
slowly, and standing over her daughter; "if you would even consent to live
in the same house with him until you get used to him and forget all this
nonsense, I am sure he would agree. For he is _dreadfully_ afraid of
scandal, Evadne. I never knew a man more so. In fact, he shows nothing but
right and proper feeling, and you will love him as much as ever again when
you know him better, and get over all these exaggerated ideas. _Do_
consent to this, dear child, for my sake. You shall have your own way in
everything else. And I will arrange it all for you, and get his written
promise to allow you to live in his house quite independently, like
brother and sister, as long as you like, and there will be no awkwardness
for you whatever. Do, my child, do consent to this," and the poor old lady
knelt once more, and put her arms about her daughter, and wept aloud.

Evadne broke down. The sight of the dear face so distorted, the poor lips
quivering, the kind eyes all swollen and blurred with tears was too much
for her, and she flung her arms round her mother's neck and cried: "I
consent, mother, for your sake--to keep up appearances; but only that,
mother, you promise me. You will arrange all that?"

"I promise you, my dear, I promise," Mrs. Frayling rejoined, rising with
alacrity, her countenance clearing on the instant, her heart swelling with
the joy and pride of a great victory. She knew she had done what the whole
bench of bishops could not have done--nor that most remarkable man, her
husband, either, for the matter of that, and she enjoyed her triumph.

As she had anticipated, Major Colquhoun made no difficulty about the
arrangement.

"I should not care a rap for an unwilling wife," he said. "Let her go
_her_ way, and I'll go mine. All I want now is to keep up
appearances. It would be a deuced nasty thing for me if the story got
about. Fellows would think there was more in it than there is."

"But she will come round," said Mrs. Frayling. "If only you are nice to
her, and I am sure you will be, she is sure to come round."

"Oh, of course she will," Mr. Frayling decided.

And Major Colquhoun smiled complacently. He often asserted that there was
no knowing women; but he took credit to himself for a superior knowledge
of the sex all the same.


CHAPTER XVII.


Before writing the promise which Evadne required, Major Colquhoun begged
to be allowed to have an interview with her, and to this also she
consented at her mother's earnest solicitation, although the idea of it
went very much against the grain. She perceived, however, that the first
meeting must be awkward in any case, and she was one of those energetic
people who, when there is a disagreeable thing to be done, do it, and get
it over at once. So she strengthened her mind by adding a touch of
severity to her costume, and sat herself down in the drawing room with a
book on her lap when the morning came, well nerved for the interview. Her
heart began to beat unpleasantly when he rang, and she heard him in the
hall, doubtless inquiring for her. At the sound of his voice she arose
from her seat involuntarily, and stood, literally awaiting in fear and
trembling the dreadful moment of meeting.

"What a horrible sensation!" she ejaculated mentally.

"Colonel Colquhoun," the servant announced.

He entered with an air of displeasure he could not conceal, and bowed to
her from a distance stiffly; but, although she looked hard at him, she
could not see him, so great was her trepidation. It was she, however, who
was the first to speak.

"I--I'm nervous," she gasped, clasping her hands and holding them out to
him piteously.

Colonel Colquhoun relaxed. It flattered his vanity to perceive that this
curiously well-informed and exceedingly strong-minded young lady became as
weakly emotional as any ordinary school girl the moment she found herself
face to face with him. "There is nothing to be afraid of," he blandly
assured her.

"Will you--sit down," Evadne managed to mumble, dropping into her own
chair again from sheer inability to stand any longer.

Colonel Colquhoun took a seat at an exaggerated distance from her. His
idea was to impress her with a sense of his extreme delicacy, but the act
had a contrary effect upon her. His manners had been perfect so far as she
had hitherto seen them, but thus to emphasize an already sufficiently
awkward position was not good taste, and she registered the fact against
him.

After they were seated, there was a painful pause. Evadne knit her brows
and cast about in her mind for something to say. Suddenly the fact that
the maid had announced him as "Colonel" Colquhoun recurred to her.

"Have you been promoted?" she asked very naturally.

"Yes," he answered.

"I congratulate you," she faltered.

Again he bowed stiffly.

But Evadne was recovering herself. She could look at him now, and it
surprised her to find that he was not in appearance the monster she had
been picturing him--no more a monster, indeed, than he had seemed before
she knew of his past. Until now, however, except for that one glimpse in
the carriage, she had always seen him through such a haze of feeling as to
make the seeing practically null and void, so far as any perception of his
true character might be gathered from his appearance, and useless for
anything really but ordinary purposes of identification. Now, however,
that the misty veil of passion was withdrawn from her eyes, the man whom
she had thought noble she saw to be merely big; the face which had seemed
to beam with intellect certainly remained fine-featured still, but it was
like the work of a talented artist when it lacks the perfectly
perceptible, indefinable finishing touch of genius that would have raised
it above criticism, and drawn you back to it again, but, wanting which,
after the first glance of admiration, interest fails, and you pass on only
convinced of a certain cleverness, a thing that soon satiates without
satisfying. Evadne had seen soul in her lover's eyes, but now they struck
her as hard, shallow, glittering, and obtrusively blue; and she noticed
that his forehead, although high, shelved back abruptly to the crown of
his head, which dipped down again sheer to the back of his neck, a very
precipice without a single boss upon which to rest a hope of some saving
grace in the way of eminent social qualities. "Thank Heaven, I see you as
you are in time!" thought Evadne.

Colonel Colquhoun was the next to speak.

"I shall be able to give you rather a better position now," he said.

"Yes," she replied, but she did not at all appreciate the advantage,
because she had never known what it was to be in an inferior position.

"May I speak to you with reference to our future relations?" he continued.

She bowed a kind of cold assent, then looked at him expectantly, her eyes
opening wide, and her heart thumping horribly in the very natural
perturbation which again seized upon her as they approached the subject;
yet, in spite of her quite perceptible agitation, there was both dignity
and determination in her attitude, and Colonel Colquhoun, meeting the
unflinching glance direct, became suddenly aware of the fact that the
timid little love-sick girl with half-shut, sleepy eyes he had had such a
fancy for, and this young lady, modestly shrinking in every inch of her
sensitive frame, but undaunted in spirit, nevertheless, were two very
different people. There had been misapprehension of character on both
sides, it seemed, but he liked pluck, and, by Jove! the girl was handsomer
than he had imagined. Views or no views, he would lay siege to her senses
in earnest; there would be some satisfaction in such a conquest.

"Is there no hope for me, Evadne?" he pleaded.

"None--none," she burst out impetuously, becoming desperate in her
embarrassment, "But I cannot discuss the subject. I beg you will let it
drop."

Her one idea was to get rid of this big blond man, who gazed at her with
an expression in his eyes from which, now that her own passion was dead,
she shrunk in revolt.

Again Colonel Colquhoun bowed stiffly. "As you please," he said. "My only
wish is to please you." He paused for a reply, but as Evadne had nothing
more to say, he was obliged to recommence: "The regiment," he said, "is
going to Malta at once, and I must go with it. And what I would venture to
suggest is, that you should follow when you feel inclined, by P. and O.
Fellows will understand that I don't care to have you come out on a
troopship. And I should like to get your rooms fitted up for you, too,
before you arrive. I am anxious to do all in my power to meet your wishes.
I will make every arrangement with that end in view; and if you can
suggest anything yourself that does not occur to me I shall be glad. You
had better bring an English maid out with you, or a German. Frenchwomen
are flighty." He got up as he said this, and added: "You'll like Malta, I
think. It is a bright little place, and very jolly in the season."

Evadne rose too. "Thank you," she said. "You are showing me more
consideration than I have any right to expect, and I am sure to be
satisfied with any arrangement you may think it right to make."

"I will telegraph to you when my arrangements for your reception are
complete," he concluded. "And I think that is all."

"I can think of nothing else," she answered.

"Good-bye, then," he said.

"Good-bye," she rejoined, "and I wish you a pleasant voyage and all
possible success with your regiment."

"Thank you," he answered, putting his heels together, and making her a
profound bow as he spoke.

So they parted, and he went his way through the old Cathedral Close with
that set expression of countenance which he had worn when he first became
aware of her flight. But, curiously enough, although he had no atom of
lover-like feeling left for her, and the amount of thought she had
displayed in her letters had shocked his most cherished prejudices on the
subject of her sex, she had gained in his estimation. He liked her pluck.
He felt she could be nothing but a credit to him.

She remained for a few seconds as he had left her, listening to his
footsteps in the hall and the shutting of the door; and then from where
she stood she saw him pass, and watched him out of sight--a fine figure of
a man, certainly; and she sighed. She had been touched by his
consideration, and thought it a pity that such a kindly disposition should
be unsupported by the solid qualities which alone could command her
lasting respect and affection.

She walked to the window, and stood there drumming idly on the glass,
thinking over the conclusion they had come to, for some time after Colonel
Colquhoun had disappeared. She felt it to be a lame one, and she was far
from satisfied. But what, under the circumstances, would have been a
better arrangement? The persistent question contained in itself its own
answer. Only the prospect was blank--blank. The excitement of the contest
was over now; the reaction had set in. She ventured to look forward; and,
seeing for the first time what was before her, the long, dark, dreary
level of a hopelessly uncongenial existence, reaching from here to
eternity, as it seemed from her present point of view, her over-wrought
nerves gave way; and, when Mrs. Orton Beg came to her a moment later, she
threw herself into her arms and sobbed hysterically: "Oh, auntie I have
suffered horribly! I wish I were dead!"


CHAPTER XVIII.


The first news that Evadne received on arriving in Malta was contained in
a letter from her mother. It announced that her father had determined to
cut her off from all communication with her family until she came to her
senses.

She had remained quiety with Mrs. Orton Beg until it was time to leave
England. She did not want to go to Fraylingay. She shrank from occupying
her old rooms in her new state of mind, and she would not have thought of
proposing such a thing herself; but she did half expect to be asked. This
not liking to return home, not recognizing it as home any longer, or
herself as having any right to go there uninvited, marked the change in
her position, and made her realize it with a pang. Her mother came and
went, but she brought no message from her father nor ever mentioned him.
Something in ourselves warns us at once of any change of feeling in a
friend, and Evadne asked no questions, and sent no messages either. But
this attitude did not satisfy her father at all. He thought it her duty
clearly to throw herself at his feet and beg for mercy and forgiveness;
and he waited for her to make some sign of contrition until his patience
could hold out no longer, and then he asked his wife: "Has
Evadne--eh--what is her attitude at present?"

"She is perfectly cheerful and happy," Mrs. Frayling replied.

"She expresses no remorse for her most unjustifiable conduct?"

"She thinks she only did what is right," Mrs. Frayling reminded him.

"Then she is quite indifferent to my opinion?" he began, swelling visibly
and getting red in the face. "Has she asked what I think? Does she ever
mention me?"

"No, never," Mrs. Frayling declared apprehensively.

"A most unnatural child," he exclaimed in his pompous way; "a most
unnatural child."

It was after this that he became obstinately determined to cut Evadne off
from all communication with her friends until she should become reconciled
to Colonel Colquhoun as a husband. Mr. Frayling was not an astute man. He
was simply incapable of sitting down and working out a deliberate scheme
of punishment which should have the effect of bringing Evadne's unruly
spirit into what he considered proper subjection. In this matter he acted,
not upon any system which he could have reduced to writing, but rather as
the lower animals do when they build nests, or burrow in the ground, or
repeat, generation after generation, other arrangements of a like nature
with a precision which the cumulative practice of the race makes perfect
in each individual. He possessed a certain faculty, transmitted from
father to son, that gives the stupidest man a power in his dealings with
women which the brightest intelligence would not acquire without it; and
he used to obtain his end with the decision of instinct, which is always
neater and more effectual than reason and artifice in such matters. He
denied hotly, for instance, that Evadne had any natural affection, and yet
it was upon that woman's weakness of hers that he set to work at once,
proving himself to be possessed of a perfect, if unconscious, knowledge of
her most vulnerable point; and he displayed much ingenuity in his manner
of making it a means of torture. He let no hint of the cruel edict be
breathed before she went abroad; she might have altered her arrangements
had she known of it before, and remained with Mrs. Orton Beg--and there
was something of foresight too, in timing her mother's tear-stained letter
of farewell, good advice, pious exhortation, and plaintive reproach to
meet her on her arrival, to greet her on the threshold of her new life,
and make her realize the terrible gulf which she was setting between
herself and those who were dearest to her, by her obstinacy.

The object was to make her suffer, and she did suffer; but her father's
cruelty did not alter the facts of the case, or appeal to her reason as an
argument worthy to influence her decision.

Mrs. Orton Beg ventured to express her opinion to Mr. Frayling on the
subject seriously. She often said more to him in her quiet way than most
people would have dared to.

"I think you are making a mistake," she said.

"What!" he exclaimed, ready to bluster; "Would you have me countenance
such conduct? Why, it is perfectly revolutionary. If other women follow
her example, not one man in ten will be able to get a wife when he wants
to marry."

"It is very terrible," she answered in her even way, "to hear that so
large a majority will be condemned to celibacy; but I have no doubt you
have good grounds for making the assertion. That is not the point,
however. What I was thinking of was the risk you run of bringing more
serious trouble on yourself by cutting Evadne adrift from every influence
of her happy childhood, and casting her lot among strangers, and into a
world of intrigue alone."

"She will come to her senses when she finds herself so situated, perhaps,"
he retorted testily; "and if she does not, it will just show that she is
incorrigible."

Evadne answered this last letter of her mother's with dignity.

"Of course I regret my father's decision [she wrote], and I consider it
neither right nor wise. But I shall take the liberty of writing to you
regularly every mail nevertheless. I know my letters will be a pleasure to
you although you cannot answer them. But where is the reason and right,
mother, in this decision of my father's? We both know, you and I, that it
is merely the outcome of irritation caused by a difference of opinion, and
no more binding in reason upon you than upon me."

When Mrs. Frayling received this letter, she wrote a hurried note to
Evadne, saying that she did think her husband unreasonable, and also that
he had no right to separate her from any of her children, and that
therefore she should write to Evadne as often as she liked, but without
letting him know it. She thought his injustice quite justified such
tactics; but Evadne answered, "No!"

"There has been too much of that kind of cowardice among women already
[she wrote]. Whatever we do we should do openly and fearlessly. We are not
the property of our husbands; they do not buy us. We are perfectly free
agents to write to whomsoever we please, and so long as we order our lives
in all honour and decency, they have no more right to interfere with us
than we with them. Tell him once for all that you see no reason in his
request, and write openly. What can he do? Storm, I suppose. But storming
is no proof of his right to interfere between you and me. Once on a time
the ignorant were taught to believe that the Lord spoke in the thunder,
and they could be influenced through their terror and respect to do
anything while an opportune storm was raging; and when women were weak and
ignorant men used their wrath in much the same way to convince them of
error. To us, educated as we are, however, an outburst of rage is about as
effectual an argument as a clap of thunder would be. Both are startling I
grant, but what do they prove? I have seen my father in a rage. His face
swells and gets very red, he prances up and down the room, he shouts at
the top of his voice, and presents altogether a very disagreeable
spectacle which one never quite forgets. But he cannot go like that
forever, mother. So tell him gently you have been thinking about his
proposition, and are sorry that you find you must differ from him, but you
consider that it is clearly your duty to correspond with me. Then sit
still, and say nothing, and let him storm till he is tired; and when he
goes out and bangs the door, finish your letter, and put it in a
conspicuous position on the hall table to be posted. He will scarcely tear
it up, but if he does, write another, send it to the post yourself, and
tell him you have done so, and shall continue to do so. Be open before
everything, and stand upon your dignity. Things have come to a pretty
pass, indeed, when an honourable woman only dares to write to her own
daughter surreptitiously, as if she were doing something she should be
ashamed of."

Poor Mrs. Frayling was not equal to such opposition. She would rather have
faced a thunderstorm than her husband in his wrath, so she concealed
Evadne's letter from him, and wrote to her again surreptitiously in order
to reproach her for seeming to insinuate that she, her mother, would stoop
to do anything underhand. Evadne sighed when she received this letter, and
thought of letting the matter drop. Why should she dislike to see her
father in the position unreasonable husbands and fathers usually occupy,
that of being ostensibly obeyed while in reality they are carefully kept
in the dark as to what is going on about them? And why should she object
to allow her mother to act as so many other worthy but weak women daily do
in self-defence and for the love of peace and quietness? There seemed to
be no great good to be gained by persisting, and she might perhaps have
ended by acquiescing under protest if her mother had not added by way of
postscript: "I doubt very much if I shall be allowed to receive your
letters. Your father will probably send any he may capture straight back
to you; and, at any rate, he will insist upon seeing them, so do not, my
dear child, allude to having heard from me. I earnestly entreat you to
remember this."

But the request only made Evadne's blood boil again. She did not belong to
the old corrupt state of things herself, and she would not submit to
anything savouring of deceit. If her mother were too weak to assert her
own independence she felt herself forced to do it for her, so she wrote to
her father sharply:

"My mother tells me that you intend to stop all communication between her
and myself. I consider that you have no right to do anything of the kind,
and unless I hear from her regularly in answer to my letters, I shall be
reluctantly compelled to send a detailed statement of my case to every
paper in the kingdom in order to find out from my fellow countrywomen what
their opinion of your action in the matter is, and also what they would
advise us to do. You know my mother's affection for you. You have never
had any reason to complain of want of devotion on her part, and when you
make your disagreement with me a whip to scourge her with, you are guilty
of an unjustifiable act of oppression."

This letter arrived at Fraylingay late one afternoon, and was handed to
Mr. Frayling on his return from a pleasant country ride. He read it
standing in the hall, and lost his equanimity at once.

"Where is Mrs. Frayling?" he asked a servant who happened to be passing,
speaking in a way which caused the man to remark afterward that "Mrs.
Frayling was going to catch it about somethin'; and 'e seemed to think I'd
made away with 'er."

Mrs. Frayling was in the drawing room, writing one of her pleasant chatty
letters to a friend in India, with a cheerful expression on her comely
countenance, and all recollections of her domestic difficulties banished
for the moment.

When Mr. Frayling entered in his riding dress, with his whip in his hand
and his hat on his head (he was one of those men who are most punctilious
with strange ladies, but do not feel it necessary to behave like gentlemen
in the presence of their own wives, making it appear as if the latter had
lost cast and forfeited all claim to their respect by marrying them) Mrs.
Frayling looked round from her writing and smiled.

"Have you had a nice ride, dear?" she said.

"Read that!" he exclaimed, slapping Evadne's letter with his whip, and
then throwing it down on the table before her rudely: "Read that, and tell
me what you think of your daughter now!" Mrs. Frayling's fair face clouded
on the instant, and her affectionate heart, which had been so happily
expanded the moment before by the kind thoughts about her absent friend
that came crowding as she wrote to her, contracted now with a painful
spasm of nervous apprehension.

She read the letter through, and then put it down on the table beside her
without a word. She did not look at her husband, but at some miniatures
which hung on the wall before her. They were portraits of her own people,
father, mother, grandmother, a great aunt and uncle, and other near
relations, together with a brother and sister much older than herself, and
both dead, and forgotten as a rule: but at that moment all that she had
ever known of them, details of merry games together, and childish
naughtinesses which got them into trouble at the time but made them appear
to have been only amusingly mischievous now, recurred to her in one great
flash of memory, which showed her also some lost illusions of her early
girlhood about a husband's love and tenderness, his constant friendship,
the careful, patient teaching of the more powerful mind which was to
strengthen her mind and enlarge it too, and the constant companionship
which would banish for ever the indefinite gnawing sense of loneliness
from which all healthy, young, unmated creatures suffer. She had actually
expected at one time to be more to her husband than the mere docile female
of his own kind which was all he wanted his wife to be. She had had
aspirations which had caused her to yearn for help to develop something
beyond the animal side of her, proving the possession in embryo of
faculties other than those which had survived Mr. Frayling's rule; but her
nature was plastic; one of those which requires the strong and delicate
hand of a master to mould it into distinct and lovely form. Motherhood, as
it had appeared to her in the delicate dreams of those young days, had
promised to be a beautiful and blessed privilege, but then the children of
her happy imaginings had been less her own than those of the shadowy
perfection who was to have been her husband. She had little sense of
humour, but yet she could have smiled when, in this moment of absolute
insight, she saw the ideal compared with the real husband, this great fat
country gentleman. The folly of having expected even motherhood with such
a father for her children to be anything but unsatisfactory and
disappointing at the best, dawned upon her for an instant with
disheartening effect. But, fortunately, the outlook was so hopeless there
seemed nothing more to sigh for, and so she sat for once, looking up at
the miniatures without washing out with tears the little mental strength
she had left.

Mr. Frayling waited impatiently for her to make some remark when she had
read Evadne's letter. Almost anything she could have said must have given
him some further food for provocation, and there is nothing more
gratifying to an angry man than fresh fuel for his wrath. However, silence
sometimes fans the flame as effectually as words, and it did so on this
occasion, for, having waited till he could contain himself no longer, he
burst out so suddenly that Mrs. Frayling raised her large soft white hand
to the heavy braids which it was then the fashion to pile high on the head
and have hanging down in two rows to the nape of the neck behind, as if
she expected them to be disarranged by the concussion.

"May I ask if you approve of that letter?" he demanded.

But she only set her lips.

Mr. Frayling took a turn about the room with his hands behind his back,
holding his riding whip upright, and flicking himself between the
shoulders with it as he went.

"Let her write to the papers!" he exclaimed, addressing the pictures on
the walls as if he were sure of their sympathy. "Let her write to the
papers. I don't care what she does. I cast her off forever. This comes of
the higher education of women; a promising specimen! Woman's rights,
indeed! Woman's shamelessness and want of common decency once she is let
loose from proper control. She'll make the matter public, will she? A girl
of nineteen! and take the opinion of her fellow countrywomen on the
subject, egad! because I won't let her mother write to her: and my not
doing so is an unjustifiable act of oppression, is it? What do you
consider it yourself?" he demanded of his wife, striding up to her, and
standing over her in a way which, with a flourish of the whip, was
unpleasantly suggestive of an impulse to visit her daughter's offence upon
her shoulders actually as well as figuratively.

Mrs. Lady Macbeth said that these taps denoted its readiness to hold communion
with the grosser earth, and constituted its sole vocabulary. As in the
game of Animal, Vegetable, and Mineral, its information was to be
extracted by a series of queries admitting of "yes" or "no" in answer.
One tap denoted "no," three "yes," and two "doubtful."

It could also give numerical replies. The table or the sprite, having indicated
its acquiescence in this code, proceeded to give a most satisfactory
account of itself.

It told the Author his age, the time of day, the date of the month, carefully
allowing for its being past midnight (which none of the human trio had
thought of); it was excellently posted on his private concerns, knowing
the date of his projected visit to America, and the name of his past work
and his future wife. Its orthography was impeccable, though its method
was somewhat todious, for the Author had to run through the alphabet to
provoke the sprite into tapping at any particular letter. But one soon
grew reconciled to its cumbrous methods, as though holding converse
with a foreigner; and its remarks made up in emphasis what they
lacked in brevity, and were given with exemplary promptitude.

Interrogated as to its own personality, it declared it was an unborn spirit,
destined to be born in ten years. "Do you know what makes you be born?"
inquired the Author. "Yes," it replied. "Will you tell us?" "Yes." "Tell
us, then." "F-O-R-C-E." "Is it God's force?" "No." "Is He not omnipotent,
then?" "No."

"What is the true religion?" "Buddhism." "Do you mean Madame Blavatsky
was right?" "Yes." "Is there a heaven?" "Yes." "A Hell?" "No." To hear a
small still voice rapping, rapping in the silence of the small hours,
rapping out the secrets of the universe, was weird enough. It was as though
Milton's words were indeed inspired, and--
Millions of spiritual creatures walk the earth Unseen.

"What!" thought the Author, "shall the Great Secret which has puzzled so
many heads--heads in caps and heads in turbans, heads in bonnets and
heads in berettas, as Heine hath it--shall the explanation of the
Universe, which baffled Aristotle, and puzzled Hegel, and still
more his readers, be the property of this wretched little unborn
babe, this infant rapping in the night, and with no language but a
rap?

Was, then, Wordsworth right, and is our birth 'but a sleep and a forgetting'?"
And, mingled with these questionings, a sort of compassion for the poor
orphan spirit, inarticulate and misunderstood, beating humbly at
the gates of speech. Natheless was the Author quite incredulous, and even
while he was listening reverently to these voices from Steadland,
his cold cynic brain was revolving a scientific theory to account
for the striking manifestations.

In the course of two or three _séances_, with lights turned low,
but honesty burning high--for Lady Macbeth was guileless, and her
Chaperon above suspicion,--various other "spirits" hastened to be
interviewed.

There was "Ma," who afterwards turned out to be the Chaperon's "Pa," whose
name--a queer French name--it gave in full. The Chaperon's "Pa," who was
dead, announced he was no longer a widower, for his relief had just
rejoined him on Wednesday--the 10th. This news of her mother's death
was unknown to the Chaperon. In truth, "Pa" is still a widower.

Another "spirit"--a woman (who refused to give her age)--predicted that the
amount of money taken at the theatre the next night would be £44. The
actual returns on the morrow were £44 0_s_. 6_d_. But when, elated by
its success, it prophesied £43, the returns were only £34. But this same
creature, that gave only an inverted truth--perhaps it was momentarily
controlled by the spirit of Oscar Wilde--displayed remarkable knowledge in
other directions. Asked if it knew what piece had been played the week
before in the theatre--a question that none of the three could have
answered--it replied, "'The Road to ----'" "Do you mean 'The Road to Ruin'?"
the Author interrupted eagerly, tired of its tedious letter-by-letter
methods.

"No," it responded vehemently; and finished, "'F-o-r-t-u-n-e.'" Lady Macbeth
consulted the "Era," and sure enough "The Road to Fortune" had preceded her
own company. "Can you tell us the piece to follow?" the author asked; and
the "spirit" responded readily "'The Pro----'" "Do you mean 'The
Professor's Love Story'?" the Author again interrupted. "No; 'The Prodigal,'"
answered the table. "Ah! 'The Prodigal,'" echoed the Author, confounding
it temporarily with "The Profligate"; but the spirit dissented, and
added, "'Daughter.'" There being no means of verifying this for the
moment, the Author proceeded to inquire for the piece to follow that,
and was unhesitatingly informed that it was "The Bauble Shop." "Where
is 'The Bauble Shop' now?" he inquired. The spirit amiably rapped out
"Eastbourne." This was correct according to the "Era." Consulting the
hoardings after leaving the house, the Author discovered that the other
replies were quite exact, save for the fact that "The Bauble Shop"
was to come first and "The Prodigal Daughter" second.

Here was the paradoxical humour of this Oscar Wilde-ish "spirit"
again.

Endless was the information vouchsafed by these disembodied intelligences,
in any language one pleased; and, although they at times displayed
remarkable obstinacy, refusing to answer, or breaking off abruptly
in the middle of a most interesting communication, as though they
had been betrayed into indiscretion: yet, to speak generally, there
was scarcely any topic on which they were not ready to discourse--past,
present, or to come--and their remarks, whether accurate or not,
were invariably logical, bearing an intelligible relation to the
question.

  Even sporting tips were obtainable without
  a fee, and Avington was given as the winner
  of the Liverpool Cup, though the Author had
  never heard of him, and the other two were not aware he was booked
for the race, still less that he was the favourite.

In the sequel he only came second.

Real tips did the "spirits" give, tipping the table vehemently. They were
also very obedient to commands, moving or lifting the table in whatsoever
direction the Author ordered, much as though they were men from Maple's;
and when he willed them to raise it, the united forces of Lady Macbeth
and Lady Macbeth's Chaperon could not easily depress its spirits. Nor did
they contradict one another. There was a cheerful unanimity about the
Author's dying at fifty-seven. But this did not perturb the Author, whose
questions were all cunningly contrived to test his theory of the
"spiritual world."

For instance, he set them naming cards, placed on the table with faces
downwards and _unknown to anybody_; arguing that with their bloated
omniscience they could scarcely fail to name a card shoved under
their very noses.

Nor did they--altogether. Most began well, but were spoiled by success.
However, here is the record performance--eight consecutive attempts of the
table to give the "correct card" under the imposition of the hands of the
Chaperon and the Author only, neither knowing the card till it was turned
up to verify the table's assertion:

TABLE'S CARD. ACTUAL CARD.

1. Jack of Diamonds . . . Queen of Spades.

2. Jack of Diamonds . . . Jack of Diamonds.

3. Three of Clubs . . . Jack of Spades.

4. Jack of Diamonds . . . Jack of Diamonds.

5. Seven of Clubs . . . Five of Diamonds.

6. Three of Spades . . . Three of Spades.

7. Ten of Hearts . . . Ten of Hearts.

8. Nine of Clubs . . . Nine of Clubs.

Here are five bull's-eyes out of eight shots! The name of the performer
deserves record.

It was the spirit of a German woman, named Gretehen, who died three
years ago, but refused to say at what age.

She was wrong sometimes, but then it may have been her feminine instinct
for fibbing.

"The spirits play tricks," say the spiritualists.

"Sometimes they are wicked spirits, who tell lies." The Planchette
also wrote out the names of unseen cards placed upon it face
downwards.

The artistic spirit of the Author now bids him pause: the narrative has now
reached a point of interest at which recollections of "Tom Tiddler's
Schooldays" urge him to pen the breathless motto: "To be continued
in our next."

XVII
A THEORY OF TABLE-TURNING

The yearning of humanity for the supernatural, even for the pseudo-supernatural,
is as pathetic as it is profound. Wherefore I regret that I can make no
concessions to it. The following theory of table-turning came to me as
I experimented, from my general knowledge of psychology. I have not
compared it with the theories of the Psychical Society, which I have never
read, preferring to jot down the impressions of an independent observer,
which, if they should at all coincide with the explanations of the
spook-hunters, will irrefutably demonstrate that their Society was
founded in vain. If, moreover, as Mr. Andrew Lang has since pointed
out, it coincides largely with the theory of Dr. Carpenter, so much the
better.

What are the facts? If two or more people (according to the size of the
table) place their hands in circular contact around a table, and
possess their souls in patience for a delightfully uncertain period,
sundry strange manifestations will occur.

Even after the first few moments the more imaginative will feel the
table throbbing, unsuspicious of the fact that it is the blood at
their finger-tips.

Presently, too, an uncanny wave of cold air will pass underneath the arch
of their palms. This is, according to the professional witches of Endor,
the frigid flitting of the spirits, but the most superficial meteorologist
will expound it you learnedly. Your hand, passive and in a fixed position,
heats the air under it, which, becoming lighter, is constantly
displaced by the colder circumambient air.

Finally, when everybody is wrought up to an exalted expectation of the
supernatural, the table begins to oscillate, to move slowly to and fro,
to waltz, and even to raise itself partially or wholly off the
ground. Sometimes it taps instead of moving. Nor are these motions and
these taps merely the intoxicated irregularities of an exuberant
energy.

They are coherent responses (according to a code agreed upon with the "spirit"
in possession) to questions asked by one of the sitters. They are the
expression of infinite and ungrudging information on almost every subject.
Through this wooden language, through this music of the tables and this
dancing movement of their legs, tabular information respecting your
past or other people's past and future lives, together with full details
of the doings of the departed in those other spheres of heaven or hell
which they adorn or illumine respectively, may be obtained at the lowest
rates, and with only that reasonable delay which results from the
exigencies of a letter-code.

For the "spirits" of the table, be it understood, are unable to
communicate with earth except by taps and movements for "yes" or "no," or
by rapping out numbers; so that they have to signify their meaning,
snailwise, letter by letter. The "spirit" of the Planchette will
indeed write you out sentences; but to that, like the actor in melodrama,
I will return anon.

In the stock _séances_, I know, spirits materialise themselves and glide
white-sheeted through darkened rooms. But as my own _séances_ and
"spirits" were personally conducted by myself, the optical illusions of
Messrs.

Maskelyne & Cook, the Pepper's Ghost of the dear old Polytechnic,
had no opportunity of putting in an appearance.

My spooks did nothing but answer questions, so that the very suggestion that
they were spirits came entirely from me. In fact, they do but dance to
the "medium's" piping; and should he suggest that they are methylated,
the chances are that not a few would cheerfully acquiesce in this
description of themselves.

In short, it is only the prepossession, the pathetic prejudice, in
favour of visitors from other worlds that leads at all to the thought
of "spirits," drawing such a red herring across the track that the
average observer, who is nothing if not unobservant, has all his
partisan faculties of mis-observation brought into full play on
behalf of the spirit-world.

Doubtless the actual presence of "spirits" is the cheapest way of
accounting for the phenomena.

But one might as well call in "spirits" to explain the dancing of a kettle-lid.
Not till every natural hypothesis has been exhausted is the scientific
observer entitled to call in the supernatural.

And in reality all that has to be explained is the mechanical movements of
tables under certain specified conditions, the said movements
having an apparent relation to will and intelligence.

First of all, what moves the table?

Well, the slightest exercise of the finger or wrist muscles is sufficient
to move the small, light round table which is usually the subject
of experiment; and when once the slightest movement is established--by
the involuntary contraction of a single muscle--all the other
persons' muscles, in accommodating themselves to the movement of
the table, cannot help helping it, either by pulling or pushing in
the direction in which it is going.

It is, in fact, almost impossible to follow the movement of a moving
table and yet keep your superimposed hands perfectly passive; and
with ninety-nine persons out of a hundred the startled interest in
the movement even begets an unconscious desire to help it, which
at times almost rises to a curious semi-conscious self-deception,
a voluntary exaggeration of the marvellous.

Yet nothing makes the ordinary sitter angrier than to be told
he has helped to move the table. It is as though he were accused of
cheating at whist, or worse, of playing a foolish card.

Take half a dozen persons at random, and there are sure to be one or two so
impressionable and emotional that they cannot help contributing the slight
initial impulse which gathers force as it goes. These nervous subjects
cannot sit a quarter of an hour perfectly still without a twitching of the
muscles, while the tense state of expectation which subtly transforms
itself into a wish to see the table move and not have the experiment in
vain, finally compels them, despite themselves, to start the
"manifestations." Indeed, to think of a thing is half to do it.
Every idea has a tendency to project itself in action. If you think strongly,
for instance, of lifting your hand, it is difficult not to do it, for the
idea of motion is motion in embryo. The wish is father to the thought,
and the thought to the deed. The wish to see the table move is the grandfather
of its motion. Even with the most sceptical, when the table is requested
to go in a particular direction the muscles involuntarily tend thither.
All the deepest analyses of scientific psychology are involved in
this wretched little episode of table-turning, and it is not marvellous
that the ordinary observer should perceive only the marvellous.

So much for the movements. But how about the raps? How about those
mysterious tappings which come from the very heart of the table, as eloquent
of the preternatural as those immortal taps heard by Poe ere the
raven stepped into his chamber?

I should be more impressed by these taps if I were not capable of
manufacturing them myself _ad lib._ without detection, by secretly
manipulating the ball of my thumb.

One is therefore justified in assuming that, where these raps are not produced
by conscious fraud, they are the involuntary result of the same motions
that produced them voluntarily. Even wood has a certain elasticity, and
an imperceptible increase followed by an imperceptible relaxation of
pressure on the surface of the table will alter the tension of the
wood, the molecules of which in springing back to their prior
position will emit a creak or a tap, just as a piece of extended
elastic will when let go again.

Both the raps and the movements, then, are in essence phenomena of
the same order: simple results of muscular pressure, conscious,
sub-conscious, or unconscious.

It now only remains to explain the answers themselves, to account not
only for their almost invariably logical form, but also for their
occasionally astonishing content. For the table is not infrequently
wiser than anybody in the room; also it knows the past and is ready to
predict the future.

The whole thing is really an excellent object-lesson in Psychology. For the
solution is obvious. The table being unconscious, _you answer yourself_--you
not only produce the raps and movements, but you regulate them.

The connection between mind and body is, it seems to me, admirably
illustrated by table-turning.

According to the latest philosophic view, the connection itself defies
human comprehension. It is simply a case of _non possumus intelligere_.
But the connection itself may be expressed thus: No idea or feeling without
physical disturbance, no physical disturbance without feeling or
idea. Mind and body are as related as the tune to the violin-string. Every
state of mind tends to set up nervous vibration, and every nervous
vibration tends to set up a state of mind.
In either case the tendency may be, and usually is, counteracted. The
average member of a spiritualistic circle cannot prevent the thought in
his brain taking on bodily expression to the extent of a muscular contraction
stimulating the very sensitive tips of the fingers.

You cannot think of a joke or see the humour of anything without wanting to
smile, though you may suppress your smile in obedience to other
considerations.

Nor can you put your features into smiling position, without experiencing
a latent sense of amusement, though you would not know what you
were smiling at.

But if six cool scientific intellects, acquainted with the tricks
of their own organisms and determined to dissever thought from
motion, were to sit round a table, they might sit till doomsday
without the "spirit" turning up.

This is what the spiritualists mean by unsympathetic persons, persons
obnoxious to the spirits, persons with antipathetic auras, and all
the rest of the jargon.

But six intellects taken at random, being anything but cool and scientific,
are not able to prevent their ideas passing over into action
in the shape of muscular twitches; though if even the unscientific
were to look up at the ceiling and forget all about the table, the
table would probably forget to move.

Now the majority of the replies of the table deal with matters actively
present to the consciousness of at least one of the six owners of the
superimposed hands. When the table raps out something known only to this
one person, and the startled person admits that the table is right,
an uncanny feeling is produced; the table seems at least to be a
thought-reader, and on this wave of astonishment the hypothesis of
"spirits" rides up triumphantly.

When the topic is one of which nobody knows anything--_e.g._, whether
the supposed spirit is a man or woman--chance, or a vague idea floating
up in the mind of one of the party, determines the reply.

But what of those replies in which some striking truth is told of
which none of the party was conscious, as for instance in the
examples I gave in my last, when the table informed us that Mr.

Jones's "Bauble Shop" was then playing at Eastbourne, or that "The Road
to Fortune" had been playing in the town in which we were the week
before we arrived?

To clear up this most remarkable aspect of the whole matter we must
go still deeper into Psychology.

What we are pleased to call our Mind is made up of two parts--our
Consciousness and--what I shall call loosely yet sufficingly and without
prejudice to Metaphysics--our Sub-Consciousness.

The latter is immeasurably the vaster portion. It is a tossing ocean
of thoughts which feeds the narrow little fountain of Consciousness.

It holds all our memories. We cannot be conscious of all ourselves and
all our past at once--that way madness lies, or divinity. We may
know ten languages, but we can only think in the mould of one at a time.
Our thoughts and memories can only come up into clear Consciousness
by ones or twos--to be dealt with and then dismissed.

"We broke the others, but we had that one mounted as a warning to him.
Papa has no taste at all."

The tutor's face was a study. It was the first of these remarks he had
heard.

The children decided that it would balance the table better if he poured
out the tea, and he good-naturedly acquiesced, and sat down with Angelica
on his right, and Diavolo on his left. The fourth seat opposite was
unoccupied, but there was a cover laid, and he asked who was expected.

"Oh, that is for the Peace Angel," said Diavolo casually.

"Prevents difficulties at tea, you know," Angelica supplemented.
"_We_ don't mind difficulties, but we thought you might object, so we
asked his holiness"--indicating the empty chair--"to preserve order."

Mr. Ellis did not at first appreciate the boon which was conferred on him
by the presence of the Peace Angel, but he soon learnt to.

"I am on my honour and thick bread and butter to-day," said Diavolo,
looking longingly at the plentiful supply and variety of cakes on the
table.

"What does that mean exactly?" Mr. Ellis asked, pausing with the teapot
raised to pour.

"Why, you see, he was naughty this morning," Angelica explained. "And as
mamma was going out, she put him on his honour, as a punishment, not to
eat cake."

"I've a good mind not to eat anything," said Diavolo, considering the
plate of thick bread and butter beside him discontentedly.

"Then you'll be cutting off your nose to vex your face," said Angelica.

Diavolo caught up a piece of bread and butter to throw at her; but she
held up her hand, crying: "I appeal to the Peace Angel!"

"I forgot," said Diavolo, transferring the bread to his plate.

The children studied the tutor during tea.

He was a man of thirty, somewhat careworn about the eyes, but with an
excessively kind and pleasant face, clean shaven; and thick, reddy-brown
hair. He was above the middle height, a little stooped at the shoulders,
but of average strength.

"I like the look of you," said Angelica frankly.

"Thank you," he answered, smiling.

"And I vote for a permanent arrangement," she said, looking at Diavolo.

He was just then hidden behind a huge slice of bread, biting it, but he
nodded intelligently.

The permanent arrangement referred to was to have the tutor to tea, and he
agreed, wisely stipulating, however, that the presence of the Peace Angel
should also be permanent. He even tried to persuade the twins to invite
him to lessons; but that they firmly declined.

"You'll like being our tutor, I think," Diavolo observed during this first
tea.

"He will if we like him," said Angelica significantly.

"Are we going to?" Diavolo asked.

"Yes, I think so," she answered, taking another good look at Mr. Ellis. "I
like the look of that red in his hair."

"Now, isn't that a woman's reason?" Diavolo exclaimed, appealing to Mr.
Ellis.

"Yes, it is," said Angelica, preparing to defend it by shuffling a
note-book out of her pocket, and ruffling the leaves over: "Listen to
this"--and she read--"'A tinge of red in the hair denotes strength and
energy of character and good staying power.' We don't want a muff for a
tutor, do we? There are born muffs enough in the family without importing
them. And a woman's reason is always a good one, as men might see if
they'd only stop chattering and listen to it."

"It mayn't be well expressed, but it will bear examination," Mr. Ellis
suggested.

"Do you like being a tutor?" Diavolo.

"It depends on whom I have to teach."

"If you're a good fellow, you'll have a nice time here--on the whole--I
hope, sir," Angelica observed. "But why are you a tutor?"

"To earn my living," Mr. Ellis answered, smiling again.

The children remembered this, and when they were having tea under the
shadow of the supposititious Peace Angel's wing, after the first occasion
on which, when the tutor tried to separate them during a fight at lessons,
they had turned simultaneously and attacked him, they made it the text of
some recommendations. He expressed a strong objection to having manual
labour imposed upon him as well as his other work: but they maintained
that if only he had called the affray "a struggle for daily bread" or "a
fight for a livelihood," he would quite have enjoyed it; and they further
suggested that such diversion must be much more interesting than being a
mere commonplace tutor who only taught lessons. They could not understand
why a fight was not as much fun for him as for them, and thought him
unreasonable when they found he was not to be persuaded to countenance
that way of varying the monotony. Not that there was ever much monotony in
the neighbourhood of the Heavenly Twins; they managed to introduce variety
into everything, and their quickness of action, when both were roused, was
phenomenal. One day while at work they saw a sparrow pick up a piece of
bread, take it to the roof-tree of an angle of the house visible from the
schoolroom window, drop it, and chase it as it fell; and the twins had
made a bet as to which would beat, bird or bread, quarrelled because they
could not agree as to which had bet on bird and which on bread, and boxed
each other's ears almost before the race was over.

Mr. Ellis, although continually upon his guard, was not by any means
always a match for them. Over and over again he found that his caution had
been fanned to sleep by flattering attentions, while traps were being laid
for him with the most innocent air in the world, as on one occasion when
Diavolo betrayed him into a dissertation on the consistency of the
Scriptures, and Angelica asked him to kindly show her how to reconcile
Prov. viii. 2: "For wisdom is better than rubies; and all the things that
may be desired are not be compared to it," with Eccles. i. 18: "For in
much wisdom is much grief; and he that increaseth knowledge increaseth
sorrow."

His way with them was admirable, however, and he completely won their
hearts. The thing that they respected him for most was the fact that he
took in _Punch_ on his own account, and could show you a lot of
things in it that you could never have discovered yourself, as Angelica
said, and read bits in a way that made them seem ever so much funnier than
when _you_ read them; and could tell you who drew the pictures the
moment he looked at them--so that "_Punch_ Day" came to be looked
forward to by the children as one of the pleasantest events of the week.
Lessons were suspended the moment the paper arrived, if they had been good;
but when they were naughty Mr. Ellis put the paper in his pocket, and
that was the greatest punishment he could inflict upon them--the only one
that ever made them sulk. They would be good for hours in advance to earn
the right of having _Punch_ shown to them the moment it came. And it
was certainly by means of his intelligent interpretation of it that their
tutor managed to cultivate their tastes in many ways, and give them true
ideas of art, and the importance of art, at the outset, and also of
ethics. He was as careful of Angelica's physical as of her mental
education, being himself strongly imbued by the then new idea that a woman
should have the full use of her limbs, lungs, heart, and every other organ
and muscle, so that life might be a pleasure to her and not a continual
exertion. He had a strong objection to the artificial waist, and impressed
the beauty of Tenniel's classical purity of figure upon the children by
teaching them to appreciate the contrast it presents to the bulging
vulgarities made manifest by Keene; and showed them also that while Du
Maurier depicted with admirable artistic interpretation the refined
surroundings and attenuated forms of women as they are, Linley Sambourne,
that master of lovely line, pointed the moral by drawing women as they
should be. There was nothing conventional about the Heavenly Twins, and it
was therefore easy to make a good impression upon them in this direction,
and, the tutor soon had a practical proof of his success which must have
been eminently satisfactory if a trifle embarrassing.

The children were out on the lawn in front of the house one afternoon when
a lady arrived to call upon their mother. They were struck by her
appearance as she descended from her carriage, and followed her into the
drawing room to have a good look at her. She was one of those heroic women
who have the constancy to squeeze their figures in beyond the Y shape,
which is the commonest deformity, to that of the hourglass which bulges
out more above and below the line of compression.

There were a good many other people in the room, whom the Heavenly Twins
saluted politely; and then they sat down opposite to the object of their
interest and gazed at her.

"Why are you tied so tight in the middle?" Angelica asked at last in a
voice that silenced everybody else in the room. "Doesn't it hurt? I mean
to have a _good_ figure when I grow up, like the Venus de Medici, you
know. I can show you a picture of her, if you like. She hasn't a stitch on
her."

"She looks awfully nice, though," said Diavolo, "and Angelica thinks she'd
be able to eat more with that kind of figure."

"Yes," Angelica candidly confessed, looking at her victim compassionately.
"I shouldn't think, now, that you can eat both pudding and meat, can you?"

"Not to mention dessert!" Diavolo ejaculated with genuine concern.

"Mr. Ellis, will you get those children out of the room, somehow," Lady
Adeline whispered to the tutor, who had come in for tea.

"Is it true, do you think," Mr. Ellis began loudly, addressing Mr.
Hamilton-Wells across the room--"Is it true that Dr. Galbraith is going to
try some horrible experiments in vivisection this afternoon?"

"What is vivisection?" asked Angelica, diverted.

"Cutting up live animals to find out what makes them go," said the tutor.

In three minutes there wasn't a vestige of the Heavenly Twins about the
place.


CHAPTER XX.


The twins had a code of ethics which differed in some respects from that
ordinarily accepted in their state of life. They honoured their
mother--they couldn't help it, as they said themselves, apologetically;
but their father they looked upon as fair game for their amusement.

"What was that unearthly noise I heard this morning?" Mr. Ellis asked one
day.

"Oh, did we wake you, sir?" Diavolo exclaimed. "We didn't mean to. We were
only yowling papa out of bed with our fiddles. He's idle sometimes, and
won't get up, and it's so bad for him, you know."

"I wish you could see him scooting down the corridor after us," Angelica
observed. "And do you know, he speaks just the same at that time of day in
his dressing gown, as he does, in the evening in dress clothes. You'd die
if you heard him."

Another habit of the twins was to read any letters they might find lying
about.

"It is dishonourable to read other people's letters," Mr. Ellis admonished
them severely when he became aware of this peculiarity.

"It isn't for us," Angelica answered defiantly. "You might as well say its
dishonourable to squint. We've always done it, and everybody knows we do
it. We warn them not to leave their letters lying about, don't we,
Diavolo?"

"That is because it is greater fun to hunt for them," Diavolo interpreted
precisely. When Angelica gave a reason he usually cleared it of all
obscurity in this way.

"And how are we to know what goes on in the family if we don't read the
letters?" Angelica demanded.

"What necessity is there for you to know?"

"Every necessity!" she retorted. "Not be interested in one's own family
affairs? Why, we should we wanting in intelligence, and we're not that,
you know! And we should be wanting in affection, too, and every right
feeling; and I hope we are not that either, Mr. Ellis, _quite_. But
you needn't be afraid about your own letters. We shan't touch them."

"No," drawled Diavolo. "Of course that would be a very different thing."

"I am glad you draw the line somewhere," Mr. Ellis observed sarcastically.
He was far from satisfied, however, but he noticed eventually that the
dust collected on letters of his own if he left them lying about, and he
soon discovered that when his intelligent pupils gave their word they kept
it uncompromisingly. It was one of their virtues, and the other was
loyalty to each other. Their devotion to their mother hardly counted for a
virtue, because they never carried it far enough to make any sacrifice for
her sake. But they would have sacrificed their very lives for each other,
and would have fought for the right to die until there was very little
left of either of them to execute; of such peculiar quality were their
affections.

They had gone straight to Fountain Towers by the shortest cut across the
fields that afternoon when Mr. Ellis suggested vivisection as a possible
occupation for Dr. Galbraith. They never doubted but that they should
discover him hard at work, in some underground cellar most likely, to
which they would be guided by the cries of his victims, and would be able
to conquer his reluctance to allow them to assist at his experiments, by
threats of exposure; and they were considerably chagrined when, having
carefully concealed themselves in a thick shrubbery, in order to
reconnoitre the house, they came upon him in the garden, innocently
occupied in the idle pursuit of pruning rose trees.

He was somewhat startled himself when he suddenly saw their hot red faces,
set like two moons in a clump of greenery, peeping out at him with
animated eyes.

"Hollo!" he said. "Are you hungry?" The faces disappeared behind the
bushes.

"Are we, Angelica?" Diavolo whispered anxiously.

"Of course we are," she retorted.

"I thought we were too angry--disgusted--disappointed--_something_"
he murmured apologetically, but evidently much relieved.

Dr. Galbraith went on with his pruning, and presently the twins appeared
walking down the proper approach to the garden hand in hand demurely.

After they had saluted their host politely, they stood and stared at him.

"Well?" he said at last.

"I suppose we are too late?" said Angelica.

"For what?" he asked, without pausing in his occupation.

"For the viv-viv-vivinesectionining."

"Vivinesectionining! What on earth--Oh!" Light broke in upon him. "Who
told you I was?"

"Mr. Ellis," said Angelica.

"No, he didn't tell us you were exactly," Diavolo explained with
conscientious accuracy. "He asked papa if it was true that you were going
to this afternoon?"

"And what were _you_ doing?" Dr. Galbraith asked astutely.

"We were in the drawing room," Angelica answered, "trying to find out from
a lady why she tied herself up so tight in the middle."

"And so you came off here to see?"

"Yes," said Diavolo. "We wanted to catch you at it."

"You little brute, misbegotten by the--" Dr. Galbraith began, but Diavolo
interrupted him.

"_Sir!_" he exclaimed, drawing himself up with an expression of as
much indignation as could be got into his small patrician features. "If
you do not instantly withdraw that calumny, I shall have to fight you on
my mother's behalf, and I shall consider it my duty to inform her of the
insinuation which is the cause of offence."

"I apologize," said Dr. Galbraith, taking off his hat and bowing low. "I
assure you the expression was used as a mere _façon de parler_."

"I accept your explanation, sir," said Diavolo, returning the salute. "But
I caution you to be careful for the future. What is a _façon de
parler_, Angelica?" he whispered as he put his hat on.

"Oh, just a way of saying it," she answered. "I wish you wouldn't talk so
much. Men are always cackling by the hour all about nothing. If people
come to see me when _I_ have a house of my own, I shall not forget
the rites of hospitality."

The doctor put up his pruning knife. There was a twinkle in his gray eyes.

"If you will do me the favour to come this way," he said, "my slaves will
prepare a small collation on the instant."

"Oh, yes," said Diavolo. "Arabian Nights, you know! You must have fresh
fruits and dried fruits, choice wines, cakes, sweets, and nuts."

"It shall be done as my lord commands," said the doctor.

That same evening, when he took the children home, Dr. Galbraith found
Lady Adeline alone. She was a plain woman, but well-bred in appearance;
and tender thoughts had carved a sweet expression on her face.

Next to her brother Dawne, Dawne's most intimate friend, Dr. Galbraith,
was the man in the world upon whom she placed the greatest reliance.

"I have brought back the children," he said.

"Ah. then they _have_ been with you!" she answered in a tone of
relief. "We hoped they were."

"Oh, yes," he said smiling. "They showed me exactly what the difficulty
here had been, and I have been endeavouring to win back their esteem, for
they made it appear plainly that they despised me when they found me
peacefully pruning rose trees instead of dismembering live rabbits, as Mr.
Ellis had apparently led them to expect."

"They told you, then?"

"Oh, exactly, I am sure--about the lady tied too tight in the middle, and
everything."

"They are terrible, George, those children," Lady Adeline declared. "My
whole life is one ache of anxiety on their account. I am always in doubt
as to whether their unnatural acuteness portends vice or is promising; and
whether we are doing all that ought to be done for them."

"I am sure they are in very good hands now," he answered cheerfully. "Mr.
Ellis is an exceedingly good fellow; they like him too, and I don't think
anybody could manage them better."

"No;" said Lady Adeline: "but that only means that no one can manage them
at all. They are everywhere. They know everything. They have already
mastered every fact in natural history that can be learnt upon the estate;
and they will do almost anything, and are so unscrupulous that I fear
sometimes they are going to take after some criminal ancestor there may
have been in the family, although I never heard of one, and go to the bad
altogether. Now, what is to be done with such children? I hardly dare
allow myself to hope that they have good qualities enough to save them,
and yet--and yet they are lovable," she added, looking at him wistfully.

"Most lovable, and I am sure you need not disturb yourself seriously," he
answered with confidence. "The children have vivid imaginations and
incomparable courage; and their love of mischief comes from exuberance of
spirits only, I am sure. When Angelica's womanly instincts develop, and
she has seen something of the serious side of life--been made to
_feel_ it, I mean--she will become a very different person, or I am
much mistaken. Her character promises to be as fine, when it is formed, as
it will certainly be unusual. And as for Diavolo--well, I have seen no
sign of any positive vice in either of them."

"You comfort me," said Lady Adeline. "How did you entertain them?"

"Oh, we had great fun!" he replied, laughing. "We had an impromptu Arabian
Night's entertainment with all the men and women about the place disguised
as slaves; and they all entered into the spirit of the thing heartily. I
assure you, I never enjoyed anything more in my life. But I must go. I am
on my way to town to-night to read a paper to-morrow morning upon a most
interesting case of retarded brain development, which I have been studying
for the last year. If I am right in my conclusions, we are upon the high
road to some extraordinary and most valuable discoveries."

"Now, that is a singular man," Lady Adeline remarked to Mr. Ellis
afterward. She had been telling the tutor about the success of his
stratagem. "He spent valuable hours to-day playing with my children, and
he says he never enjoyed anything so much in his life, and I quite believe
him; and to-morrow he will probably astonish the scientific world with a
discovery of the last importance."

"I call him a human being, perfectly possessed of all his faculties," Mr.
Ellis answered.

The twins worked well by fits and starts; but when they did not chose to
be diligent, they considerately gave their tutor a holiday. The last
threat of a thrashing for Diavolo happened to be on the first of these
occasions.

"It looks a good morning for fishing" he remarked casually to Angelica,
just after they had settled down to lessons.

"Yes, it does," she answered.

There was a momentary pause, and then away went their books, and they were
off out of the window.

But Mr. Ellis succeeded in capturing them, and, laying hold of an arm of
each, he dragged them before the paternal tribunal in the library. He was
not intimate with the peculiar relations of the household to each other at
that particular time, and he thought Mr. Hamilton-Wells would prefer to
order the punishment himself for so serious an offence. Angelica shook her
hair over her face, and made sufficient feint of resistance to tumble her
frock on the way, while Diavolo pretended to be terror-stricken; but this
was only to please Mr. Ellis with the delusion that fear of their father
gave him a moral hold over them, for the moment Mr. Hamilton-Wells frowned
upon them they straightened themselves and beamed about blandly.

Mr. Hamilton-Wells ordered Diavolo to be thrashed, and Diavolo dashed off
for the cane and handed it to his tutor politely, saying at the same time:
"Do be quick, Mr. Ellis, I want to get out."

"You wouldn't dare to thrash him if he were big enough to thrash you
back," Angelica shrieked, waltzing round like a tornado; "and it isn't
fair to thrash him and not me, for I am much worse than he is. You know I
am, papa! and I shall _hate_ you if Diavolo is thrashed, and teach
him how to make your life a burden to you for a month, I
_shall_"--stamping her foot.

It always made her blood boil if there were any question of corporal
punishment for Diavolo. She could have endured it herself without a
murmur, but she had a feminine objection to knowing that it was being
inflicted, especially as she was not allowed to be present.

"Don't be an idiot, Angelica," Diavolo drawled. "I would rather be
thrashed, and have done with it. It does fellows good to be thrashed;
makes them manly, they say in the books. And it hurts a jolly sight less
than being scratched by _you_, if that is any comfort."

"Oh, you _are_ mean!" Angelica exclaimed. "Wait till we get outside!"

"I think, sir," Mr. Ellis ventured to suggest in answer to an appealing
glance from Mr. Hamilton-Wells, and looking dubiously at the cane--"I
think, since Diavolo doesn't care a rap about being flogged, I had better
devise a form of punishment for which he will care."

"Then come along, Diavolo," Angelica exclaimed, making a dash for the
door. "They won't want us while they're devising."

Mr. Ellis would have followed them, but Mr. Hamilton-Wells gently
restrained him. "It is no use, Mr. Ellis," he said, sighing deeply. "I
would recommend you to keep up a show of disapproval for form's sake, but
I beg that you will not give yourself any unnecessary trouble. They are
quite incorrigible."

"I hope not," the tutor answered.

"Well, I leave them to you, make what you can of them!" their father
rejoined. "I wash my hands of the responsibility while you are here."

The Heavenly Twins got their day's sport on that occasion, and returned
with a basket full of trout for tea, fishy themselves, and tired, but
bland and conciliatory. They dressed for the evening carefully, and
without coercion, which was always a sign of repentance; and then they
went down to the schoolroom, where they found Mr. Ellis standing with his
back to the fireplace, reading a newspaper. He looked at them each in turn
as they entered, and they looked at him, but he made no remark.

"I wish you would give us a good scolding at once, and have done with it,"
Angelica observed.

He made no sign of having heard, however, but quietly turned the paper
over, chose a fresh item of information, and began to read it. Angelica
sat down in her place at table, leant back with her short frock up to her
knees and her long legs tucked under her chair, and reflected: Diavolo did
the same, yawning aggressively.

"I'd sell my birthright for a mess of pottage with pleasure this minute,"
he exclaimed.

"What was pottage, Mr. Ellis?" Angelica asked insinuatingly.

"You don't suppose the recipe has been handed down in the Ellis family, do
you?" said Diavolo.

Angelica looked round for a missile to hurl at him, but there being
nothing handy, she tried the effect of a withering glance, to which he
responded by making a face at her. A storm was evidently brewing, but
fortunately just at that moment the tea arrived, and caused a diversion
which prevented further demonstrations. Happily for those in charge of the
twins, their outbursts of feeling were all squalls which subsided as
suddenly as those of the innocent babe which howls everybody in the house
out of bed for his bottle, and is beyond all comfort till he gets it, when
his anger instantly goes out, and only a few gurgling "Oh's" of intense
satisfaction mark the point from which the racket proceeded.

For a week Mr. Ellis maintained an attitude of dignified reserve with the
twins, and their sociable souls were much exercised to devise a means to
break down the barrier of coldness which they found between themselves and
their tutor. They tried everything they could think of to beguile him back
to the old friendly footing, and it was only after all other means had
failed that they thought at last of apologising for their unruly conduct.
It was the first time that they had ever done such a thing in their lives
spontaneously, and they were so proud of it that they went and told
everybody they knew.

Mr. Ellis, having graciously accepted the apology, found himself expected
to discuss the whole subject at tea that evening.

"Of course, we were quite in the wrong," said Angelica, taking advantage
of the Peace Angel's presence to sum up comprehensively; "but you must
acknowledge that we were not altogether to blame, for you really have not
been making our lessons sufficiently interesting to rivet our attention
lately."

"That is true," said the diligent Diavolo. "My attention has not been
riveted for weeks."

After the twins had made their memorable apology, they were so impressed
by the importance of the event that they determined to celebrate it in
some special way. They wanted to do something really worthy of the
occasion.

"We'll do some good to somebody, shall we?" said Angelica.

"Not unless there's some fun in it," said Diavolo.

"Well, who proposed to do anything without fun in it?" Angelica wanted to
know. "You've no sense at all, Diavolo When people get up fancy fairs and
charity balls, do they pretend to be doing it for fun? No! They say, 'Oh,
my dear, I _am_ so busy, I hardly know what to do first; but what
keeps me up is the object! the good object!' And then they're enjoying it
as hard as they can all the time. And that's what we'll do. We'll give the
school children a treat."

The twins were allowed an hour to riot about the place after their early
dinner, and then a bell was rung to summon them in to lessons, but on that
particular day Mr. Ellis waited in vain for them. Angelica had concealed
her riding habit in a loft, and as soon as they got out they ran to the
stables, which were just then deserted, the men being at their dinner; and
Angelica changed her dress while Diavolo got out their ponies and saddled
them, and having carefully stolen through a thick plantation on to the
high road, they scampered off to Morningquest as hard as their lively
little steeds could carry them.

They were well known in Morningquest, and many an admiring as well as
inquiring glance followed them as they cantered close together side by
side through the quaint old streets. The people were wondering what on
earth they were up to.

"Everybody looks so pleased to see us," said Diavolo, smiling genially; "I
think we ought to come oftener."

"We will," said Angelica.

They pulled up at the principal confectioner's in the place, and bought as
many pounds of sweets as they could carry, desiring the proprietor in a
lordly way to send the bill to Hamilton House at his earliest convenience;
and then they rode off to the largest day school in the city, stationed
themselves on either side of a narrow gateway through which both girls and
boys had to pass to get in, and pelted the children with sweets as they
returned from their midday dinners; and as they had chosen sugar almonds,
birds' eggs, and other varieties of a hard and heavy nature, which,
although interesting in the mouth of a child, are inconvenient when
received in its eyes, and cause irritation, which is apt to be resented,
when pelted at the back of its head, the scene in a few minutes was
extremely animated. This was what the Heavenly Twins called giving the
school children a treat, and they told Mr. Ellis afterward that they
enjoyed doing good very much.

"What shall we do now?" said Diavolo as they walked their ponies aimlessly
down the street when that episode was over.

"Let's call on grandpapa and the bishop," Angelica suggested.

"The bishop first, then," said Diavolo. "They've such good cakes at the
palace."

"Well, that's just why we should do grandpapa first," said Angelica.
"Don't you see? We can have cake at Morne; and we shall be able to eat the
ones at the palace too, if they're better."

"Yes," said Diavolo, with grave precision. "I notice myself, that, however
much I have had, I can always eat a little more of something better."

"That's what they mean by tempting the appetite," observed Angelica
sagely.

When the children arrived at the castle, it occurred to them that it would
be a very good idea to ride right in and go upstairs on their ponies; but
they only succeeded in mounting the broad steps and entering the hall,
where they were captured by the footmen and respectfully persuaded to
alight. They announced that they had come to call on the Duke of
Morningquest, and were conducted to his presence with pomp and ceremony
enough to have embarrassed any other equally dusty dishevelled mortals,
but the twins were not troubled with self-consciousness, and entered with
perfect confidence. The duke was delighted. If there was one thing which
could give him more pleasure than another in his old age, it was the
wicked ways of the Heavenly Twins, and especially of the promising
Angelica, who very much resembled him both in appearance, decision of
character, and sharpness of temper. She promised, however, to be on a much
larger scale, for the duke was diminutive. He looked like one who stands
in a picture at the end of a long line of ancestors, considerably reduced
by the perspective, and it was as if in his person an attempt had been
made to breed the race down to the vanishing point, His high-arched feet
were admired as models of size and shape, and so also were his slender
delicate hands; but neither were agreeable to an educated eye and an
intelligence indifferent to the dignity of dukes, but nice in the matter
of proportion.

The children found their grandfather in the oriel room, so called because
of the great oriel window, which was a small room in itself, although it
looked, as you approached the castle, no bigger than a swallow's nest on
the face of the solid masonry, being the only excrescence visible above
the trees from that point of view. The castle stood on a hill which
descended precipitously from under the oriel, so that the latter almost
overhung the valley in which the city lay below, and commanded a
magnificent view of the flat country beyond, thridded by a shining winding
ribbon of river. The hill was wooded on that side to the top, and the
castle crowned it, rising above the trees in irregular outline against the
sky imposingly. The old duke sat in the oriel often, looking down at the
wonderful prospect, but thinking less of his own vast possessions than of
the great cathedral of Morningquest, which he coveted for Holy Church. He
had become a convert to Roman Catholicism in his old age, and his bigotry
and credulity were as great now as his laxity and scepticism had been
before his conversion.

He was sitting alone with his confessor and private chaplain, Father
Ricardo, a man of middle age, middle height, attenuated form, round head
with coarse black hair, piercing dark eyes, aquiline nose somewhat thick,
and the loose mouth characteristic of devout Roman Catholics, High Church
people, and others who are continually being wound up to worship an unseen
Deity by means of sensuous enjoyment; the uncertain lines into which the
lips fall in repose indicating fairly the habitual extent of their
emotional indulgences. His manners were suave and deferential, his motives
sincerely disinterested in the interests of the Church, his method of
gaining his ends unhampered by any sense of the need of extreme verbal
accuracy. He was reading to the duke when the children were announced, and
rose and bowed low to them as they entered, with a smile of respectful and
affectionate interest.

Diavolo raised his dusty cap to his chest and returned the bow with
punctilious gravity. Angelica tossed him a nod as she passed up the room
in a business-like way to where her grandfather was sitting facing the
window. The old duke looked round as the children approached and his face
relaxed; he did not absolutely smile, but his eyes twinkled.

Angelica plumped down on the arm of his chair, put her arm round his neck,
and deposited a superficial kiss somewhere in the region of his ear, while
Diavolo wrung his hand more ceremoniously, but with much energy. Both
children seemed sure of their welcome, and comported themselves with their
usual unaffected ease of manner. The old duke controlled his mouth, but
there was something in the expression of his countenance which meant that
he would have chuckled if his old sense of humour had not been checked by
the presence of the priest, which held him somehow to his new professions
of faith, and the severe dignity of demeanour that best befits the piety
of a professional saint.

He was wearing a little black velvet skull cap, and Angelica, still
sitting on the arm of his chair, took it off as soon as she had saluted
him, looked into it, and clapped it on to the back of his head again,
somewhat awry.

"I am glad you have your black velvet coat on to-day," she said, embracing
the back of his chair with an arm, and kicking her long legs about in her
fidgety way. "It goes well with your hair, and I like the feel of it."

"Have you a holiday to-day?" the duke demanded with an affectation of
sternness.

"Yes," said Angelica absently, taking up one of his delicate hands and
transferring a costly ring from his slender white forefinger to her own
dirty brown one.

"No," the more exact Diavolo contradicted; "we gave Mr. Ellis a holiday."

"To tell you the truth, grandpapa, I had forgotten all about lessons,"
said Angelica candidly. "I fancy Mr. Ellis is fizzing by this time, don't
you, Diavolo?"

"What are you doing here if you haven't a holiday?" their grandfather
asked.

"Visiting you, sir," Diavolo answered in his peculiar drawl, which always
left you uncertain as to whether he intended an impertinence or not. He
was lying at full length on the floor facing his grandfather, with the
back of his head resting on the low window sill, and the old gentleman was
looking at him admiringly. He was not at all sure of the import of
Diavolo's last reply, but had the tact not to pursue the subject.

The priest had remained standing, with his hands folded upon the book he
had been reading, and a set smile upon his thin intellectual face, behind
which it was easy to see that the busy thoughts came crowding.

Angelica turned on him suddenly, flinging herself from the arm of her
grandfather's chair on to a low seat which stood with its back to the
window, in order to do so.

"I say, Papa Ricardo, I want to ask you," she began. "What do you think of
that Baronne de Chantal, whom you call Sainte, when her son threw himself
across the threshold of their home to prevent her leaving the house, and
she stepped across his body to go and be _religieuse?_"

"It was the heroic act of a holy woman," the priest replied.

"But I thought Home was the woman's sphere?" said Angelica.

"Yes," the priest rejoined, "unless God calls them to religion."

"But did God give her all those children?" Angelica pursued.

"Yes, indeed," said Father Ricardo. "Children are the gift of God."

"Well, so I thought I had heard," Angelica remarked, with a genial air of
being much interested. "But it seems such bad management to give a lady a
lot of children, and then take her away so that she can't look after
them."

The poor old duke had been dull all day. His mind, under the influence of
his father confessor, had been running on the horrors of hell, and such
subjects, together with the necessity of accomplishing certain good works
and setting aside large sums of money in order to excuse himself from such
condemnation as the priest had ventured to hint courteously that even a
great duke might entail upon himself by the quite excusable errors of his
youth; but since the Heavenly Twins arrived the old gentleman had begun to
see things again from a point of view more natural to one of his family,
and his countenance cleared in a way which denoted that his spirits were
rising. Father Ricardo was accustomed to say that the dear children's high
spirits were apt to be too much for his Grace; but this was a mistake, due
doubtless to his extreme humility, which would not allow him to mention
himself, for whom there was no doubt the dear children _were_ apt to
be too much.

The old duke, upon that last remark of Angelica's, twinkled a glance at
his Father Confessor which had an effect on the latter that made itself
apparent in the severity of his reply: "The ways of the Lord are
inscrutable," he said, "and it is presumptuous for mortals, however great
their station, to attempt to fathom them."

"I have heard that before too, often," said Diavolo, with a wise nod of
commendation.

"So have I," said Angelica; and then both children beamed at the priest
cordially, and the long-suppressed chuckle escaped from the duke.

Father Ricardo retired into himself.

"Grandpapa," Diavolo resumed--the Heavenly Twins never allowed the
conversation to flag--"Grandpapa, do you believe there ever was a little
boy who never, never, told a lie?"

"I hope, sir, you do not mean me to infer that you are mendacious?" the
old gentleman sternly rejoined.

"Mendacious?" Diavolo repeated; "that's do I tell lies, isn't it? Well,
you see, sir, it's like this. If I'd been up to something, and you asked
me if I'd done it, I'd say 'Yes' like a shot; but if Angelica had been up
to something, and I knew all about it, and you asked me if she'd done it,
I'd say 'No' flatly."

"Do I understand, sir, that you would tell me a lie 'flatly'?"

"Yes," said Diavolo decidedly, "if you were mean enough to expect me to
sneak on Angelica."

"Father Ricardo," the latter began energetically, "when you tell a lie do
you look straight at a person or just past the side of their heads?"

"_I_ always look straight at a person myself," said Diavolo, gravely
considering the priest; "I can't help it."

"It's the best way," said Angelica with the assurance of one who has tried
both. "I suppose, grandpapa," she pursued, "when people get old they have
nothing to tell lies about. They just sit and listen to them;" and again
she looked hard at Father Ricardo, whose face had gradually become
suffused with an angry red.

"I should think, Father Ricardo," said Diavolo, observing this, "if you
were a layman, you would be feeling now as if you could throttle us?"

But before the poor priest could utter the reproof which trembled on his
lips, the door opened and the duke's unmarried daughter and youngest
child, the beautiful Lady Fulda, entered, and changed the moral atmosphere
in a moment.

Both children rose to receive her tender kisses affectionately.

Their passionate appreciation of all things beautiful betrayed itself in
the way they gazed at her; and hers was the only presence that ever
subdued them for a moment.

"I like her in white and gold," Angelica remarked to Diavolo when she had
looked her longest.

"So do I," Diavolo rejoined with a nod of satisfaction.

"My dear children!" Lady Fulda exclaimed. "You must not discuss my
appearance in that way. You speak of me as if I were not here."

"You never seem to be here, somehow," said Diavolo, struggling with a big
thought he could not express. "I always feel when you come in as if you
were miles and miles away from us. Now, mamma is always close to us, and
papa gets quite in the way; but you seem to be"--he raised both hands high
above his head, with the palms spread outward, and then let his arms sink
to his sides slowly. The gesture expressed an immeasurable distance above
and beyond him.

"Yes," said Angelica, "I feel that too. But sometimes, when there's music
and flowers and no light to speak of--in church, you know--and you feel as
if angels might be about, or even the Lord himself, I rise up beside you
somehow, and come quite close."

Lady Fulda's eyes deepened with feeling as Angelica spoke, and drawing the
child to her side, she smoothed her hair, and gazed down into her face
earnestly, as if she would penetrate the veil of flesh that baffled her
when she tried to see clearly the soul of which Angelica occasionally gave
her some such glimpse.

The old duke glanced round at the clock, and instantly the attentive
priest stepped to the window and opened it wide. Then the duke raised his
hand as if to enjoin silence, and presently the music of the bells of the
city clocks, striking the hour in various tones, and all at different
moments, causing a continuous murmurous sea of sound, arose from below.
When the last vibration ceased there was a quite perceptible pause. The
duke took off his little round black velvet cap, and leant forward,
listening intently; Lady Fulda bent her head and her lips moved; the
priest folded his hands and looked straight before him with the
unconscious eyes of one absorbed in thought or prayer who sees not; the
twins, assuming a sanctimonious expression, bowed their hypocritical heads
and watched what was going on out of the corners of their eyes. There was
a moment's interval, and then came the chime, mellowed by distance, but
clear and resonant:

[Illustration: (musical notation); lyrics: He, watch-ing o-ver Is--ra--el,
slumbers not, nor sleeps.]

It was the habit of the old duke to listen for it hour by hour, and while
it rang, he, and those of his household who shared his faith, offered a
fervent prayer for the restoration of Holy Church.

Lady Fulda insisted on sending the children home under proper escort. They
strongly objected. They said they were not going straight home; they had
to call on the Bishop of Morningquest.

"Why are you going to call on the Bishop of Morningquest?" their aunt
asked.

"We wish to see him," Angelica answered stiffly.

"On the subject of rotten potatoes," Diavolo supplemented. Lady Fulda
stared.

"Sainte Chantal, you know," said the ready Angelica. The reason was new to
her, but the twins usually understood each other like a flash. "They put a
rotten potato on her plate one day at dinner, and she ate it."

"She was so hungry?" suggested Lady Fulda, trying hard to remember the
story.

"No, so humble," Angelica answered; "at least so they say in the book; but
we don't think it could have been humility; it must have been horrid bad
taste; but we're going to ask the bishop. He's so temperate, you know. We
tried to discuss the matter with Father Ricardo, but he shut us up
promptly."

"My dear child!" Lady Fulda exclaimed, "what an expression!"

"I assure you it is the right one, Aunt Fulda," Angelica maintained. "He
got quite red in the face."

"Yes," said Diavolo, gazing at Father Ricardo thoughtfully. "He looked hot
enough to set fire to us if he'd touched us."

"I should think he would have been invaluable in the Inquisition," said
Angelica, to whom that last remark of Diavolo's had opened up a boundless
field of speculation and retrospect. "Wouldn't you like to hear a heretic
go off pop on a pile?" she inquired, turning to Father Ricardo.

The duke and Lady Fulda glanced at him involuntarily, and very
good-naturedly tried to smile. This, however, did not necessitate such an
effort as the mere cold reading of the twins' remark might make it appear,
for they both had a certain charm of manner, expressive of an utter
absence of any intention to offend, which no kindly disposed person could
resist; and Father Ricardo was essentially kindly disposed.

The twins were taking their leave by this time. Angelica proceeded to
deposit one of her erratic kisses somewhere on the old duke's head, with
an emphasis which caused him to wince perceptibly. Then she went up to
Father Ricardo, and shook hands with him.

"I hope the next time we come you will be able to tell us some nice bogey
stories about death and the judgment, and hell, and that kind of thing,"
she said politely. "They interest us very much. You remember, you told us
some before?"

"It must be very jolly for grandpapa to have you here always, ready to
make his blood run cold whenever he feels dull," Diavolo observed, looking
up at the priest admiringly. "You do it so well, you know, just as if you
believed it all."

"We tried it once with some children we had to spend the day with us at
Hamilton House," Angelica said. "We took them into a dark room--the long
room, you know, Aunt Fulda; and Diavolo rubbed a match on the wall at the
far end, and I explained that that was a glimmer of hell-fire at a great
distance off; and then we told them if they didn't keep quite still the
old devil himself would come creeping up behind without any noise, and
jump on their backs."

"And the little beggars howled," Diavolo added, as if that consequence
still filled him with astonishment.

"My dear children, I am afraid you tell dreadful stories," Lady Fulda
exclaimed in a horrified tone.

"Yes," said Angelica, with her grave little nod; "and we're improving; but
we cannot come up to Father Ricardo yet in that line."

"Not by a long chalk," said Diavolo.

"But, my _dear_ child," Lady Fulda solemnly asserted, "Father Ricardo
tells you _nothing_ but what is _absolutely_ true."

"How do you know?" Angelica asked.

"Oh--oh!" Lady Fulda stammered, and then looked at the priest appealingly.

"When you are older, and able to understand these things," Father Ricardo
began with gentle earnestness, "perhaps you will allow me--"

"But how do you _know_ it's true yourself?" Angelica demanded.

  "Did you ever _see_ the devil,
  With his little spade and shovel,
  Digging praties in the garden
  With his tail cocked up?"--

Diavolo chanted, accompanying the words with a little dance, in which
Angelica, holding up her habit, joined incontinently.

Lady Fulda remained grave, but the old duke and Father Ricardo himself
were moved to mirth, and there was no more talk of Revealed Religion, the
Power of the Popedom, and the glory of the Church on earth, at Morne that
day.

Lady Fulda had been firm about sending the children home under escort, and
they found a steady old groom waiting ready to mount a spirited horse when
they went down to the courtyard to get on their ponies. They had
discovered a box of croquet mallets on their way downstairs, and borrowed
one each.

As they descended the steep hill leading from the castle, at a walk, they
began to discuss recent events, as their habit was.

"What did you do when the chime went, and you hung your head?" said
Angelica.

"I hoped there'd be hot cakes for tea; bat I didn't mean it for a prayer,"
Diavolo answered, as if the matter admitted of a doubt.

"I'm glad we decided to go secondly to the palace; I didn't think much of
grandpapa's tea," Angelica observed. "It was all china, and no cakes--to
speak of; no crisp ones, you know."

"Well, you see his teeth are bad," said Diavolo indulgently.

"He has enough of them, then!" Angelica answered.

"Yes, but they aren't much good, they're so loose, you know; every now and
again you can see them waggle," said Diavolo.

"I'd like to see him bite a fig!" said Angelica, chuckling.

"They'd stick, I suppose," said Diavolo meditatively. "I expect there will
be great improvements in those matters by the time we want to be patched."

The groom, who had been riding at a respectful distance behind, suddenly
perceived that he had lost sight of the children altogether. The descent
was steep just there, and winding; and, knowing with whom he had to deal,
the man urged his horse on, straining his eyes at every turn to catch a
glimpse of the twins, but vainly, till he reached the bottom of the hill,
when they bounced out on him suddenly from among the trees on either side
of the road, whooping and flourishing their mallets wildly. The horse,
which was very fresh, gave one great bound and bolted, and the Heavenly
Twins, shrieking with delight, hunted him hard into Morningquest.

"Oh, I dare say," said Gretchen, doubtfully. "There is also candied lemon-peel."
Johannes whistled. "Ach, we can't run to that," he said.
"No, indeed," assented Gretchen; "but we must have suet and yeast." "I
don't see the necessity," quoth Johannes.

"A good cook like you"--here he gave her a sounding kiss--"can
get along without such trifles as those." "Well, I will try," said the
good Gretchen, as cheerfully as she could; and so next morning
Johannes went to work light-hearted and gay.

When he returned home, lo!

the long-desired dainty stood on the supper-table, beautifully brown.
He ran to embrace his wife in gratitude and joy; then he tremblingly broke
off a hunch of pudding and took a huge bite. His wife, anxiously watching
his face, saw it assume a look of perplexity, followed by one of
disgust.

Johannes gave a great snort of contempt.
"_Lieber Gott!_" he cried, "and _this_ is what Peterkin is always
bragging about!"

XIII
THE ABOLITION OF MONEY

The Cynic was very old and very wise and very unpopular.

I was the only person at his "At Home" that afternoon. I gave him my views
on Bi-metallism, having just read the leader in the "Times." He yawned
obtrusively, and growled, "Bi-metallism, indeed!

The only remedy for modern civilisation is A-metallism. Money must be
abolished.

The root of all evil must be pulled up."
"Money abolished!" I echoed in amaze. "Why, any student of political economy
will tell you we could not live without it. Lacking a common measure
of value, we----"
"So it has always been held by students when answering political-economy
papers," he interrupted impatiently. "Yet I dreamt once of a land where
the currency was called in, and the morning stars sang together."
"But the exchange of commodities----" I began.

"Was effected by the sublime simplicity of barter. At one sweep were
swept away all that monstrous credit system which had created an
army of accountants and a Court of bankruptcy; all that chaos of
single and double-faced entry--all that sleight-of-hand abracadabra
of signatures--all those paper phantoms of capital.

The Stock Exchange and other gambling-hells shrivelled up. There was a
vast saving of clerical labour, and there were few loopholes for fraud.
Everything was too simple. Swift retribution overtook the man who
shirked his obligations to his fellows.

Nobody could juggle with bits of paper at the North Pole and ruin people
at the South. The windows of human Society were cleared of the gigantic
complex cobweb full of dead flies. One could look inside and see what was
going on. 'Gentlemen' could not flourish in the light.

They were like the fungi that grew in cellars. Every man became both a
worker and a trader."
"Not an unmixed gain, that," I protested.

"I grant you," said the Cynic. "Some of the finer shades of fine
gentlemanliness were lost: the honourable feeling of cheating one's
tradesmen, the noble scorn of tailors, the lofty despisal of duns. When
all men were tradesmen, these higher class distinctions fused into one
another.

There arose a clannish feeling which prevented the tradesman from defrauding
one of his own class.

But there was an even graver evil to be placed to the debit side of the new
system.

For the professors of political economy (who had thrown up their posts
as a conscientious protest against the abolition of money and of
salaries) proved to be right.

So clumsy was the mechanism of exchange that men were actually
driven to doing more than one kind of work.

All those advantages of specialisation which Adam Smith, supplemented by
Babbage, had so laboriously pointed out were completely lost to a wasteful
world.

Rather than be without certain luxuries and necessaries men gave up
moving their legs all day up and down in time with iron treadles, or
feeding machines with bits of material exactly alike, or remaining
doubled up underground, or making marks from hour to hour and from
year to year on pieces of ruled paper.

The waste by friction became enormous. Some of the least thrifty even
made their own furniture, and wove their own clothes, and carved
out rude ornaments for themselves.

Whether from a natural want of economy, or from an unwillingness
to encounter the difficulties of traffic, or from a mere spirit of
independence, these men deliberately reverted to the condition from
which mankind had so painfully emerged.

"Some even pretended to enjoy it, and, rather paradoxically, asserted
that the abolition of gold had brought about the golden age of
primitive legend.

Others who felt keenly the falling-off in production, and the absence of
those huge stores of unsold commodities which glutted the ancient
markets, and gave a nation a sense of wealth in the midst of poverty;
the aesthetic spirits who lamented the disappearance of the ancient
mansions and palaces, which, although they were empty three parts
of the year, yet afforded men the consolation of knowing that they
were ample enough to shelter the majority of the homeless--men of
this stamp were chagrined by the cumbersome mechanism of exchange,
which made these glories of the past impracticable, and they were
for introducing counters.

But counters, although they had the advantage of lacking intrinsic
value, would be quite as bad as actual coins if men could entirely
trust one another never to repudiate their obligations.

Unfortunately Society had grown so honest under the new _régime_ that this
condition was fulfilled, and the operation of counters would have been
identical with that of money. Moreover, counters would have brought back
card-playing, horse-racing, fire and life assurance, and other forms of
gambling, which without them involved such complex calculations
and valuations of loaves and fishes that all the pleasure was spoilt.

When these things were pointed out to the aesthetic and the economical,
they were convinced and remained of the same opinion.

"But even with all these deficits, the balance in favour of the _status
quo_ was eminently satisfactory.

It was rediscovered that man really wanted very little here below, and
that it was better for all to get it than for some to continue to
want it; and, taking into account also the general freedom from war,
newspapers, and other evils of a moneyed civilisation, it must be
conceded that the common people had very little to grumble at."

"But what of the uncommon people?" I interrupted at last. "They must have
been martyred."

"Certainly, for the good of the common people.

You see, everything was topsy-turvey.

Besides, they suffered only during the earlier stages of transition.
There was, for instance, the poet who went round among the workmen
to chaffer verses.

But there were few willing to barter solid goods for poetry. Here and
there an intelligent artisan in love purchased a serenade, and an occasional
lunatic (for Nature hath her aberrations under any system) became
the proprietor of an epic.

But the sons of toil drove few bargains or hard with the sons of the
Muses. The best poets fared worst, for the crowd sympathised not with
their temper, nor with their diction, and they were like to die
of starvation and so achieve speedy recognition.

But the minor poets, too, were in sore strait. The market was exceedingly
limited. Sellers were many and buyers few.

Rondeaux were hawked about from butcher to baker, at ten to the joint,
or three to the four-pound loaf, and triolets were going at a
hollow-toothful of brandy. A ballade-worth of butter would hardly cover a
luncheon biscuit, while a five-act blank-verse tragedy was given
away for a pound of tea, and that only when the characters were
incestuous and the caesuras irreproachable.

A famous female poet was reduced to pawning her best sonnet for a glass of
lemonade and a bun.

"Times were no less hard for the comic writer.

Hitherto he had only to outrage his mother-tongue, or to debase the moral
currency, to find the land ready to accord him of the fat thereof.

He used to sit in a room in Fleet street and make or steal jokes in return
for gold.

By the wonderful mechanism of the old Society other men and women,
in whatever part of the world he might stray, would rush to feed
and clothe and house him, and play and sing and dance to him, and
physic him, and drive him about in carriages, and tell him the news
and shave him, and press upon him aromatic mixtures to smoke, and
love him, and kowtow to him, and beg of him, and even laugh at his
jokes, all in return for making or stealing jokes in Fleet street.

Some of these men and women would detest jokes, or have a blindness to
their points; nevertheless, not one but would be eager to express
in the most practical form his or her sense of the services rendered
to Society by the joker.

But now that people saw with open eyes through the transparent mechanism
of exchange, they were extremely loth to part with their tangible
commodities in return for mere flashes of wit or vulgarity.

Previously they had only half realised that they were soberly and seriously
making coats, or working machines, or smelting iron, while these jesters
were merely cudgelling their brains or consulting back files.

The complexity of the thing had disguised the facts.

But now that they saw exactly what was going on, they became suddenly
callous to numerous vested interests, and their new-found desire to know
why they should give up the fruits of their labour pressed very
cruelly upon innocent individuals.

The comic writer found it no joke to live with 'I'd Rajah not's' going at
seventy-five to the cigarette, or mockeries of the mother-in-law
yielding but a ton of coals to the thousand.

Puns were barely vendible, and even comic pictures could only be sold at a
great sacrifice of decency.

"The heir was a type of sufferer. When he came around asking for champagne
and chicken, the working-man said, 'What are you offering us in
exchange?'

and he replied, 'My relationship to my father.'

But they would not buy.

"Antiquarians and scholars, too, found it a hard task to live. No one
needed the things they raked up from the dust-heap of the past. Critics
were in an exceptionally critical condition. No one cared to exchange
his productions with a man who in return had to offer only his opinion
of somebody else's! As this opinion was usually worthless even under the
old _régime_, people soon began to turn up their noses at it, and nobody
would give a rusk for the information that Turner was a better artist
than Nature, or that hanging was too good for Whistler. Remarks about the
Italian Renaissance were accounted paltry equivalents for green peas,
invidious comparisons among the Lake poets were not easily negotiable
for alpaca umbrellas, and the subtlest misreadings of Shakespeare
were considered trivial substitutes for small-clothes.

The artists were reduced to borrowing half-rolls from their models, partly
because people had gone back to Nature and liked their scenery free from
oil, and drank in the Spirit of Beauty without water, and partly because
it was so difficult to assess the value of a picture now that critics had
been starved out and speculation had died away. Allegorical painters
continued a much-misunderstood race, and the fusion of classes had reacted
fatally on the brisk trade in 'Portraits of a Gentleman.' People who, in
their celestial aspirations after the True, the Good, and the Beautiful,
had forgotten that they ate and drank and required food, warmth,
and shelter to hatch all these sublime things with Capital
Letters--people who had heretofore poured lofty scorn on those who
could not forget that a man was a being with a body--these were now
the most clamant demanders of the material.

Only by the withdrawal of physical necessaries and luxuries did they come
to realise how much they had depended on such, or to perceive the
impossibility of the Worship of Truth on an empty stomach.

Alas!
under this crude system of barter the most ardent expression of their
sentiments concerning the ideal and the _Kalokagathon_ would not keep
them in cigars. The professional paradoxist went about with holes in his
boots. Epigrams in hand, sickness at heart, and emptiness at
stomach, he crawled through the town in search of a buyer. He offered a
dozen of the choicest apothegms for a pair of hob-nailed boots,
conjuring the cobbler like the veriest 'commercial' to note the
superiority of the manufacture.
He pointed out that he travelled with the latest novelties in Impressionist
Ethics, perfect unfitness guaranteed. He even offered to make a reduction
if the cobbler would take a quantity. The worthy craftsman, stung by
the prospect of a cheap job lot of epigrams, was prevailed upon to look at
the goods. But when he read that 'Vice is the foundation of all virtue,'
that 'Self-sacrifice is the quintessence of selfishness,' and that 'The
Good of Evil outweighs the Evil of Good,' he felt that he could do much
better with his boots, even if he only employed them to kick the epigrammatist.
The poor wretch thought himself lucky when he succeeded in purchasing
two epigramsworth of tobacco and a paradoxworth of potatoes. To cap his
misfortunes, the nation suffered from a sudden invasion of immigrant
epigrammatists, so that cynicisms went a-begging at ten for a
sausage-roll. Nor was the dull but moral maxim at less discount than the
witty but improper epigram. Essays inculcating the most superior virtues
failed to counterbalance a day's charing, and the finest spiritualistic
soft soap would not wash clothes.
Even the washerwoman deemed her work more real and valuable than the manufacture
of moralities too fine for use, and the deliberate effusion of sentiments
too good to be true.

"In those days, too, a complete political platform, comprising a score
of first-class articles of faith, sold at a pair of second-hand
slop-trousers, and a speech of three hours and three hundred
parentheses could not fetch more than a pot of jam in the open
market.

The workhouses were crowded with politicians, critics, poets, novelists,
bishops, sporting tipsters, scholars, heirs, soldiers, dudes, painters,
journalists, peers, bookmakers, landlords, punsters, idealists, and other
incorrigible persons. Nothing was more curious and heartrending in
the history of this transition to a new stage than the rapidity with
which those who had been most exigent towards life bated their terms. Men
who, in their aspirations after the Good and the Beautiful and the True,
had unwittingly wasted an intolerable deal of the world's substance
in riotous idealising,--men who had so long breathed the atmosphere
of ottomans and rose-leaves that they were barely conscious of their
privileges,--now found themselves clamouring for bread wherewith
to stay the cravings of their inner selves, and accounted themselves
happy if they found a roof to shelter them.

The pathos of it was that they felt it all too intensely to see the
pathos of it, or to express it in poem, picture, or song.

"It was, of course, the current political economy to which was due this
immense depreciation in the exchange value of the higher kinds of
intellectual and artistic work. In the old Socialistic system which
had been swept away by the abolition of money, men had purchased literary
and musical commodities in common, each consumer paying his quota for his
share of an unconsumable and infinitely divisible whole. But now few
individuals cared or could afford to purchase whole works for their private
edification; and so it came to pass that men of talent suffered as much
as men of genius in the olden days. And when it began to be understood of
the people that the times were other, and that Art and Letters and
Apostleship would not pay, men turned in resignation to work with their
hands, and they made all kinds of useful things.

"And the bookmakers returned not to their pens, nor the pot-boiling painters
to their palettes, nor the apostles to their prophesying, being otherwise
engaged and not thereto driven by inward necessity.

"And the Society of Authors perished!

"But the great poets, and the prophets, and the workers in colour and
form, upon whom the spirit rested, these wrought on when their daily labour
for a livelihood was at an end, for joy of their art and for the religious
fire that was in them, giving freely of their best to their fellow-men,
and exempt for evermore from all taint of trade."
The Cynic paused, and I sat silent, deeply impressed by what he had said,
and striving to imprint every word of it upon my memory, so that I might
sell it to a magazine.

XIV

MODERN MYTH-MAKING
So far as I can gather from the publications of the Folklore Society,
the science of Folklore is in a promising condition.

The doctors seem to be agreed neither about the facts nor the methods nor
the conclusions, but otherwise their unanimity is wonderful. Originally the
science was made in Germany, where it still flourishes, like all
sciences that require infinite pains and inexhaustible dulness. All
that can be done with any fruitfulness is apparently the collection and
classification of stories, songs and superstitions. Hypotheses and
theories are mainly bricks without straw, and the only certain conclusion
that may be drawn from the prevalence of folk-tales all over the world
is that all men are liars.
This was the first contribution to the science, and the Psalmist may be
regarded as the founder of Folklore. Herder made an advance when he
collected the folk-songs of many nations; and Grimm as a collector was
truly scientific, but when he brought in his mythological explanations he
brought in mythology. Benfey's celebrated theory that European
folk-tales are Oriental in origin and comparatively recent in date seems
to be bearing up well.

But no one seems to study the mythopoetic instinct as it manifests
itself in modern life, in the daily refraction of fact through the medium
of imagination (a medium whose power of refraction is far greater than
that of water). Because we no longer create gods and goddesses, or people
the woods and brooks with fairies and nymphs, and the forest with
gnomes and the hills with hobgoblins--because we do not soften our
lives with an atmosphere of gracious supernaturalism, and fresco
our azure ceiling with angels--it is assumed that the mythopoetic
instinct is dead.

Far from it!

It is as lively as ever, and we may watch it at play in the building up of
legends, in the creation of mythical figures; in the shaping of the
Boulanger legend, the Napoleonic legend, the Beaconsfield legend with
its poetical machinery of the primrose, the Booth legend, the Blavatsky
legend; in the fathering of epigrams upon typical wits like Sheridan, or
the attribution of all jokes to "Punch"; in the creation of
non-existent bodies like the Æsthetes, and in the private circulation of
scandals about public personages; in the perpetual revival of the
Blood Accusation against the Jews, or the pathetic clinging to
the miracles of exposed Spiritualists and Theosophists; in the Gladstone
of Tory imaginations and the Balfour of Radical; in the Irish patriot of
oratory; in the big-footed Englishwoman of French fancy, and the English
conception of the Scotchman who cannot see a joke; in the persistence
of traditional beliefs or prejudices that would be destroyed by one
inspection.

Apotheosis is still with us, and diabolification (if I may coin a
word).
We canonise as prodigally as in the mediaeval ages, and are as keen as
ever about relics. We are still looking out for dead King Arthur: he will
return by way of the County Council. _Plus ça change plus c'est la
méme[*] chose_--probably the profoundest observation ever made by a
Frenchman. Our mythopoetic instinct is as active as of yore, only the
mode of its expression is changed. It works on modern lines, has taken to
prose instead of poetry, and only occasionally unfurls wings. Why does not
the Folklore Society investigate the origin of our modern myths? Why
not seize on the instinct as it is seen at play in our midst,
moulding movements and fashioning faiths?

Why not catch it in the act--employ vivisection, so to speak, instead of
dissecting dead remains? Why not try to extract from the living present
the laws of the creation and development of myths and the conditions of
their persistence, so that by applying these laws retrospectively we may
come to understand our heritage of tradition? Ah! but this would require
insight into life, which your scientist has no mind for.
Her head and
shoulders were pillowed upon the high bank which flanked the path, her
face was raised as if her last look had been up at the sky above her, her
hands had slipped helplessly on to the ground on either side of her,
releasing the child, which had rolled over on to its face and so continued
inertly.

Edith caught only a passing glimpse of the group, and she made no remark
until they had driven on some distance; but then she asked: "Did you
notice that poor girl, mother?"

"No," Mrs. Beale answered. "Where was she?"

"Lying on the ground. She had a baby on her lap. I think she was ill."

They were in an open carriage, and Mrs. Beale looked round over the back
of it. It was a straight road, but she could only see something lying on
the footpath, which looked like a bundle at that distance.

"Are you sure it was a girl?" she said.

"Yes, quite, mother," Edith answered.

"Stop the carriage, then," said Mrs. Beale; "and we will turn back and see
what we can do."

They found the girl in the same attitude. Edith was about to alight, but
her mother stopped her.

"Let Edwards" (the footman, who was an old servant), "see what is the
matter," she said.

Edith instantly sat down again, and the footman went and stood by the
girl, looking down at her curiously. Then he stooped, took off his glove,
and put the points of the four fingers of his right hand on her chest,
like an amateur doctor afraid of soiling his hands, a perfunctory way of
ascertaining if she still breathed.

"I know who it is, ma'am," he said, returning to the carriage. "She's
French, and was a dressmaker in Morning-quest. There were two of them,
sisters, doing a very good business, but they got to know some of the
gentry--"

Mrs. Beale stopped him. She would not have heard the story for the world.

"She's not dead, is she?" Edith asked in a horrified tone.

The man looked at the girl again from where he stood; "No, miss," he
answered, "I think not. She's dead beat after a long tramp. The soles are
wore off her shoes. Or likely she's fainted. It's a pity of her," he added
for the relief of his own feelings, looking at her again compassionately.

"Oh, mother! can't we do something?" Edith exclaimed.

"But what _can_ we do?" Mrs. Beale responded helplessly, looking at
Edwards for a suggestion.

"We're not very far from the workus," he said, looking down the road they
had just retraversed. "We might call there as we pass, and leave a message
for them to send and take her in."

"Let us go at once," said Mrs. Beale in a tone of relief.

Edith, whose face was pale, looked pityingly once more at the girl and her
little child as they drove off. It had not occurred to either of the two
ladies, gentle, tender, and good as they were, to take the poor dusty
disgraced tramp into their carriage, and restore her to "life and use and
name and fame" as they might have done.

The incident, however, had naturally made a painful impression upon them
both; and when they returned to the palace they ordered tea in the drawing
room immediately, feeling that they must have something, and went there
with their things still on to wait for it. Neither of them could get the
tramp and her baby out of their heads, but they had not mentioned her
since they came in, until Mrs. Beale broke a long silence by exclaiming:
"We will drive that way again to-morrow, and find out how they are."

Edith needed no explanation as to whom she was alluding. "They would take
her in at once, of course, mother? They could not put it off?" she said.

"Oh, no! not when we asked them," her mother answered.

The tea was brought at this moment, and immediately afterward the footman
announced from the door; "Sir Mosley Menteith," and a tall, fair-haired
man about thirty, with a small, fine, light-coloured moustache, the ends
of which were waxed and turned up toward the corners of his eyes, entered
and shook hands with Mrs. Beale, looking into her face intently as he did
so, as if he particularly wanted to see what she was like; then he turned
to Edith, shook hands, and looked at her intently also, and taking a seat
near her he continued to scrutinize her in away that brought the blood to
her cheeks, and caused her to drop her eyes every time she looked at him.
But they were old acquaintances, and she was not displeased.

He was a good-looking young man, although he had a face which some people
called empty because of the singular immobility of every feature except
his eyes; but whether the set expression was worn as a mask, or whether he
really had nothing in him, was a question which could only be decided on
intimate acquaintance; for although some effect of personality continually
suggested the presence in him of thoughts and feelings disguised or
concealed by an affectation of impassivity, nothing he did or said at an
ordinary interview ever either quite confirmed or destroyed the
impression.

"I thought you had gone abroad with your regiment," said Mrs. Beale, who
had received him cordially.

"No, not yet," he answered, looking away from Edith for a minute in order
to scrutinize her mother.

He always seemed to be inspecting the person he addressed, and never spoke
of anyone without describing their charms or blemishes categorically.
"Fact is, I've just come to say good-bye. I've been abroad on leave for
two months. Took mine at the beginning of the season."

He looked intently at Edith again when he had said this.

"Mrs. Orton Beg," the servant announced.

Mrs. Orton Beg's ankle was strong enough now for her to walk from her
little house in the Close to the palace, but she had to use a stick. She
was bleached by being so much indoors, and looked very fragile in the
costly simplicity of her black draperies as she entered.

Mrs. Beale and Edith received her affectionately, and Sir Mosley rose and
transferred his scrutinizing gaze to her while they were so occupied. He
inspected her dark glossy hair; eyes, nose, mouth, and figure, down to her
feet; then looked into her eyes again, and bowed on being presented by
Mrs. Beale.

"Sir Mosley is in the Colquhoun Highlanders," the latter explained to Mrs.
Orton Beg. "He is just going out to Malta to join them."

Mrs. Orton Beg looked up at him with interest from the low chair into
which she had subsided: "Then you know my niece, I suppose," she
said--"Mrs. Colquhoun?"

"I have not yet the pleasure," he answered, smiling so that he showed his
teeth. They were somewhat discoloured by tobacco, but the smile was a
pleasant one, to which people instantly responded. He went to the tea
table when he had spoken, and stood there waiting to hand Mrs. Orton Beg a
cup of tea which Mrs. Beale was pouring out for her. "But I have seen Mrs.
Colquhoun," he added. "I was at the wedding--she looked remarkably well."
He fixed his eyes on vacancy here, and turned his attention inward in
order to contemplate a vision of Evadne in her wedding dress. His first
question about a strange woman was always; "Is she good-looking?" and his
first thought when one whom he knew happened to be mentioned was always as
to whether she was attractive in appearance or not. He was one of several
of Colonel Colquhoun's brother officers who had graced the wedding. There
was not much variety amongst them. They were all excessively clean and
neat in appearance, their manners in society were unexceptionable, the
morals of most of them not worth describing because there was so little of
them; and their comments to each other on the occasion neither original
nor refined; generations of them had made the same remarks under similar
circumstances.

The bishop came in during the little diversion caused by handing tea and
cake to Mrs. Orton Beg.

"Ah, how do you do?" he said, shaking hands with the latter. "How is the
foot? Better? That's right. Oh! is that you, Mosley? I beg your pardon, my
dear boy"--here they shook hands--"I did not see you at first. Very glad
you've come, I'm sure. How is your mother? Not with your regiment, eh?" He
peered at Sir Mosley through a pair of very thick glasses he wore, and
seemed to read an answer to each question as he put it, written on the
latter's face.

"Will you have some tea, dear?" said Mrs. Beale.

"Eh, what did you say, my dear? Tea? Yes, if you please. That is what I
came for."

He turned to the tea table as he spoke, and stood over it rubbing his
hands, and beaming about him blandly.

Sir Mosley Menteith had been a good deal at the palace as a youngster. He
and Edith still called each other by their Christian names. The bishop had
seen him grow up from a boy, and knew all about him--so he would have
said--although he had not seen much of him and had heard absolutely
nothing for several years.

"So you are not with your regiment?" he repeated interrogatively.

"I am just on my way to join it now," the young man answered, looking up
at the bishop from the chair near Edith on which he was again sitting, and
giving the corners of his little light moustache a twirl on either side
when he had spoken. All his features, except his eyes, preserved an
imperturbable gravity; his lips moved, but without altering the expression
of his face. His eyes, however, inspected the bishop intelligently; and
always, when he spoke to him, they rested on some one point, his vest, his
gaiters, his apron, the top of his bald head, the end of his nose.

"Dr. Galbraith," the footman announced; and the doctor entered in his
easy, unaffected, but somewhat awkward way. He had his hat in his hand,
and there was a shade of weariness or depression on his strong pale face;
but his deep gray kindly eyes--the redeeming feature--were as
sympathetically penetrating as usual.

He shook hands with them all, except Sir Mosley, at whom he just glanced
sufficiently long to perceive that he was a stranger.

Mrs. Beale named them to each other, and they both bowed slightly, looking
at the ground, and then they exchanged glances.

"Not much like a medico if you are one," thought Menteith.

"Not difficult to take your measure," thought the doctor; after which he
turned at once to the tea-table, like one at home, and stood there waiting
for a cup. His manner was quite unassuming, but he was one of those men of
marked individuality who change the social atmosphere of a room when they
enter it. People became aware of the presence of strength almost before
they saw him or heard him speak. And he possessed that peculiar charm,
common to Lord Dawne and others of their set, which came of giving the
whole of their attention to the person with whom they were conversing for
the moment. His eyes never wandered, and if his interest flagged he did
not allow the fact to become apparent, so that he drew from everybody the
best that was in them, and people not ordinarily brilliant were often
surprised, on reflection, at the amount of information they had been
displaying, and the number of ideas which had come crowding into their
usually vacant minds while he talked with them.

He turned his attention to Mrs. Beale now. "I was afraid I should be late
for tea," he said. "I had to turn back--about something. I was delayed."

"We were late ourselves this afternoon," said Mrs. Beale.

Curiously enough the same cause had delayed them both, for Dr. Galbraith,
coming into Morningquest by the road Mrs. Beale had chosen for her drive
that day, had noticed the insensible girl and her baby lying on the
footpath, and had got down, lifted them into his carriage, and driven back
some miles with them in order to leave them at the house of one of his
tenants, a respectable widow whom he had trained as a nurse, and to whose
kind care he now confided them with strict orders for their comfort, and
the wherewithal to carry the orders out.

Neglect may be the nurse of strength, but as often it is the handmaid
of idleness.

The artist without an audience will smoke the enchanted cigarettes of Balzac.
The rough labour of execution is largely the labour of conveying to others
what the artist already feels and sees.

Why should he toil thanklessly? It is sweeter to dream.
Even the money that art produces may be a valuable incentive. Not, of
course, if the artist aims at the money; but art wrought for love may bring
in money, like a woman married for love. In so far as the lover
has his eye on the dowry, in so far his love is vitiated; and in so
far as the artist has his eye on the profits, in so far is he untrue to a
mistress who demands undivided allegiance. Natheless, the _auri sacra
fames_ may be his salvation. What subtle sympathy connects _fama_ with
_fames_?

The butcher's bill may drive him from the dreamland of luxurious
meditation to the practical embodiment of his dreams.

Only, while he is at work, the laws of art alone must be his masters; he
must not alter or abate a jot by way of concession to the great cash
question. When he has completed his work, then indeed he may sell it in
the best market.

But the least preliminary paltering with the spirit of commerce is a
degradation. Does this seem an ideal demand? Let us remember, then,
ideals are goads and goals, counsels of perfection.

No one expects people to come quite up to them, but it is better for
human nature that they should be there. For there is something in
hero-worship, despite Carlyle's grandiosities, provided you choose your
hero wisely.

We do, in this valley of doubt and confusion, touched with false
sparkles, follow men who speak from their souls sincerely, who work from
their hearts.

Instinctively we feel it degrading and disillusionising that inspiration
shall be paid in hard cash, and genius entered on the credit side
of a ledger.

Does a man plead that he has to support his wife and children?
Well, in the first place, he need not have got them.

In the second, one may be admirable as a man, but as an artist
abominable.

Still it is better that a man should write Adelphi dramas than that
his starving family should qualify for scenes in them. All honour to the
artist who lives on bread and water in a garret rather than
prostitute his art!

but less honour to the man who lives on _my_ bread, and adds somebody else's
whisky to his water, rather than earn an honest living by dishonest
books and plays.

This was the question that split up the Bohemians of Murger.
While the majority did odd jobs for the Philistines, to have the time for
real art, the very poet consenting to write Alexandrines for a dentist
at fifteen sous a dozen--vastly cheaper than oysters--there was an
inner band of the faithful who preferred starvation to the desecration
of their genius for the unsaleable.

Even so among the vegetarians there is a holier circle that eats only
nuts and fruits. The sensible artist will compromise. There is in
political economy a region called "the margin of subsistence." It is a sort
of purgatory. Above it, we enter the heaven of superfluities; below it,
lies the dread Hades of hunger. It is here that the impecunious
artist--with a family (and, alas! the artist is nearly always impecunious--with
a family) should pitch his tent.

He may be allowed to prostitute himself, if need be, sufficiently to pay
the ground-rent.

He must not be driven lower down by his devotion to the Muses: an
artist who dies of starvation is simply a dead donkey.

Rather than play a false note, he stops his music for ever.

It is sublime--but silly. He had better black boots. There is no reason
on earth why a shoeblack should not read Schiller, or moralise
as he does in Bret Harte's parody of Bulwer Lytton.

A bachelor artist might do worse than get locked up for some simple
offence, and thus throw himself upon the nation.

Remember what Sir Walter Raleigh did in prison. The poet can rise superior
to the sordidness of skilly.

Only he must be careful to preserve his seclusion.

Leigh Hunt made his cell the artistic centre of London, but I doubt if
he got through much work; and more recently, when Jokaï
was in gaol, he was compelled to insist on two hours' privacy and
confinement per day. To be a "first-class misdemeanant" seems to me the
height of happiness for a literary man.

Unfortunately there are few honest opportunities for going to gaol. The most
honest way of all would be to write the truth about men and things; but
this editors will not print. So one has to live at one's own expense.
Nevertheless, the Hotel of the Black Maria remains an ideal.

IV
BOHEMIA AND VERLAINE
It is one of the pleasures of my life that I never saw Tennyson.
Hence I am still able to think of him as a poet, for even his
photograph is not disillusionising, and he dressed for the part
almost as well as Beerbohm Tree would have done.

Why one's idea of a poet is a fine frenzied being, I do not quite know.
One seems to pick it up in the very nursery, and even the London _gamin_
knows a poet when he doesn't see one. Probably it rests upon the ancient
tradition of oracles and sibyls, foaming at the mouth like champagne
bottles.

Inspiration meant originally demoniac possession, and to "modern
thought" prophecy and poetry are both epileptic.

"Genius is a degenerative psychosis of the epileptoid order." A large
experience of poets has convinced me as little of this as of the
old view summed up in _genus irritabile vatum_.

Poets seem to me the homeliest and most hardworking of mankind--'t
is a man in possession, not a _daimon_ nor a disease.

Of course they have their mad moods, but they don't write in them. Writing
demands serenity, steadiness, patience; and of all kinds of writing, poetry
demands the steadiest pen. Complex metres and curious rhyme-schemes
are not to be achieved without pain and patience.

Prose is a path, but poetry is a tight-rope, and to walk on it demands the
nicest dexterity.

You may scribble off prose in the fieriest frenzy--who so fiery and
frenzied as your journalist with the printer's devil at his elbow?--but
if you would aspire to Parnassus, you must go slow and steady. Fancy
inditing a sonnet with the compositors waiting for "copy"! Pegasus
were more truly figured as a drayhorse than a steed with wings; he jogs
along trot-trot, and occasionally he stands at an obstinate pause. The
splendid and passionate lyrics of Swinburne, with their structural involutions
and complicacies, must have been "a dem'd grind." The English language does
not easily lend itself to so much "linked sweetness long drawn out."
Even the manuscript of Pope's easy meandering verse is disfigured by
ceaseless corrections. As he himself says:

True ease in writing comes from art, not chance, As those move
easiest who have learn'd to dance.

Probably these very lines run in the original manuscript somewhat
as follows:

[Illustration: Handwriting sample]
Shelley is the ideal of a poet, a soul of white fire, fed by bread
and raisins; yet Shelley's last manuscripts are full of lacunae and
erasures, some of which have had to be reproduced perforce in the
printed editions.

Clothed with the ... as with light, And the shadows of the night, Like ...
next, Hypocrisy, On a crocodile rode by.

It reads like a puzzle set by a Competition Editor.

Here is another one, which begins as beautifully as Hedda Gabler could
desire, and ends in blankness.

Within the surface of the fleeting river The wrinkled image of the
city lay, Immovably unquiet, and for ever It trembles, but it never
fades away; Go to the [ ] You, being changed, will find it then as
now.

The fact is, of course, that inspiration is no guarantee of perfection.
The limitations of inspiration vary with the limitations of the
writer--a proposition that may be commended to the theologians.

Genius can no more safeguard a man against his own ignorance than
it can find a rhyme to "silver."

Inspiration could not save Keats from his Cockney rhymes nor Mrs.

Browning from her rhymeless rhymes. I met a poet in a London
suburb--it seemed odd to see one out of Fleet Street--but after a few
bewildered instants I recognised him.

There was on his brow the burden of a brooding sorrow. I sought delicately
to probe the cause of his grief, and he confessed at last that in a
much-praised poem just published he had made a monosyllable
dissyllabic.

He had never got over a youthful mispronunciation, and in an unguarded
moment of inspiration it had slipped in.

This prosaic view of poetry is distasteful to many, who like to
think that "Paradise Lost" came out in a jet.

But all these grandiose conceptions belong to the obscurantist view of human
life, which is popular with all who hate, in Matthew Arnold's phrase, "to
think clear and see straight." People fancy that the dignity of human life
demands that artists at least should be Ouidaesque, but the true dignity
of the artist is to be sublimely simple rather than simply sublime.

The finest art--be it literature, music, or painting--is, after all that
inspiration can do has been done, a matter of painful pegging away; and
the finest artists will be found quietly occupying themselves with their
art without pose or fuss. That side of the business is largely monopolised
by the little men.

But even the big men sometimes fall victims to the popular conception, as
when a Byron stagily takes the centre of the universe, and looms lurid like
the spirit of the Brocken.

We do not need biographical scandal-mongers to tell us what "the real Lord
Byron" was like. He was like "Don Juan," his own poem; shrewd, cynical,
worldly, with flashes of exquisite feeling. The poem which is cut
out of young ladies' editions of Byron is the one that represents
him most truly in his blend of sensualism and idealism, whereas the
Brocken figure is but Byron as he appeared to himself in his stormiest
and gloomiest moments, and even that phantasm artistically draped
and limelit by a poet's imagination.

If people realised how much Byron wrote in his pitiable span of thirty-six
years, how much hard labour went to make those cleverly-rhymed stanzas
of "Childe Harold" or "Don Juan," despite Swinburne's accusation of
botchery, they would see that he really had very little time to be wicked.
They would understand that art--even the most decadent--is based on
strenuous labour.

Young, gay, Radiant, adorned outside; a hidden ground Of thought and
of austerity within.

Even in poetically declaring himself a decadent, the artist must
take as many pains as fall to the prosiest bourgeois.

This is the paradox of the position. Just as the pyrrhonist in maintaining
that there is no truth asserts one, so the literary pessimist
partly contradicts his contention of the futility of existence by
his anxiety to express himself elegantly.

Leopardi's Italian and Schopenhauer's German are far superior to those of
the optimistic philosophers; and one of the most polished poems
of our day is poor Thomson's "City of Dreadful Night."

So, too, the poet who declares himself an idler and a vagabond gives the
lie to his pretensions by the labour he takes to clothe them in unimpeachable
verse. The other morning I looked out of my study window after breakfast
and discovered that the weather was heavenly. I had lingered over the
meal, reading the beautiful political speeches, from which I gathered
there was a Crisis at hand. I knew that Crisis. I had heard about it
ever since I learnt to hear. Nevertheless, the newspapers were still
devoting as much space to it as if it were brand-new, and beguiling me
to take interest in it. I felt quite annoyed when I looked at the blue
sky after breakfast and took deep breaths of ambrosial air, and thought
how I had wasted my time.
Thrilled by the sunshine, a cosmic rapture seized me, and I wondered that
men should fritter away their time in politics and other serious
occupations. The inspiration grew and grew, and I felt that my lips had
been touched by the sacred fire, and that I had been called to preach a
great moral lesson to mankind. So I took up my pen and wrote:

Bright the sun this lovely May-day; Youth and love should have their heyday;
Every day should be a play-day.

Yet mankind will work and worry, Over trifles fuss and flurry, Getting
hot as Indian curry.

Orators, in such a season, How unreasonable is reason!
'Gainst the sunshine't is a treason.

What care I for Gladstone's glories?
Hang the Radicals and Tories!
Give me hammocks, pipes and stories!

What's the use of all this wrangling, Grammar and emotions mangling?
Up the river let's go angling.

Sweet are walks and swimming nice is, Bring me lemon-squash and ices, Bother
that eternal Crisis!

I was called away to lunch in the middle of the attack of inspiration.
Inspiration is of course very useful, but it has a way of suggesting words
that won't rhyme, and luring you off into all sorts of false tracks.
Moreover, it affords no help whatever in polishing. After lunch I set to
work with renewed zeal, licking the lines into their present perfection.
At last they were finished, and as I lit the gas to enable me to see to
make a fair copy, I realised that the beautiful blue day was gone.

Yes, the busy bee is a fraud by the side of the irresponsible artistic
butterfly.

Sims Reeves tells an amusing anecdote of Mario the singer. Being brought
one Thursday night by an eminent composer to sing at a big fashionable
party, he found so great a line of carriages in front of his own
that it was past midnight ere he arrived at the door. The thought
that it was already Friday, and that he was about to sing in a new
house, whose hostess he did not even know, had already dismayed
the superstitious singer.

But when he saw the number on the door was 13, no power on earth and no
amount of argument could induce him to enter. "Ah, yes," said the hostess,
smiling pleasantly, when the composer explained, "a very ingenious
excuse, for which Mario ought to be grateful to you. Of course he was
intoxicated, and after a long argumentation you at last persuaded
him to go home."

Poe was doubtless occasionally drunk; but think of the years of
sober labour, of stooping over desks, that must have gone to make
those wonderful tales!

Which is the true Poe, the hard drinker or the hard worker?

That the artist must get drunk is, indeed, the belief of certain
schools of young men even to-day; but is it not based on the old
eternal false-logic, that because some artists have got drunk,
therefore to get drunk is to be artistic?

It was Murger who invented the Bohemian artist, poor and gay and of an
easy morality. "Musette and Mimi!" says Sarcey.
"The image of those ideal beings shone on every man who was twenty-one
about 1848. 'La Vie de Bohème' was youth's breviary--fifty years ago." The
great dramatic critic goes on to complain of the onslaught made upon him
because he wrote against this "idleness of disposition, this heedlessness
for the morrow, this inclination to look for the day's tobacco and
the quarter's rent from loans and debts rather than from honest
work, this witty contempt for current morality."

But this is scarcely the teaching of the ever delightful book, which catches
the spirit of youth and gaiety and irresponsibility wedded to artistic
ardour as no other book has done before or since, and for which one might
put in the plea that Charles Lamb made for the dramatists of the
Restoration.

Its world is only a pleasing fiction, and the ordinary rules of
morality do not carry over into it.

It is the East of Suez of literature, "where there ain't no Ten Commandments,
and a man may raise a thirst."

He considered
their bargain a thing to be carried out to the letter so long as she held
him to it, like a debt of honour, not legally binding but morally, and he
was prepared, with gentlemanly tack, to keep faith without further
discussion of the subject. The arrangement did not trouble him at all. It
was original, and therefore somewhat piquant, and so was Evadne.

They met therefore without more than a momentary embarrassment, and his
first glimpse of her fresh young face, flushed with excitement, and full
of intelligent interest and of unaffected pleasure in everything, was an
unexpected revelation of yet another facet of her manifold nature, and a
bright one too. What a pity she had "views"! But there was always a hope
the determination to live up to them was merely an infantile disease of
which society would soon cure her. Society has views too. It believes all
it hears in the churches without feeling at all bound to practise any
inconvenient precept implied in the faith.

Colonel Colquhoun had gone out on a government steam launch to meet the
mail as soon as she was signalled, and finding Evadne on deck had remained
there with her watching the wonderful panorama of the place gradually
unfolding itself. He showed her the various points of interest as they
came along, and she smiled silent acknowledgments of the courtesy.

The sun was just dispelling the diaphanous mists of early morning, making
them hang luminous a moment and then disperse, like tinted gauze that
flutters slowly upward in a breeze and vanishes. Great white clouds,
foam-like and crisp, piled themselves up fantastically and floated off
also, leaving the deep blue vault to mirror itself in the answering azure
of the sea; the eternal calm above, awful in its intensity of stillness;
the ceaseless movement below, a type of life, throbbing, murmurous,
changeful, more interesting than awe-inspiring, more to be wondered at
than revered.

Colonel Colquhoun pointed out the lighthouses of St. Elmo, patron saint of
sailors, on the right, and Ricasoli on the left. Then they were met by a
rainbow fleet of dghaisas, gorgeous in colour, and propelled by oarsmen
who stood to their work, and were also brightly clad--both boats and
boatmen, clothed by the sun, as it were, having blossomed into colour
unconsciously as the flowers do in genial atmospheres. The boats, carrying
fruits, flowers, tobacco, cheap jewellery, and coarse clothing for
sailors, each cargo adding something of picturesqueness to the scene,
formed a gay flotilla about the steamer and accompanied her, she towering
majestically above them, and appearing to attract them and hold them to
her sides as a great cork in the water does a handful of chopped straw.
The boatman held up their wares, chattering and gesticulating, their
sun-embrowned faces all animation and changeful as children's. One moment
they would be smiling up and speaking in wheedling tones to the
passengers, and the next they would be frowning round at each other, and
resenting some offence with torrents of abuse. So the mail glided into the
Grand Harbour, Evadne wondering at the fortifications, and straining her
eyes to make out somewhat of the symbols, alternate eye and ear, carved on
the old watch tower of St. Angelo; noticing, too, the sharp outline of
everything in the pellucid atmosphere, and feeling herself suddenly aglow
with warmth and colour, a part of the marvellous beauty and brightness,
and uplifted in spirit out of the everyday world above all thought and
care into regions of the purest pleasure.

"What a lovely place!" she exclaimed. "It looks like a great irregular
enchanted palace!"

"It's very jolly," said Colonel Colquhoun, smiling upon the scene
complacently, and looking as important as if he were himself responsible
for the whole arrangement, but was too magnanimous to mention the fact. "I
thought you'd like it. But wait till you see it by moonlight! We'll come
off and dine with one of the naval fellows some night. I'm sure you'll be
delighted. It's just like a photograph."

Evadne found that Colonel Colquhoun had secured a good house for her, and
had bestowed much care upon the arrangement of it. It was the kind of
occupation in which he delighted, and he did it well. He showed Evadne
over the house himself as soon as she arrived, and what struck her as most
delightful were the flowers and foliage plants which decorated every
available corner, and nearly all growing; oranges and oleanders in great
tubs, and palms and ferns in oriental china stands and in Majolica vases.

"One only sees it so for a ball at home," she said; "or some other special
occasion."

He looked at her keenly a moment. Her face was serenely content.

"Well, this is a kind of a special occasion with me," he said rather
gloomily.

He went on as he spoke, Evadne following him from room to room, pleased
with everything, and looking it; which is a much more convincing token of
appreciation than the best chosen words.

But when they came to the rooms which were to be hers, she was quite
overcome. For Colonel Colquhoun had chosen two opening into each other, as
nearly as possible like those she had occupied at Fraylingay, and had
filled them with all the beloved possessions, books, pictures, and
ornaments, which she had left behind her.

"How good you are! How very good you are!" she exclaimed impulsively. "I
hope we shall be friends."

"Oh, we shall be friends," he answered with affected carelessness, but
really well pleased. "I thought you would settle better if you had your
own pet things to begin with. I had a great fight with your father about
the books. He said you'd got all your nonsense out of them, but I
suggested that it might be a case of a little learning being a dangerous
thing, so I captured all the old ones, and I've got a lot more for you;
see, here's Zola and Daudet complete, and George Sand, You'll like them
better, I fancy, when you get into them than Herbert Spencer and Francis
Galton, But I've got you some more of their books as well--all that you
hadn't got,"

"You are really _too_ good," said Evadne.

Getting her the books was like putting butter on the paws of a strange cat
to make it settle. She sat down beside them and began to take off her
gloves at once. Colonel Colquhoun smiled beneath his blond moustache,
then, pleading regimental duty, left her to her treasures, assuring
himself as he went that he really did know women, exceptional or
otherwise.

He had arranged the books himself, placing Zola and Daudet in prominent
positions, and anticipating much entertainment from the observation of
their effect upon her. He expected that she would end by making love to
him; in which case he promised himself the pleasure of paying her off by
acting for a time after the manner proposed by the Barber's Fifth Brother.

When they met again, Evadne had read her mother's letter, and she at once
took him into her confidence about it.

"What would you do if you were me?" she asked.

"I should write to the papers," he answered gravely, as if he meant it.

He did not at all understand the strong, simple, earnest nature, incapable
of flippancy, with which he had to deal, nor appreciate the danger of
playing with it; and he never dreamt that she would seriously consider the
suggestion.

"I cannot understand why my father should continue to feel vexed about
this arrangement of ours," she said seriously. "We do not interfere with
his domestic affairs, why should he meddle with ours? It is not at all his
business; do you think it is?" This taking it for granted that the
arrangement was as satisfactory to him as it was to her, and appealing to
him in good faith against himself and his own interests as it were,
touched Colonel Colquhoun's sense of the ludicrous pleasurably. It was
always the unexpected apparently that was likely to happen with Evadne,
and he appreciated the charm of the unexpected, and began to believe he
should find more entertainment at home than he had thought possible even
at the outset of his matrimonial venture, when all appeared most
promising. He got on very well with her father, but, nevertheless, when it
had at last dawned upon him that she was taking his suggestion about
writing to the papers seriously, it jumped with his peculiar sense of
humour--which had never developed beyond the stage into which it had
blossomed in his subaltern days--to egg her on "to draw" the testy old
gentleman by threats of publicity. It was his masculine mind, therefore,
that was really responsible for her "unnatural" action in that matter. In
bygone days when there was any mischief afoot the principle used to be,
_chercher la femme_, and when she was found the investigation stopped
there; but modern methods of inquiry are unsatisfied with this imperfect
search, and insist upon looking behind the woman, when lo, invariably,
there appears a skulking creature of the opposite sex who is not ashamed
to be concealed by the petticoats generously spread out to screen him.
While the world approves man struts and crows, taking all the credit; but,
when there is blame about, he whines, street-arab fashion: "It wasn't me.
_Cherchez la femme_."


CHAPTER II.


Mrs. Beale and Edith arrived in Malta almost immediately after Evadne
herself, and it so happened that the latter, when she went with Colonel
Colquhoun to call upon them, met for the first time in their drawing room
most of the people to whom she was to become really attached during her
sojourn in Malta. There were Mrs. Sillenger, wife of the colonel of one of
the other regiments stationed on the island; Mrs. Malcomson, also the wife
of a military man; the Rev. Basil St. John, a man of good family,
pronounced refinement, and ultra-ritualistic practices; and Mr. Austin B.
Price, a distinguished American diplomatist and man of letters, to whom
she became specially attached. Mrs. Beale and Edith also were from that
time forward two of her dearest and most valued friends. She looked very
charming on the occasion of that first visit.

Mrs. Beale received her with quite effusive kindliness. She had promised
Mrs. Orton Beg to be a mother to her, and had been building a little
aerial castle wherein she saw herself installed as principal adviser,
comforter, confidential friend, and invaluable help generally under
certain circumstances of peculiar trial and happy interest to which young
wives are subject.

Evadne and Edith looked at each other with a kind of pleased surprise.

"How tall you have grown!" said Evadne.

"And how young you are to be married!" Edith rejoined. "I was so glad when
Mrs. Orton Beg told us you were here. That was one of the reasons which
decided us to come, I think."

"I hope we shall see a good deal of each other," said Evadne.

"That would be delightful," Edith answered. Then suddenly she blushed. She
had recognized someone who had just entered the room, and Evadne,
narrowing her eyes to see who it was, recognized him as Sir Mosley
Menteith, a captain in the Colquhoun Highlanders, whose acquaintance she
had made the day before, when he called upon her for the first time. He
shook hands with Mrs. Beale and stood talking to her, looking down at her
intently, until someone else claimed her attention. Then he turned away,
rested the back of his left hand, in which he was holding his hat, on his
haunch, fixed an eyeglass in his eye, and looked round with an expression
of great gravity, twirling first one end and then the other of his little
light moustache slowly as he did so. He was extremely spic-and-span in
appearance, and wore light-coloured kid gloves. The room was pretty full
by that time, and he seemed to have some little difficulty in finding the
person whom he sought, but at last he made out Edith and Evadne sitting
together, and going over to them, greeted them both, and then took a
vacant chair beside them. He began by inspecting first one and then the
other carefully in turn, as if he were comparing them point by point,
uttering little remarks the while of so thin and weak a nature that Evadne
had to make quite an effort to grasp them. She had thawed under the
influence of Edith's warm frank cordiality, but now she froze again
suddenly, and began to have disagreeable thoughts. She noticed something
repellent about the expression of Sir Mosley's mouth. She acknowleged that
his nose was good, but his eyes were small, peery, and too close together,
and his head shelved backward like an ape's. She could not have kept up a
conversation with him had she wished to, but she preferred to withdraw
herself and let him monopolize Edith.

"I like you best in blue," Sir Mosley was saying. "Will you wear blue at
our dance?"

"Oh, no!" Edith rejoined archly, smiling up at him with lips and eyes. "I
have worn nothing but blue lately. I shall soon be known as the blue girl!
I must have a change, Gray and pink are evidently _your_ colours,
Evadne!"

Evadne looked down at her draperies as a polite intimation that she had
heard. But just then her attention was diverted by the conversation of two
ladies and a gentleman, who were, sitting together in a window on her
right. The gentleman was Mr. St. John, the ritualistic divine, whose
clean-shaven face, with its firm, well-disciplined mouth, finely formed
nose with sensitive nostrils, and deep-set kindly dark eyes, attracted her
at once. He was very fragile in appearance, and had a troublesome cough.

"Ah, Mrs. Malcomson!" he was saying, "I should be very sorry to see the
old exquisite ideal of womanhood disturbed by these new notions. What can
be more admirable, more elevating to contemplate, more powerful as an
example, than her beautiful submission to the hardships of her lot?"

"Or less effectual--seeing that no good, but rather the contrary has come
of it all!" Mrs. Malcomson answered. "That is the poetry of the pulpit;
and the logic too, I may add," she said, leaning back in her chair
luxuriously. "For what could be less effectual for good than the influence
has been of those women, poor wingless creatures of the 'Sphere', whose
ideal of duty rises no higher than silent abject submission to all the
worst vices we know to be inseparable from the unchecked habitual
possession of despotic authority? What do you say, Mrs. Sillenger?"

The other lady smiled agreement. She was older than Mrs. Malcomson, and
otherwise presented a contrast to the latter, being taller, slighter, with
a prettier, sweeter, and altogether more womanly face, as some people
said. A stranger might have thought that she had less character too, but
that was not the case. She suffered neither from weakness nor want of
decision; but her manner was more diffident, and she said less.

Mrs. Malcomson belonged to a somewhat different order of being. She had a
strong and handsome face with regular features; a proud mouth, slightly
sarcastic in expression; and dark gray eyes given to glow with fiery
enthusiasm. Her hair was dark brown, but showed those shades of red in
certain lights which betoken an energetic temperament, and good staying
power. It was crisp, and broke into little natural curls on her forehead
and neck, or wherever it could escape from bondage; but she had not much
of it, and it was usually rather picturesque than tidy. Mrs. Sillenger's,
on the contrary, was straight and luxuriant, and always neat. It had been
light golden-brown in her youth, but was somewhat faded. Mrs. Malcomson
spoke as well as she looked, the resonant tones of her rich contralto
voice pleasing the ear more than her opinions startled the understanding.
She owed half her success in life to the careful management of her voice.
By simple modulations of it she could always differ from an opponent
without giving personal offence, and she seldom provoked bitter opposition
because nothing she said ever sounded aggressive. If she had not been a
good woman she would have been a dangerous one, since she could please eye
and ear at will, a knack which obtains more concessions from the average
man than the best chosen arguments,

"It seems to me that your 'poetry of the pulpit' is very mischievous," she
pursued. "You have pleased our senses with it for ages. You have flattered
us into in action by it, and used it as a means to stimulate our vanity
and indolence by extolling a helpless condition under the pompous title of
'beautiful patient submission.' You have administered soothing sedatives
of 'spiritual consolation,' as you call it, under the baleful influence of
which we have existed with all our highest faculties dulled and drugged.
You have curtailed our grand power to resist evil by narrowing us down to
what you call the 'Woman's Sphere,' wherein you insist that we shall be
unconditional slaves of man, doing always and only such things as shall
suit his pleasure and convenience.

"Ah, but when you remember that the law which man delivers to woman he
receives direct from God, you must confess that that alters the whole
aspect of the argument," Mr. St. John deprecated.

"I confess that it would alter it if it were true," Mrs. Malcomson
replied. "But it is not true. Man does not deliver the law of God to us,
but the law of his own inclinations. And by assuming to himself the right,
among other things, of undisputed authority over us, he has held the best
half of the conscience of the race in abeyance until now, and so checked
the general progress; he has confirmed himself in his own worst vices,
arrogance, egotism, injustice, and greed, and has developed the worst in
us also, among which I class that tendency to sycophantic adulation, which
is an effort of nature to secure the necessaries of life for ourselves."

"But women generally do not think that any change for the better is
necessary in their position. They are satisfied," Mr. St. John observed,
smiling.

"Women generally are fools," Mrs. Malcomson ruefully confessed. "And the
'women generally' to whom you allude as being satisfied are the women well
off in this world's goods themselves, who don't think for others. The
first symptom of deep thought in a woman is dissatisfaction."

"I wonder men like yourself, Mr. St. John," Mrs. Sillenger began in her
quiet diffident way, "continue so prejudiced on this subject. How you
could help on the moral progress of the world, if only you would forget
the sweet soporific 'poetry of the pulpit," as Mrs. Malcomson calls it,
and learn to think of us women, not as angels or beasts of burden--the two
extremes between which you wander--but as human beings--"

"Oh!" he protested, interrupting her, "I hope I have not made you imagine
that I do not recognize certain grave injustices to which women are at
present subject. Those I as earnestly hope to see remedied as you do. But
what I do think objectionable is the way in which women are putting
themselves forward--"

"You are right, there," said Mrs. Sillenger. "I think myself that men
might be allowed to continue to monopolize the right of impudent
self-assertion."

"But do not lend yourself to the silencing system any longer, Mr. St.
John," Mrs. Malcomson implored. "The silent acquiescence of women in an
iniquitous state of things is merely an indication of the sensual apathy
to which your ruinous 'poetry of the pulpit' has reduced the greater
number of us."

"I quite agree with you!" Evadne exclaimed; then stopped, colouring
crimson. She had forgotten in her interest that she was a stranger to
these people; and only remembered it when they all looked at her--rather
blankly, as she imagined. "I beg your pardon," she said, addressing Mrs.
Malcomson. "I could not help overhearing the discussion, and I am deeply
interested. I am--Mrs. Colquhoun," she broke off, covered with confusion.

"Oh, I am very glad to make your acquaintance," Mrs. Malcomson said
warmly. "I called on you to-day on my way here, but you were out."

"And so did I," said Mrs. Sillenger.

"And I hope to have the pleasure very soon," Mr. St. John added, bowing.

Mrs. Beale joined, the group just then.

"You have been talking so merrily in this corner," she said, sitting down
on a high chair as she spoke, "I have been wondering what it was all
about!"

"_Woman's Rights!_" Mrs. Malcomson uttered in deeply tragic tones.

"Woman's Rights! Oh, dear me, how dreadful!" Mrs. Beale exclaimed
comfortably. "I won't hear a word on the subject."

"Not on the subject of cooking?" said Mrs. Malcomson.

"What has cooking to do with it?" Mrs. Beale asked.

"Why, everything!" Mrs. Malcomson answered, smiling. "If only Mr. St. John
and a few other very good men would stand up in their pulpits boldly and
assure those who dread innovation that their food will be the better
cooked, and the 'Sphere' itself will roll along all the more smoothly for
the changes we find necessary; there would be an end of their opposition.
I would not promise women cooks, for I really think myself that the men
are superior, they put so much more feeling into it. And I can never
understand why they do not quarrel with us for the possession of that
department. I am sure we are quite ready to resign it! and really, when
one comes to think of it, it is obvious that the kitchen is much more the
man's sphere than the woman's, for it is there that his heart is!"

"You beguile me, my dear," Mrs. Beale said, smiling; "but I will not
listen to your wicked railleries." She looked at Mrs. Sillenger. "I came
to ask you if you would be so kind as to play us something," she said.

Mrs. Sillinger was a perfect musician; and as Evadne listened, her heart
expanded. When the music ceased, she looked up and about her blankly like
one who is bewildered by the sudden discovery of an unexpected loss; and
with that expression still upon her face she met the bright, penetrating,
kindly eye of a small thin elderly gentleman with refined features, a
wrinkled forehead, and thick gray hair, who was looking at her so fixedly
from the other side of the room that at first her own glance fell; but the
next moment she felt an irresistible impulse to look at him again. The
attraction was mutual. He got up at once from the low ottoman on which he
was sitting, and came across to her; and she welcomed his approach with a
smile.

"Excuse the liberty of an old man who has not been introduced," he said.
"You are Mrs. Colquhoun, I know, and my name is Price. I am an American,
and I came to Europe on official business for my country first of all; but
I am now travelling for my own pleasure."

"I am very glad to make your acquaintance," Evadne answered.

Before they could say another word to each other, however, there was a
general move of guests departing, and Colonel Colquhoun came to carry her
off. She held out her hand to Mr. Price. "We shall meet again?" she said.

"With your permission, I will call," he answered.


CHAPTER III.


Mr. St. John and Mr. Price were staying at the same hotel, and they walked
back to it together. They had only just made each other's acquaintance,
and were feeling the attraction which there is in a common object pursued
by the most dissimilar means. They were both humanitarians, Mr. Price by
choice and of set purpose, Mr. St. John of necessity--seeing that he was a
good man, but unconsciously, the consequence being much confusion of mind
on the subject, and a wide difference between his words and his deeds. He
preached, for instance, the degrading doctrine that we ought to be
miserable in this world, that all our wonderful powers of enjoyment were
only given to us to be suppressed; and further blasphemed our sacred
humanity by maintaining that we are born in sin, and sinners we must
remain, fight as we will to release ourselves from that bondage; but yet
his whole life was spent in trying to make his fellow-creatures better,
and the world itself a pleasanter place to live in. The means which he
employed, however, was the old anodyne: "Believe the best"--that is to
say, "Cultivate agreeable feelings." Mr. Price's motto, on the other hand,
was: "Know the worst." The foe must be known, must be recognized, must be
met and fought in the open if he is to be subdued at all.

This was the difference which drew the two together; each, felt the
deepest interest in the point where the other diverged, and yearned to
convert him to his own way of thought. Mr. Price would have had the
clergyman know the world; Mr. St. John would have taught Mr. Price to
ignore it, "to look up!" as he called it, or, in other words, to sit and
sigh for heaven while the heathen raged, and the wicked went their way
here undisturbed--although he had not realized up to the present that that
was practically what his system amounted to. He belonged by birth to the
caste which is vowed to the policy of ignoring, and was as sensitive as a
woman about delicate matters. Nationally, Mr. Price was the Englishman's
son, and had advanced a generation. Men are what women choose to make
them. Mr. St. John's mother was the best kind of woman of the old order,
Mr. Price was the product of the new; and the two were typical
representatives of the chivalry of the past, high-minded, ill-informed,
unforeseeing--and the chivalry of the present, which reaches on always
into futurity with the long arm of knowledge, not deceiving itself with
romantic misrepresentations of things by the way, but fully recognizing
what is wrong from the outset, and making direct for the root of the evil
instead of contenting itself by lopping a branch here and there.

"I think you said you were going to winter here?" Mr. Price remarked, as
they stepped into the street.

"Yes--if the place suits me," Mr. St. John answered; "and so far,--that is
to say for the last month,--it has done so very well. Are you a resident?"

"Well, no, not exactly," the old gentleman answered; "but I have been in
the habit of coming here for years."

"It is an interesting place," said Mr. St. John, "teeming with historical
associations."

"Yes, it is an interesting place," Mr. Price agreed, making a little pause
before he added--"full of food for reflection. Life at large is
represented at Malta during the winter season, and in a little place like
this humanity is under the microscope as it were, which makes it a happy
hunting ground for those who have to know the world."

"Ah!" Mr. St. John ejaculated deliberately. "I should think there are some
very nice people here."

"Yes--and some very nasty ones," Mr. Price rejoined. "But, of course, one
must know both."

"Oh, I differ from you there!" Mr. St. John answered, smiling. "Walk not
in sinners' way, you know!"

"On the contrary, I should say," Mr. Price rejoined, smiling responsively,
and twitching his nose as if a gnat had tickled it; "but I allow you have
got to have a good excuse when you do."

Mr. St. John smiled again slightly, but said nothing.

"There were elephants once in Malta, I am told," he began after a little
pause, changing the subject adroitly, "but they dwindled down from the
size which makes them so useful by way of comparison, till they were no
bigger than Shetland ponies, before they finally became extinct."

"And there is a set in society on the island now," Mr. Price pursued,
"formed of representatives of old English houses that once brought men of
notable size and virile into the world, but are now only equal to the
production of curious survivals, tending surely to extinction like the
elephant, and by an analogous process."

"Here we are," said Mr. St. John, as they arrived at their place of abode.
"Will you come to my room and smoke a cigarette with me?"

"Thank you, I don't smoke, but I'll go to your room, and see you smoke
one, with pleasure," Mr. Price responded.

When they got to Mr. St. John's room, the latter took off his clerical
coat and waistcoat, and put on a coloured smoking jacket, which had the
curious effect of transforming him from an ascetic looking High Churchman
into what, from his refined, intellectual, clean-shaven face, and rather
long straight hair, most people would have mistaken for an actor suffering
from overwork.

Having provided Mr. Price with a comfortable seat in the window, which was
open, he lighted a cigarette, drew up another easy-chair, and stretched
himself out in it luxuriously. He was easily fatigued at that time, and
the rest and quiet were grateful after the talk and crowd at Mrs. Beale's.
There was a little wooden balcony outside his window, full of flowers and
foliage plants; and from where he sat he saw the people passing on the
opposite side of the street below, and could also obtain a glimpse of the
Mediterranean, appearing between the yellow houses at the end of the
street, intensely blue, and sparkling in the rays of the afternoon sun. It
was altogether a soothing scene; and had he been alone he would have sunk
into that state of intellectual apathy which is so often miscalled
contemplative. The homely duties of hospitality, however, compelled him to
exert himself for the entertainment of his guest. Several of the people
they had just met at Mrs. Beale's went past together, laughing and
talking, and _à propos_ of this he remarked, "It's a bright little
world."

"Yes, on the smoothly smiling surface of society, I allow it's bright,"
Mr. Price rejoined. "The surface, however, is but a small part of it."

Mr. St. John took a whiff of his cigarette.

"Do you see that man?" Mr. Price pursued, indicating a man below the
middle height, with broad shoulders, a black beard and moustache streaked
with brown, a ruddy complexion, and obtrusively blue eyes, who was passing
at the moment.

"Captain Belliot, of H.M.S. _Abomination_," Mr. St. John answered,
using the ship's nickname, and holding out his cigarette between his
finger and thumb as he spoke, his fluent patrician English losing in
significance what it gained in melody compared with the slow dry
_staccato_ intonation of the American.

"Yes, sir," Mr. Price rejoined. "Now, he is one of the survivals I just
now mentioned--a typical specimen."

"I rather like the man," Mr. St. John answered. "He isn't a friend of
mine, but he's pleasant enough to meet."

"Just so," Mr. Price rejoined. "The manners of the kind are agreeable--on
the surface. One must give the devil his due. But on closer acquaintance
you won't find that their general characteristics are exactly pleasant.
Their minds are hopelessly tainted with exhalations from the literary
sewer which streams from France throughout the world, and their habits are
not nicer than their books.

"Ah, well," said Mr. St. John, whose sensitive lip had curled in dislike
of the subject, "it is never too late to mend. I believe, too, that the
evil is exaggerated. But at all events they repent and marry, and become
respectable men eventually."

"Well, yes, sir, they marry as a rule," Mr. Price rejoined; "and that's
the worst of it."

Mr. St. John held his cigarette poised in the air on the way to his mouth,
and looked at him interrogatively.

"Will what you call repentance restore a rotten constitution?" Mr. Price
responded. "Will it prevent a drunkard's children from being weakly
vicious? or the daughters of a licentious man from being foredoomed to
destruction by an inherited appetite for the vices which you seem to
flatter yourself end in effect when they are repented of? You do not take
into consideration the fact that the once vicious man becomes the father
of vicious children and the grandfather of criminals. You persuade women
to marry these men. The arrangement is perfect. Man's safety, and man's
pleasure; if there is any sin in it, _damn the woman_. She's weak;
she can't retaliate."

Mr. St. John's cigarette went out. He had begun to think.

"These are horrors!" he ejaculated. "But I know, thank Heaven, that the
right feeling of the community is against the perpetration of them."

"That's so," said the American. "Unfortunately, it is not with the right
feeling of the community, but with the wrong feeling of individuals, that
women have to deal."

"Heaven forbid that women should ever know anything about it!"

"I say so too," said Mr. Price. "At present, however, Heaven permits them
by the thousand to make painful personal acquaintance with the subject.
And I assure you, sir, that the indignation which has long been simmering
in whispers over tea tables in the seclusion of scented boudoirs, amongst
those same delicate dames whom you have it in your mind to keep in
ignorance of the source of most of their sufferings, mental and physical,
is fast approaching the boiling point of rebellion."

"Do you know this for a fact?"

"I do. And the time is at hand, I think, for a thorough ventilation of the
subject. It is the question of all others which must either be ignored
until society is disintegrated by the licence that attitude allows, or
considered openly and seriously. That is why I mentioned it. I see in you
every inclination to help and defend the suffering sex, and every quality
except the habit of handling facts. The subject's repulsive enough, I
allow. Right-minded people shrink in disgust even from what is their
obvious duty in the matter, and shirk it upon various pretexts, visiting
their own pain--like _Betsey Trotwood_, when she boxed the ears of
the doctor's boy--upon the most boxable person they can reach, and that is
generally the one who has forced their attention to it."

There was a pause after this, then the clergyman observed: "One knows that
there are sores which must be exposed to view if they are to be prescribed
for at all or treated with any chance of success."

"Yes, yes, that is just it," Mr. Price exclaimed. "You will perceive, if
you reflect for a moment, that there must have been a good deal that was
disagreeable in the cleansing of the Augean stables to which people in the
neighbourhood would certainly and very naturally object at the time; but
it has since been pretty generally conceded that the undertaking was a
very good sanitary measure nevertheless; and had Hercules lived in our
day, and survived the shower of stones with which he was sure to have been
encouraged during his conduct of the business, we should doubtless have
given him a dinner, or in the other case, an epitaph at least. But there
is work for the strong man still. The Augean stable of our modern
civilization must be cleansed, and it is a more difficult task than the
other was, and one to put him on his mettle and win him great renown
because it is held to be impossible."

He rose as he spoke, and looked at Mr. St. John with concern, as the
latter struggled with a bad fit of coughing.

"I am afraid I have talked too much for your strength," he added.

"Oh, no," Mr. St. John answered as soon as he could speak. "On the
contrary, I assure you. You have taken me out of myself, and that is
always good. Must you go?"

"I must, thank you. Don't rise."

But Mr. St. John had risen, and was surprised to find himself towering
over the little gentleman as they shook hands--a feeling which recurred to
him always afterward when they met, there being about Mr. Price the
something that makes the impression of size and strength and courage which
is usually only associated with physical force.


CHAPTER IV.


Next day there was an afternoon dance on board Captain Belliot's ship,
H.M.S. _Abomination_--facetiously so-called for no particular reason;
and Evadne was there with Colonel Colquhoun. She was dressed in white,
heavily trimmed with gold, and, being a bride, was an object of special
attention and interest. It was the first entertainment of the kind she had
appeared at since her arrival, and, not having a scrap of morbid sentiment
about her, she was prepared to enjoy it thoroughly, but in her own way, of
course, which, as she was new to the place and the people, would naturally
be a very quiet observant way.

Captain Belliot received her when she came on board, and they shook hands.

She was taller than he was, and looking down at him while in the act,
noticed the streaks of brown in his black beard, his brick-red skin, tight
as a gooseberry's, and his obtrusively blue eyes.

"Queen's weather!" he remarked.

"Yes," she answered, looking out at the sparkling water.

"It's a pretty place," he continued.

"Yes," she agreed, glancing toward the shore, but seeing only with the
mind's eye. Her pupils dilated, however, as she recalled the way she had
come, the narrow picturesque steep streets, almost all stone-steps, well
worn; with high irregular houses on either side, yellow, with green wooden
verandas jutting out; the wharf on which they had waited a moment for the
man-of-war's boat to take them off, and the Maltese ruffians with their
brown faces and brightly coloured clothing, lying idly about in the sun,
or chattering together at the top of their voices in little groups. They
had seemed to look at her, too, with friendly eyes. And she saw the
sapphire sea which parted in dazzling white foam from the prow of the boat
as they came along, saw the steady sweep of the oars rising and falling
rhythmically, the flash of the blades in the sunshine, the
well-disciplined faces of the men who looked at her shyly, but with the
same look which she took to be friendly; and their smart uniforms. She
would liked to have shaken hands with them all. And there was more still
in her mind when Captain Belliot asked her if she thought the place
"pretty," yet all she found for answer was the one word, "Yes"; and he,
being no physiognomist, rashly concluded that was all she had in her.

"Do you dance?" he proceeded, making one more effort to induce her to
entertain him.

"Not in the afternoon," she said.

Sir Mosley Menteith tried next.

"You come from Morningquest, do you not?" he asked, looking into her eyes.

"My people live near Morningquest," she answered.

"Ah, then I suppose you know everybody there," he observed, looking hard
at her brooch.

She reflected a moment, then answered deliberately: "Not by any means, I
should think. It is a large neighbourhood."

He twisted each side of his little light moustache, and changed the
subject, inspecting her figure as he did so.

"Do you ride?" he asked.

"Yes," she said.

There was a pause, during which she noticed a suspicion of powder on his
face, and he felt dissatisfied because she didn't seem to be going to
entertain him.

The band struck up a waltz.

"Do you dance?" he said, looking down from her face to her feet.

"Not in the afternoon," she answered.

The dance had begun, and a pair came whirling down toward them.

Evadne moved back to be out of the way, and Menteith, looking round for a
partner, saw Mrs. Guthrie Brimston opposite smiling at him.

He went over to her.

"Well, what do you make of the bride?" she asked.

"Her conversation is not exactly animated," he answered, looking into Mrs.
Guthrie Brimston's face intently.

She was a round, flat-faced, high-hipped, high-shouldered woman, short in
the body, and tight-laced; and she had a trick of wagging her skirts and
perking at a man when talking to him.

She did so now, nodding and smiling in a way that made her speech piquant
with the suggestion that she thought or knew a great deal more than she
meant to say.

"You have made her acquaintance, I suppose?" Menteith added.

"Oh, yes," she answered. "Her husband is an old friend of ours, you know,
so Bobbie thought we ought to call at once."

The tone in which she spoke suggested that she and "Bobbie" merely meant
to tolerate Mrs. Colquhoun for her husband's sake. "Bobbie" was Major
Guthrie Brimston, a very useful little man to his wife by way of
reference. When she wanted to say a smart thing which might or might not
be considered objectionable, according to the taste of the person she
addressed--and she very often did--she always presented it as a quotation
from him. "Bobbie thinks," she added now, "that if there were an Order of
the Silent Sewing Machine, Mrs. Colquhoun would be sure to be a
distinguished member of it."

A Royal personage whom Evadne had met at home recognized her at this
moment, and shook hands with her with somewhat effusive cordiality, making
a remark to which she responded quietly.

"She seems to be a pretty self-possessed young woman, too," Menteith
observed. "Her composure is perfect."

"Ah!" Mrs. Guthrie Brimston ejaculated; "those stupid people have no
nerves! Now, _I_ should shake all over in such a position!"

The band played the next few bars hard and fast, the dancers whirled like
teetotums, then stopped with the final crash of the instruments, and
separated, scattering the groups of onlookers, who re-arranged themselves
into new combinations immediately. Mrs. Guthrie Brimston leaned against
the bulwarks. Colonel Beston, of the Artillery, and Colonel Colquhoun
joined her, also her Bobbie, and Menteith remained. The conversation was
animated. Evadne, having moved, could now hear every word of it, and
thought it extremely stupid. It was all what "he said" and "she said";
what they ought to have said, and what they really meant. Mrs. Guthrie
Brimston made some cutting remarks. She talked to all the men at once, and
they appeared to appreciate her sallies; but their own replies were vapid.
She seemed to be the only one of the party with any wit. Mrs. Beston
joined her. She was a little dark woman with a patient anxious face, and
eyes that wandered incessantly till she discovered her husband with Mrs.
Guthrie Brimston. Evadne surprised the glance--entreating, reproachful,
loving, helpless--what was it? The look of a woman who finds it a relief
to know the worst. Evadne's heart began to contract; the girlish gladness
went out of her eyes.

Mrs. Beale and Edith arrived and joined her, and Menteith came and
attached himself to them at once.

"You _have_ put on the blue frock," he said softly to Edith, looking
down at her with animal eyes and a flush partly of gratified vanity on his
face.

Edith smiled and blushed. She could not reason about him. Her wits had
forsaken her.

"That's a case, I think," said Mrs. Guthrie Brimston. Several more men had
joined her by this time, and they all looked across at Edith and Menteith.
Half the men on the island took their opinions, especially of the women,
from Mrs. Guthrie Brimston. She was forever lowering her own sex in their
estimation, and they, with sheep-like docility, bowed to her dictates, and
never dreamt of judging for themselves.

Mr. Price persuaded Mr. St. John to come and look on at the dance. They
were leaning now against the bulwarks beside Mrs. Guthrie Brimston, who
tried to absorb them into her circle, but found them heavy. Mr. Price
despised her, and Mr. St. John was occupied with his own thoughts. He had
passed the night in painful reflection, and when he arose in the morning
he was more than half convinced that Mr. Price had not exaggerated; but
now, with the smiling surface of society under observation, and his senses
both soothed and exhilarated by the animated scene and the lively music,
he could not believe it. He had thought for the moment that the old
American minister was a strong and disinterested philanthropist, but now
he saw in him only the victim of a diseased imagination. The habit of
seeing society through a haze of feeling as it should be was older than
the American's entreaties that he should learn to know it as it is, and he
deliberately chose to be unconvinced.

"The person is casting covetous eyes at the bishop's pretty ewe lamb,"
Colonel Beston observed to Mrs. Guthrie Brimston _sotto voce_.

A kind of bower had been made of the stern sheets by screening them off
from the main deck with an awning, and from out of this a lady, a young
widow, stepped just at this moment, followed by a young man. They had been
out of sight together, innocently occupied leaning over, watching the fish
darting about down in the depths of the transparent water. The moment they
appeared, however, the men about Mrs. Guthrie Brimston exchanged glances
of unmistakable significance, and the young widow, perceiving this,
flushed crimson with indignation.

"Guilty conscience!" Major Guthrie Brimston remarked upon this, with a
chuckle.

Mr. St. John had witnessed the incident and overheard the remark, and the
import of both forced itself upon his attention, Mr. Price's words
recurred to him: "You are right," he remarked. "They are gross of nature,
these people. The animal in them predominates--at present. But the
spiritual, the immortal part, is there too. It must be. It has not been
cultivated, and therefore it is undeveloped. We should direct our whole
energies to the cultivation of it. It is a serious subject for thought and
prayer."

Mr. Price twitched his nose, and studied the physiognomies about him: "I
doubt myself if the spiritual nature has been as generally diffused as you
seem to imagine," he remarked in his crisp, dry way. "But if the germ of
it is anywhere it is in the women. Help them out of their difficulties,
and you will help the world at large. Now, there is one"--indicating
Evadne, who was sitting in the same place still, quietly observant.

"I was looking at her," Mr. St. John broke in. "She seems to me to be one
of those sensitive creatures, affected by sun and wind and rain, and all
atmospheric influences, to their joy or sorrow, who will suffer a
martyrdom in secret with beautiful womanly endurance."

"And be very much to blame for it!" Mr. Price interrupted. "That is your
idea of her character? Now mine is different. I should say that she is a
being so nicely balanced, so human, that either senses or intellect might
be tipped up by the fraction of an ounce. Which is right, surely; since
the senses are, instrumental in sustaining nature, while the intellect
helps it to perfection. And as to her beautiful womanly endurance"--he
shrugged his shoulders, and turned the palms of his hands upward--"I don't
know, of course; but I am no judge of character if she does not prove to
be one of the new women, who are just appearing among us, with a higher
ideal of duty than any which men have constructed for women. I expect she
will be ready to resent as an insult every attempt to impose unnecessary
suffering either upon herself or her sex at large."

"Well, I hope she will not become a contentious woman," Mr. St. John said.
"The way in which women are putting themselves forward just now on any
subject which happens to attract their attention is quite deplorable, I
think; and pushing themselves into the professions, too, and entering into
rivalry with men generally; you must confess that all that is unwomanly."

"It seems to me to depend entirely upon how it is done," Mr. Price
answered judicially. "And I deny the rivalry. All that women ask is to be
allowed to earn their bread honestly; but there is no doubt that the
majority of men would rather see them on the streets." The old gentleman
stopped, and compressed his lips into a sort of smile. "I can see," he
said, "that you are dissenting from every word I say; but I am not
disheartened. I feel sure that the scales will fall from your eyes some
day, and then you will look back, and see clearly for yourself the way in
which all moral progress has been checked for ages by the criminal
repression of women."

"Repression of women!" exclaimed Captain Belliot, who caught the words
just as the band stopped--"Good Lord! I beg your pardon, St. John--but
it's a subject I feel very strongly upon. It's impossible to tell what the
devil women will be at next. Why, I went into a hotel in Devonport for a
brandy and soda just before I sailed, and I happened to remark to a fellow
that was with me that something was 'a damned nuisance'; and the barmaid
leant over the counter: 'A shilling, sir,' she said, with the coolest
cheek in the world. 'What for?' I demanded. 'A fine, sir, for swearing,'
she answered, with the most perfect assurance. 'Now, look here, young
woman,' I said, 'you just shut up, for I'm not going to stand any of your
damned nonsense.' 'Two shillings, sir,' she said, in just the same tone. I
wanted to argue the question, but she wouldn't say a word more. She just
sent for the proprietor, and he said it was his wife's orders. She
wouldn't have any female in her service insulted by bad language, and that
fellow, the proprietor, actually supported his wife. What do you think of
that for petticoat government? He made me pay up too, by Jove! I was
obliged to do it to save a row. Now, what do you think of that for a sign
of the times?"

Mr. Price twitched his nose, and looked at Mr. St. John.

"Some signs of the times are hopeful, certainly," the latter said
enigmatically.

"What! talking seriously in these our hours of ease?" Mrs. Guthrie
Brimston broke in. "What is it all about?"

"I was just about to remark that I like a woman to _be_ a woman,"
Captain Belliot rejoined, ogling the lady, and with the general air of
being sure that she at least could have no higher ambition than to attain
to his ideal. "These bold creatures who put themselves forward, as so many
of them do nowadays, are highly antipathetic to me; and if you saw them!
the most awful old harridans--with voices!--'Shrieking sisterhood' doesn't
half come up to it!"

Mrs. Malcomson passed at that moment.

"Should you call _her_ an old harridan?" Mr. St. John asked, smiling
involuntarily.

"No," the naval man was obliged to confess; "she's deuced handsome; but
she presumes on her good looks, and doesn't trouble herself to be
agreeable. I took her in to dinner the other night, and could hardly get a
word out of her--not that she can't talk, mind you; she just wouldn't--to
pique my interest, you know. You may take your oath that was it. There's
no being up to women. But she'll find herself stranded, if she doesn't
take care. _I_ shan't bother myself to pay her any more attention;
and I'm a bad prophet if the other men in the place go out of their way to
be civil to her much longer either. Besides," he said to Mr. Price,
lowering his voice, but not enough to prevent Mr. You will never shake her
off, you brilliant young gentlemen.

For as you established your own ethics, she would still be there to see
that your ideas were carried out.

Granted she is a scandal-monger. But scandal is the sewer-system of society:
the dirty work must be done somehow. Mrs.
Grundy is your scavenger.

Americans don't talk scandal, but I fail to see how they will keep
their homes clean without it.

The scandal-mongers may be inspired by no lofty motives, but they make a
wonderful unpaid detective force.

Sheridan was not a philosopher. Ubiquitous and omniscient, Mrs. Grundy
is always with you. Once you might have escaped her by making the grand
tour, but now she has a Cook's circular ticket and watches you from the
Pyramids or the temples of Japan,--especially if, like myself, you
have the misfortune to be a celebrity.

The only way to escape her is to be photographed widely. Wasn't it Adam Smith
who said that conscience was only the reflection in ourselves of
our neighbours' opinions?

If we didn't value their opinions there would be no morality.
Foreign travel makes you feel there is something in the idea. Who cares
what a parcel of jabbering strangers think about his actions? The moment
you lose touch with your environment, the moment you cease to vibrate to
its nuances, your morality is in a parlous condition.

Better go home and sit down on the well-known couch of Catullus, and feel
once more that people are real and life is earnest and the horizon
is not its goal.

What is this mania for movement? If you travel unintelligently you see
nothing that you couldn't have seen more comfortably in a panorama--the
world going round you. If you travel intelligently, you discover the
relativity of all customs and ideas, you distrust your own beliefs,
your backbone is relaxed, your vitality snapped, and you come home
a molluscous cosmopolitan.

It is the same thing that happens if you travel mentally instead of by
mileage--if you go in for that modern curse, 'Culture.' You are not meant
to absorb the art and literature of foreigners and dead peoples,
fluttering like a bee from flower to flower.

These things were made by men for their own race and age; they never
thought of you,--you are an eavesdropper.

Cathedrals were built for Christians to pray in, not for connoisseurs to
gloat over. You should develop along your own lines, strong and
simple, not be a many-sided nullity. The true Englishmen are ploughmen
and sailors and shopkeepers, not culture-snobs.

"The greatest poets in every language are those who know only their own
language.

Shakespeare and Keats handled English as a million Professors of
Poetry cooperating could never handle it. The greatest Art has always
sprung from the direct pressure of the real world upon the souls of
the artists. To be cultured is to lose that vivid sense of the reality of
the life around you, to see it intellectually rather than to feel it
intuitively. Hence art that is too self-conscious misses the throb
of life.

George Eliot failed as soon as she began to substitute intellectual
concepts for the vivid impressions of early memories.

The moment people begin to prate about Art, the day of Art is over, and
decadence is set in. Art should be the natural semi-unconscious enhancement
of other things. The speaker wishing to convince becomes artistically
oratorical, the prophet becomes artistically poetic, the church-builder
artistically architectural, the painter of Madonnas artistically
picturesque, the composer of prayer-chants artistically musical.

Art was the child of Religion, but it has long since abandoned its
mother.

Portrait and landscape painting arose as accessories to sacred pictures;
the origin of the opera is to be sought in the Mass; literature developed
from religious writings. But gradually it was discovered that you might
paint noblemen as well as sages, and that scenery could be dissociated
from the backgrounds of Crucifixions and Marriages at Cana. And from
seeing that Art needn't have a religious meaning or content, men came
to see that it needn't have any meaning or content at all. Art, indeed,
presents possibilities of a divorce from intellect and morals of which
artists have eagerly availed themselves. But Art for Art's sake is Dead-Sea
fruit--rosy without, ashes within. Socrates was not perhaps quite right
in saying that the Beautiful was the Useful, but it doesn't follow that the
Beautiful should be the Useless. Even crockery, cutlery, and furniture
should never be Beautiful at the cost of utility. Their Beauty should
be implicated with their natural shapes, inblent with and inseparable from
their uses, not a monstrous accretion from without. The most
artistic knife is the quintessence of knifehood."
"But that is my idea of Art for Art's sake," I interrupted, for he had now
got his second wind. "Art has always to express the quintessence of
something--be it a street, a life, a national movement, a----"
"Art for Art's sake means making beautiful knives that won't cut and beautiful
glasses that won't hold water, and beautiful pictures and poems that say
nothing. The people who want their Art dissociated from their morals are
in danger of spiritual blight, and inhabiting a universe of empty
nothings. Too much self-consciousness is as sterile as too little.
Look at these modern Renaissances! They all----"
"Yes, I know: I have written about that," I said. "And now there is another
one, the Jewish. Have you read the plan for 'A Jewish State,' by Dr.
Herzl, of Vienna? No dreamer he, but wonderfully sane, despite his lofty
conception of a moralised, rationalised, modern State. Too 'modern,'
indeed, this idea of Messiah as a joint-stock company! I predicted
years ago we should come to that. But methinks the Doctor----"
"They are starting the Grand Prix," hastily interrupted the Young
Fogey.
"Good-bye! Such a delightful talk!" And turning his back on the
horses, he hurried off the field to lose himself and perhaps find a new
pair of English ears among the parasols and equipages of the sunlit
Prater.

XI
CRITICS AND PEOPLE
What is the critic's duty at the play? Does he represent Art, or does he
represent the Public? If he represent Art, then he is but a
refracting medium between the purveyor and the public, which will
therefore be wofully mistaken if it seek in his critiques a guide to its
play-going, as it to some extent does. For while people do not always
like a play because they are told it is good, they often refrain
from going to see one because they are told it is bad. When I was a
dramatic critic--a phrase that merely means I did not pay for my seat--nothing
struck me more forcibly than the frequent discrepancy between the opinions
of the audience at a _première_ and the opinions of the papers. Again
and again have I seen an audience moved to laughter and cheers and tears
by a play which the great outside public would be informed the next
morning was indifferent or worse. The discrepancy was sometimes
explicable by _claques_, which are almost as discreditable to managements
as the keeping of tame critics, who eat food out of their hand. Sometimes
it was not professional _claques_, but amateurs come to see a
friend's play _en masse_, and applauding out of all proportion to
its merits, not so much perhaps from friendship as from simple
astonishment at finding any merits.

But putting aside _claques_, it remains true that an audience will often
heartily enjoy what a critic will heartily damn--sometimes in half
a dozen papers, your capable critic being like a six-barrelled
revolver.

And so--often enough--the piece, after futile efforts to masquerade
in the advertisement columns in a turned garment of favourable
phrases, dies in an odour of burnt paper; the treasury is robbed
of its due returns; and numerous worthy persons to whom it would
have given boundless pleasure are deprived of their just enjoyment.

The obvious truth is that the public and the critics--the people who
pay to see plays and the people who are paid to see plays--have
different canons of criticism.

Sometimes their judgments coincide, but quite as frequently they disagree.
It is the same with popular books.

And the reason of this is not far to seek.

The critic is not only more cultured than the average playgoer, he
is more _blasé_.

He knows the stock situations, the stage tricks, the farcical misunderstandings,
the machine-made pathos, the dull mechanic round of repartee, the innocent
infant who intervenes in a divorce suit (like the Queen's Proctor), the
misprised mother-in-law, the bearded spinster sighing like a furnace, the
ingenuous and slangy young person of fifteen with the well-known cheek, and
the even more stereotyped personages preserved in Mr. Jerome's "Stage-land."
They all come, if not from Sheffield, from a perpetual tour in the
provinces. The critic knows, too, which plays are taken from the French
and which from the English, where the actor is gagging and when he is
"fluffy." A good deal of the disillusionment of the scene is also his: he
knows that the hero is not young nor the heroine beautiful, nor the villain
as vicious as either.

How different the attitude of the occasional playgoer! Seeing only
a tithe of the plays of the day, he neither knows nor cares whether they
repeat one another. The most hackneyed device may seem brilliantly original
to him, the stalest stage trick as fresh as if just hot from
the brain; and jokes that deterred the dove from returning to the ark arride
him vastly.

_Per contra_, for his unjaded imagination absolutely new scenes and
dialogues have no more novelty than the comparatively aged.
Probability or truth to life he demands not, perfection of form were
thrown away upon him. His soul melts before the simplest pathos, he is
made happy by a happy ending, and when Momus sits on a hat "he
openeth his mouth and saith Ha!

ha!" He is a flute upon which you may play what false notes you will. In
some versions of "Uncle Tom's Cabin" he placidly accepts two Topsies. I
s'pec's one growed out of t' other. He hath a passion for the real as well
as the ideal, and in order to see a fire-engine, or Westminster Bridge,
or a snow-storm, he will perspire you two hours at the pit's mouth.
He could see them any day in the street, but it gives him wondrous joy
to see them in their wrong places. How absurd, then, for the average critic
to be play-taster to the occasional playgoer! He no more represents him
than an M. P. represents the baby he kisses. As well might one ask a
connoisseur to choose the claret for a back-parlour supper-party. Thus the
critic cannot honestly represent the Public. That he cannot
represent Art without injuring the Theatre as well as the Public,
has already been shown.

The conclusion one is driven to is that the critic has no _raison d'être_
at all in the topical press. There he should be replaced by the reporter.
The influence of cultivated criticism should be brought to bear on the
drama only from the columns of high-class magazines or books.

Nor am I more certain of the use of the art critic. He is far too conflicting
to be of any practical value, and he as often contradicts himself as his
fellows. He hides his ignorance in elegant English, sometimes illuminated
by epigram, and from his dogmatic verdicts there is no appeal. Not
infrequently he is resolved to be a critic "in spite of nature," as Sir
Joshua has it in a delicious phrase which was possibly given him by his
friend "the great lexicographer." In a letter to the "Idler," the painter
recommends those devoid of eye or taste, and with no great disposition to
reading and study, to "assume the character of a connoisseur, which may
be purchased at a much cheaper rate than that of a critic in poetry."
"The remembrance of a few names of painters, with their general
characters," says Sir Joshua, "and a few rules of the Academy, which
they may pick up among the Painters, will go a great way towards making a
very notable Connoisseur." He goes on to describe a gentleman of this
cast, whose mouth was full of the cant of Criticism, "which he emitted with
that volubility which generally those orators have who annex no
ideas to their words."

When I once expressed to Mr.

Whistler my conviction that, with the single exception of religion, more
nonsense was talked on the subject of art than on any other topic in the
world, that great authority refused to allow religion any such
precedence.

Certainly during the season when, for the middle-class Londoner, art
"happens," the claims of art to that proud pre-eminence become
overwhelming, if only temporarily so.

Everybody gives his opinion freely, and it is worth the price.

To criticise painting is only less difficult than to execute it. Fifty
per cent. of art is sheer science, the rigid, accurate science of form and
perspective, I do not say that accuracy is necessary to art. Still it is
what most people presume to judge. But does one person in a hundred
know the true proportions of things, or possess the eye to gauge the anatomy
of a figure? Owing to the neglect in schools of the rudiments of drawing,
our eyes barely note the commonest objects; we remark just enough of their
characteristics to identify them. "Consider!" as Mr. John Davidson writes
in his "Random Itinerary": "did you ever see a sparrow? You have heard
and read about sparrows. The streets are full of them; you know they
exist. But you could not describe one, or say what like is its note.
You have never seen a sparrow, any more than you have seen the
thousand-and-one men and women you passed in Fleet street the last time
you walked through it. _Did_ you ever see a sparrow?" And then there
is colour. Do you really know what the colour of that landscape is, or
what complex hues mantle the surface of yonder all-mirroring pool? Do
you know that, the appearance of nature is constantly varying with every
change of light and every passing cloud? Do you know how Primrose
Hill looks at night? Perhaps you think you know how a haystack looks in
the sunlight; yet across the Channel the illustrious Monet devoted
months to painting one haystack, making fresh discoveries daily.

I do not believe you know how many Roman figures there are on your watch-dial.
You probably think there are twelve. But what is far more important, you
may be quite devoid of artistic sensibility. Yet you would not
hesitate to criticise the Academy or even to be paid for it. I had
occasion to buy a doll the other day. It was a she-doll. There seems,
by the way, a tremendous preponderance of the fair sex in dolls: what
difficult social problems must agitate the Dolls' Houses!

This was a pretty doll, with wide blue eyes, and a wealth of golden
tow, and an expression of aristocratic innocence on its waxen cheek,
faintly flushed with paint, and I bore it home with pride.

But when I came to examine it, I found it was but a sawdust abomination.
Oh the modelling of the arm, oh the anatomy of the leg, oh the patella
proximate to the ankle! I felt that if I gave that doll to the
expectant infant, she might grow up to be an art critic.
Thus, then, mused I sorrowfully, is the nation's taste made in Germany.
We are corrupted from the cradle, even as upon our tombs badly
carved angels balance themselves dolefully. Let me make a nation's
dolls: I care not who makes its pictures. Was it of these dolls a
late President of the Royal Academy was thinking, when he said that the
German genius did not find its best expression in plastic art? The Academy
will not be permanently improved until we improve our dolls.

XII
TABLE-TALK
Now that the world is so full of free dinners for the well-fed, it behoves
hostesses to reconsider their methods. With so many dinner-tables open
to the lion, or even to the cub, they must do their spiriting dexterously
if they would feed him. In these days when seven hostesses pluck hold of
the swallow-tails of one man, and the form of grace before meals must be,
"For those we are about to receive, Lord make us truly thankful," something
more than the average attraction is needed to induce the noble animal
to dine at your expense. There is one improvement in the great dinner
function for which I would respectfully solicit the attention of ladies
who entertain but do not amuse.
But of course there were drawbacks,
and the thing of all others she disliked most was being toadied. There was
one pair of inveterate toadies in the garrison, Major and Mrs. Guthrie
Brimston. They belonged to a species well-known in the service, and
tolerated on the principle of _Damne-toi, pourvu que tu nous amuse_.
Major Guthrie Brimston claimed to be one of the Morningquest family, and
he had a portrait of the duke, as the head of the house, in his dressing
room. It was balanced on the right by _Ecce Homo_, and on the left by
the _Sistine Madonna_, but it was popularly supposed that he
worshipped the duke. The pair acted the role of devoted husband and wife
successfully, being in fact sincere in their habit of playing into each
other's hands for their own selfish purposes; and people who wished for an
excuse to tolerate them because they were amusing, might say of them quite
truly: "Well, whatever their faults, they are certainly devoted to each
other." But it was a partnership of self-interest, enhanced by a little
sentimentality, and they understood it themselves, for Mrs. Guthrie
Brimston confessed in a moment of expansion that she knew "Bobbie" would
marry again directly if she died, and certainly she would do the same if
she lost him; why shouldn't she?

Mrs. Guthrie Brimston was a nasty-minded woman, of extremely coarse
conversation, and, without compromising herself, she was a fecund source
of corruption in others. No younger woman of undecided character could
come under her influence without being tainted in mind if not in manners.
She delighted in objectionable stories, and her husband fed her fancy from
the clubs liberally. Her stock-in-trade consisted for the most part of
these stories, which she would retail to her lady friends at afternoon
teas. She told them remarkably well too, and knew exactly how to suit them
to palates which were only just beginning to acquire a taste for such
fare, and were still fastidious. Wherever she came there was laughter
among the ladies, of the high hysteric bacchante kind, not true mirth, but
a loud laxity, into which they were beguiled for the moment, and which was
the cause of self-distrust, disgust, and regret, upon reflection, to the
better kind. If the question of motive is to be taken into account in
considering the words and deeds of people, it may be confidently asserted
that the Guthrie Brimstons never said a good-natured thing nor did a kind
one. "I say, Minnie, if I give that sergeant of mine a goose at Christmas,
I think I'll get more work out of the fellow next year," Major Brimston
said to his wife at breakfast one morning.

"Yes, do," his wife answered sympathetically. "And I say, Bobbie, I'm
going to work Captain Askew a bedspread. He's an awfully useful little
man."

One form of pleasantry the Guthrie Brimstons greatly affected was
nicknaming. They nicknamed everybody, always opprobriously, often happily
in the way of hitting off a salient peculiarity; but they were not in the
least aware that they were themselves the best nicknamed people in the
service. And they would not have liked it had they known it, for they were
both exceedingly touchy. They held no feelings of another sacred, but
their own supreme. Mrs. Guthrie Brimston was known as "The Brimston
Woman."

Her conversation bristled with vain repetitions. She was always "a worm"
when asked after her health, and everything that pleased her was "pucka."
She knew no language but her own, and that she spoke indifferently, her
command of it being limited for the most part to slang expressions, which
are the scum of language; and a few stock phrases of polite quality for
special occasions. But she used the latter awkwardly, as workmen wear
their Sunday clothes.

Of the Guthrie Brimston morals it is safe to say that they would neither
of them have broken either the sixth, seventh, or eighth commandments; but
they bore false witness freely--not in open assertion, however, for that
could be easily refuted, and fair fight was not at all in their line. But
when false witness could be meanly conveyed by implication and innuendo,
it formed the staple of their conversation.

"Those Guthrie Brimstons should be public prosecutors," Evadne said to
Colonel Colquhoun at breakfast one morning, commenting upon some story of
theirs which he had just retailed to her. "I notice when anyone's
character is brought forward to be judged by society they are always
Counsel for the Prosecution."

These were the people whom Colonel Colquhoun first introduced to Evadne.
They amused him, and therefore he encouraged them to come to the house.
Mrs. Guthrie Brimston suited him exactly. To use their own choice
language, he would have given her away at any time, and she him; but that
did not prevent them enjoying each other's society thoroughly.

True to her determination to make things pleasant for Colonel Colquhoun if
possible, and seeing that he found these people congenial, Evadne did her
best to cultivate their acquaintance for his sake. Never successfully,
however. A mere tolerance was as far as she got; but even that was
intermittent; and the undercurrent of criticism which streamed through her
mind in their presence could never be checked.

But she was slow to read character. Her impulse was always to believe in
people, and to like them; and she had to acquire a knowledge of their
faults painfully, bit by bit. But Colonel Colquhoun helped her here. He
was an inveterate gossip, very much in the manner of Mrs. Guthrie Brimston
herself, only that he was more refined when he talked to Evadne; and at
breakfast, their one _tête-a-tête_ meal in the day, it was his habit
to tell her such club stories as were sufficiently decent, and what "he
said" and what "she said" of each other, upon which he would strike an
average to arrive at the probable truth.

"Do you happen to know what is at the bottom of the feud between Mrs.
Guthrie Brimston and Mrs. Malcomson?" he asked her one morning at
breakfast.

"Mrs. Guthrie Brimston's defects of character obviously," said Evadne
sententiously.

"Then you prefer Mrs. Malcomson?" he suggested. "Now, _I_ can't get
on with her a bit. She always appears to me so cold and censorious."

"Does she?" said Evadne thoughtfully. "But she is not really so at all.
She is judicial though, and sincere, which gives one a sense of security
in her presence."

"But she is deadly dull," said Colonel Colquhoun.

"Oh, no!" Evadne exclaimed, smiling. "You mistake her entirely. She made
me laugh immoderately only yesterday."

"I should like to see you laugh immoderately," said Colonel Colquhoun.

Major Guthrie Brimston surprised Evadne more, perhaps, than his wife did.
She began by overlooking the little man somehow without the least
intending it, and as he seemed to himself to fill the horizon when in
society and block out all view of anybody else, he could only believe that
she did it on purpose.

He was by way of being an amateur actor, a low comedy man; but he was not
sincere enough to personate any character, or be anything either on the
stage or off it but his own small inartistic self; and no amount of
bawling could make him an actor, though he bawled himself hoarse as a
rule, mistaking sound for the science of expression. Still, it was the
fashion to consider him funny. People called him "Grigsby" and
"Kickleberry Brown," and laughed when he twiddled his thumbs. He was
forever buffooning, and if he sat on a high stool with his toes just
touching the floor, his head on one side, a sad expression of countenance,
and the tips of his fingers touching, he was supposed to be doing
something amusing, and the effort would be rewarded with laughter, in
which, however, Evadne could not join. These performances outraged her
sense of the dignity of poor human nature, which it is easy enough to
discount, but very difficult to maintain; and made her sorry for him.

His hands were another offence to her. They were fat and podgy, with short
pointed fingers, indicative of animalism and ill-nature, the opposite of
all that is refined and beautiful--truly of necessity an offence to her.

It was at first that she had overlooked him, but after a time, when she
began to know him better, the little, fat, funny man magnetized her
attention. She could not help gravely considering him wherever she met
him, and wondering about him--wondering about them both in fact. She
wondered, for one thing, why they were so fond of eating and drinking, her
own taste in those matters being of the simplest description.

"I never deny myself anything," said Mrs. Guthrie Brimston. And she looked
like it.

Evadne wondered also at their meanness, when she saw them saving money by
borrowing the carriages of people whom she had heard them class as
"Nothing but shopkeepers, you know. We shouldn't speak to them anywhere
else." And whom they ridiculed habitually for the mispronunciation of
words, and for accents unmistakably provincial.

What could Evadne have in common with these flippant people--scum
themselves, forever on the surface, incapable even of seeing beneath,
their every idea and motive a falsification of something divine in life or
thought? They did not even speak the same language. To their insidious
slang she opposed a smooth current of perfect English, which seemed to
reflect upon the inferior quality of their own expressions and led to
mutual embarrassment. Evadne meant every word she uttered, and was careful
to choose the one which should best express her meaning. Mrs. Guthrie
Brimston's meanings, on the other hand, told best when half concealed.
Another difficulty was, too, that Evadne's clear, decided speech had the
effect of exposing innuendo and insincerity, and making both "bad form,"
which, socially speaking, is a much more terrible stigma to bear than an
accusation of dishonesty, however well authenticated. And even their very
manner of expressing legitimate mirth was not the same, for Mrs. Guthrie
Brimston laughed aloud, while Evadne's laugh was soundless.

Evadne suffered when she found herself being toadied by these people. She
said nothing, however. They were Colonel Colquhoun's friends, and she felt
herself forced to be civil to them so long as he chose to bring them to
the house. And they were besides an evil out of which good came to her
quickly. For as soon as she understood their manners and their modes of
thought, she felt her heart fill with earnest self-congratulation: "If
these are the kind of people whom Colonel Colquhoun prefers," was her
mental ejaculation, "what an escape I have had! Thank Heaven, he is
nothing to me."


CHAPTER VII.


Society in Malta during the sunny winter is very much like the society of
a London season, only that it is more representative because there are
fewer specimens of each class, and those who do go out are like delegates
charged with a concentrated extract of the peculiarities and prejudices of
their own set. When Evadne arrived, at the beginning of the winter, the
rest of the party had already assembled. There were naval people,
military, commercial, landed gentry, clerical, royalty, and beer. The
principal representative of this latter interest was a lady whom Mrs.
Guthrie Brimston called the Queen of Beersheba because of her splendid
habiliments, and this is a fair specimen of Mrs. Guthrie Brimston's wit.

Evadne was received in silence, as it were, for abroad the question is not
generally "Who are you?" as at home, but "What are you like?" or "How much
can you do for us?" and people were waiting till she showed her colours.
She never did show any decided colours of the usual kind, however. She was
not "a beauty beyond doubt"--some people did not admire her in the least.
She was not "the same" or "nice" to everybody, for she had strong
objections to certain people, and showed that she had; and she was not "by
way of entertaining" at all, although she did "as much of that kind of
thing" as other ladies of her station. But yet, with all these negatives,
she made a distinct impression on the place as soon as she appeared. It
sounds paradoxical, but she was celebrated at once for her silence and for
what she had said. The weight of her occasional utterances told. And if it
were fair to call Mrs. Guthrie Brimston counsel for the prosecution,
Evadne might have been set up as counsel for the defence; for it so
happened that when she did speak in those early days it was usually in
defence of something or somebody--people, principles, absent friends,
_or_ enemies; anything unfairly attacked. Generally, when she said
anything cutting, it was so clearly incisive you hardly knew for a moment
where you were injured. She did it like the executioner of that Eastern
potentate who decapitated a criminal with such skill and with so sharp an
instrument that the latter did not know when he was executed and went on
talking, his head remaining _in situ_ until he sneezed. There was one
old gentleman, Lord Groome, whom she had disposed of several times in that
way without, however, being able to get rid of him quite, because his
stupidity was a hardy perennial which came up again all the fresher and
stronger for having been lopped. He was a degenerated, ridiculous-looking
old object, a man with the most touching confidence in his tailor, which
the latter invariably betrayed by never making him a garment that fitted
him. He had begun by admiring Evadne, and had endeavoured to pay his
senile court to her with fulsome flatteries in the manner approved of his
kind--but he ended by being afraid of her.

His first collision with Evadne was on the subject of "those low
Radicals," against whom he had been launching out in unmeasured terms.
"Why low, because Radical?" she asked. "I should have thought, among so
many, that some must be honest men, and nothing honest can be low."

"I tell you, my dear lady," he replied, his temper tried by her words, but
controlled by her appearance, "I tell you the Radicals are a low lot, the
whole of them."

"Ah! Then I suppose you know them all," she said, looking at him
thoughtfully.

The want of intelligence in the community at large was made painfully
apparent by the stories of her peculiar opinions which were freely
circulated and seldom suspected. The Queen of Beersheba declared that
Evadne approved of the frightful cruelties which the people inflicted on
the nobles during the Reign of Terror, that she had heard her say so
herself.

What Evadne did say was: "The revolutionary excesses were inevitable. They
came at the swing of the pendulum which the nobles themselves had set in
motion; and if you consider the sufferings that had been inflicted on the
people, and their long endurance of them, you will be more surprised to
think that, they kept their reason so long than that they should have lost
it at last. 'Pour la populace ce n'est jamais par envie d'attaquer qu'elle
se soulève, mais par impatience de souffrir.'"

But the French Revolution is an abstract subject of impersonal interest
compared with the Irish question at the present time; and the commotion
which was caused by the misrepresentation of Evadne's remarks about the
Reign of Terror was insignificant compared with what followed when her
feeling for Ireland had been misinterpreted. She gave out the text which
called forth the second series of imbecilities daring a dinner party at
her own house one night, her old friend, Lord Groome, supplying her with a
peg upon which to hang her conclusions, by making an intemperate attack
upon the Irish.


CHAPTER VIII.


Captain Belliot was not one of the guests at that dinner party of
Evadne's, but he happened to call on Mrs. Guthrie Brimston next day, and
finding her alone, had tea with her _tête-à-tête_; and of course she
entertained him with her own version of what had occurred the night
before.

"The dinner itself was very good," she said. "All their dinners are, you
know. But Mrs. Colquhoun was "--she raised her hands, and nodded her head--
"well, just _too_ awful!" she concluded.

"Indeed!" he observed, leaning back in his chair, crossing his legs, and
settling himself for a treat generally. "You surprise me, because she has
never struck me as being the kind of person who would set the Thames on
fire in any way."

Mrs. Guthrie Brimston smiled enigmatically: "Do you admire her very much?"
she asked with the utmost suavity.

"Well," he answered warily, "she is rather peculiar in appearance, don't
you know."

Mrs. Guthrie Brimston drew her own conclusions, not from the words, but
from the wariness, and proceeded: "It is not in appearance only that that
she is peculiar, then. She astonished us all last night, I can assure
you."

"How?" he asked, to fill up an artistic pause.

"By the things she said!" Mrs. Guthrie Brimston answered, with an
affectation of reserve.

"Now you do surprise me!" Captain Belliot declared. "Because I cannot
imagine her saying anything but 'How do you do?' and 'Good-bye,' 'Yes' and
'No,' 'Indeed!' 'Please,' 'Thank you,' and 'Do you think so?' On my
honour, those words are all I have ever heard her utter, and I have met
her as often as anybody on the island. Now, _I_ like a woman with
something in her," he concluded, ogling Mrs. Guthrie Brimston.

"Well, then, she must have been hibernating, or something, when she first
came out, for she has begun to talk now with a vengeance," Mrs. Guthrie
Brimston answered smartly.

"But what has she been saying?" he asked, with great curiosity.

"I simply cannot tell you!" she answered pointedly.

"So bad as that?" he said, raising his eyebrows.

"Yes. Things that _no_ woman should have said," she subjoined with
emphasis.

There was, of course, only one conclusion to be drawn from this, and it
would have been drawn at the club later in the day inevitably, even if
other ladies had not also declared that Mrs. Colquhoun had said such
dreadful things that they really could not repeat them. It is true that
some of the men of the party mentioned the matter in a different way, and
one, when asked what it was exactly that Mrs. Colquhoun had said, even
answered casually: "Oh, some rot about the Irish question!" But the
explanation made no impression, and was immediately forgotten. Captain
Belliot himself was so excited by the news that he hurried away from Mrs.
Guthrie Brimston as soon as he could possibly excuse himself without
giving offence, and went at once to call upon Evadne in order to inspect
her from this unexpected point of view.

He found her talking tranquilly to Mr. St. John, Edith, and Mrs. Beale;
and although he sat for half an hour, she never said a word of the
slightest significance. That, however, proved nothing either one way or
the other, and he left her with his confidence in Mrs. Guthrie Brimston's
insinuations quite unshaken, his theory being that the women whose minds
are in reality the most corrupt are as a rule very carefully guarded in
their conversation, although, of course, they always betray themselves
sooner or later by some such slip as that with which he credited
Evadne--an idea which he proceeded to expand at the club with great
effect.

Evadne's reputation was in danger after that, and she risked it still
further by acting in defiance of the public opinion of the island
generally, in order to do what she conceived to be an act of justice.

Mrs. Guthrie Brimston went to her one morning, brimming over with news.

"My husband has just received a letter from a friend of his in India,
Major Lopside, telling him to warn us all not to call on Mrs. Clarence,
who has just joined your regiment," she burst out. "I thought I ought to
let you know at once. She met her husband in India, Major Lopside says,
and it was a runaway match. But that is not all. For he says he knows for
a fact that they travelled together for three hundred miles down country,
sleeping at all the dak bungalows by the way, before they _were_
married!"

"Waiting until they came to some place where they could be married, I
suppose?" Evadne suggested.

Mrs. Guthrie Brimston laughed. "Taking a sort of trial trip, I should
say!" she ventured. "But it was very good of Major Lopside to let us know.
I should certainly have called if he hadn't."

"You make me feel sick--" Evadne began.

"I knew I should!" Mrs, Guthrie Brimston interposed triumphantly.

"Sick at heart," Evadne pursued, "to think of an Englishman being capable
of writing a letter for the express purpose of ruining a woman's
reputation."

Mrs. Brimston changed countenance. "We think it was awfully kind of Major
Lopside to let us know," she repeated, perking.

"Well, _I_ think," said Evadne, her slow utterance giving double
weight to each word--"_I_ think he must be an exceedingly low person
himself, and one probably whom Mrs. Clarence has had to snub. He could
only have been actuated by animus when he wrote that letter. One may be
quite sure that a man is never disinterested when he does a low thing."

"It was a private letter written for our private information," Mrs.
Guthrie Brimston asserted. She was ruffled considerably by this time.

"No, not written for your private information," Evadne rejoined, "or if it
were, you are making a strange use of it. I have no doubt, however, that
it was designed for the very purpose to which you are putting it--the
purpose of spoiling the Clarences' chance of happiness in a new place. And
it is precisely to the 'private' character of the document that I take
exception. If this Major Lopside has any accusation to bring against
Captain Clarence, he should have done it publicly, and not in this
underhand manner. He should have written to Colonel Colquhoun."

"Nonsense," said Mrs. Guthrie Brimston, her native rudeness getting the
better of her habitual caution at this provocation. "Major Lopside would
not be fool enough to report a man to his own chief. Why, he might get the
worst of it himself if there were an inquiry."

"Exactly," Evadne answered. "He thinks it safer to stab in the dark. Will
you kindly excuse me? I am very busy this morning, writing my letters for
the mail. But many thanks for letting me know about this malicious story."

There was nothing for it but to retire after this, which Mrs. Guthrie
Brimston did, discomfited, and with an uneasy feeling, which had been
growing upon her lately, that Evadne was not quite the nonentity for which
she had mistaken her.

Colonel Colquhoun had lunched at mess that day, and Evadne did not see him
until quite late, when she met him on the Barraca with the Guthrie
Brimstons.

It was the hour when the Barraca is thronged, and Evadne had gone with a
purpose, expecting to find him there.

He left the Guthrie Brimstons and joined her as soon as she appeared.

"I have been home to look for you," he said, "but I found that you had
gone out without an escort, no one knew where."

"I have been making calls," Evadne answered--"and making Mrs. Clarence's
acquaintance also. Oh, there she is, leaning against that arch with her
husband. Have you met her yet? Let me introduce you. She is charmingly
pretty, but very timid."

Colonel Colquhoun's brow contracted.

"I thought Mrs. Guthrie Brimston had warned you--"

"_Warned_ me?" Evadne quietly interposed. "Mrs. Guthrie Brimston
brought me a scandalous story which had the effect of making me call on
Mrs. Clarence at once. I suppose you have seen this precious Major
Lopside's letter?"

"Yes," he answered. "And I am sorry you called without consulting me. You
really ought to have consulted me. It will make it doubly awkward for you,
having called. But we'll rush the fellow. I'll make him send in his papers
at once."

"Why is it awkward for me--what is awkward for me?" Evadne asked.

"Why, having a lady in the regiment you can't know, to begin with, and
having to cut her after calling upon her," he answered. "If you would only
condescend to consult me occasionally I could save you from this kind of
thing."

"But why may I not countenance Mrs. Clarence?"

"You cannot countenance a woman there is a story about," he responded
decidedly.

"But where is the proof of the story?" she asked,

Colonel Colquhoun reflected: "A man wouldn't write a letter of that kind
without some grounds for it," he said.

"We must find out what the exact grounds were," said Evadne.

"Well, you see none of the other ladies are speaking to her," Colonel
Colquhoun observed, with the air of one whose argument is unanswerable.

"They are sheep," said Evadne, "but they can be led aright as well as
astray, I suppose. We'll see, at all events. But don't let me keep you
from your friends. I want to speak to Mrs. Malcomson."

There was a quiet sense of power about Evadne when she chose to act which
checked opposition at the outset, and put an end to argument. Colonel
Colquhoun looked disheartened, but like a gentleman he acted at once on
the hint to go. He did not rejoin the Guthrie Brimstons, however, but sat
alone under one of the arches of the Barraca, turning his back on the
entrancing view of the Grand Harbour, a jewel of beauty, set in silence.

Colonel Colquhoun was watching. He saw Mrs. Clarence turn from the strange
Christian women who eyed her coldly, and lean over the parapet; he saw the
influence of the scene upon her mind in the sweet and tranquil expression
which gradually replaced the half-pained, half-puzzled look her face had
been wearing. He saw her husband standing beside her, but with his back to
the parapet, looking at the people gloomily and with resentment, but also
half-puzzled, perceiving that his wife was being slighted, and wondering
why.

Colonel Colquhoun saw Mrs. Guthrie Brimston also, going from one group to
another with the peculiar ducking-forward gait of a high-hipped,
high-shouldered woman, followed by her little fat "Bobbie," smiling
herself, and met with smiles which were followed by noisy laughter; and he
noticed, too, that invariably the eyes of those she addressed turned upon
Mrs. Clarence, and their faces grew hard and unfriendly; and not one
person to whom she spoke looked the happier or the better for the
attention when she left them. Colonel Colquhoun, with a set countenance,
slowly curled his blond moustache. Only his eyes, moved, following Mrs.
Guthrie Brimston for a while, and then returning to Evadne. She was
speaking to Mrs. Malcomson, and the latter looked, as she listened, at
Mrs. Guthrie Brimston. Then Evadne took her arm, and the two sauntered
over to Mrs. Beale--an important person, who always adopted the last
charitable opinion she heard expressed positively, and acted upon it.

It was Mrs. Malcomson who spoke to her, and the effect of what she said
was instantaneous, for the old lady bridled visibly, and then set out,
accompanied by Edith, with the obvious intention of heading the relief
party herself that very minute. She stationed herself beside Mrs.
Clarence, and stood, patting the poor girl's hand with motherly tenderness;
smiling at her, and saying conventional nothings in a most cordial
manner.

Colonel Colquhoun had watched these proceedings, understanding them
perfectly, but remaining impassive as at first. And Mrs. Guthrie Brimston
had also seen signs of the re-action the moment it set in, and shown her
astonishment. She was not accustomed to be checked in full career when it
pleased her to be down upon another woman, and she didn't quite know what
to do. She looked first at Colonel Colquhoun, inviting him to rejoin her,
but he ignored the glance; and she therefore found herself obliged either
to give him up or to go to him. "I can call spirits from the vasty deep"
myself, and they will come when I call them, but the "vasty deep" is the
deep of my own Sub-Consciousness. We seem to hear voices from spirit-land;
but as when we hold a sea-shell to our ear and seem to hear the
ocean it is only the blood in our own veins, so--to continue Eugene
Lee-Hamilton's fine sonnet--
Lo! in my heart I hear, as in a shell, The murmur of a world beyond
the grave, Distinct, distinct, though faint and far it be.

Thou fool! this echo is a cheat as well,-- The hum of earthly
instincts,--and we crave A world unreal as the shell-heard sea.

Tables might be "turned" to various purposes.

Criminals might be compelled to yield up their secrets to them in
uncontrollable muscular vibrations, their Sub-Consciousness being
tapped.

For students under examination table-turning would be very useful
for recalling forgotten knowledge.

The Planchette would be the most convenient form. For obviously
the _modus operandi_ of the Planchette is exactly the same as the table's.
The medium's Sub-Consciousness arrives at an answer by guesswork,
reminiscence, etc., and produces the muscular movements of writing without
first passing the message through the writer's Consciousness. Mr. Stead
has, I believe, a familiar spirit called Julia.
This is merely a projection of his own Sub-Consciousness, the
Planchette being the artificial instrument for enabling him to give
pseudo-objectivity to his thought, to detach a shred of his mind.

Even so, many a dramatist marshals toy figures on a mimic stage.

The external image is a help to weak imaginations.

The process of novel-writing involves breaking up your mind into bits--one
for each character.

And when the characters are said to take the reins into their own
hands, it means that the bits are developing an independent
existence. If Mr. Stead is not careful, Julia will get the upper hand
of him, his Sub-Consciousness will dominate his Consciousness, and
then he will be mad. This detachment of bits of mind is dangerous; the
monster may overpower Frankenstein. Julia is literally a child of Mr.
Stead's brain, a psychical daughter embodied in a Planchette. Double
Consciousness, Double Identity, are well-known forms of insanity. In
a mild degree they consist with sanity. Landseer could paint different heads
simultaneously with both hands.

Hypnotism, on this theory, would be the lulling of the patient's
Consciousness, the closing of his central I, and the setting of his
Sub-Consciousness to work in accordance with suggestions.

Thought-transference seems a superfluous hypothesis here.

Death is the cessation of both Consciousness and Sub-Consciousness;
and when a drowned man is resuscitated his Sub-Consciousness can
never have ceased.

Do you fail to understand Sub-Consciousness? So do I--as much as that our
digestion operates and our blood circulates without asking our
permission.

It is not unreasonable to suppose that Sub-Consciousness is simply the
psychical side of the molecular changes that are going on in our
nervous system.

There is more than "metaphysical conceit" in that elegy of Donne's:

Her pure and eloquent blood Spoke in her cheeks, and so distinctly wrought
That one might almost say her body thought.

Sub-Consciousness is a greater marvel in itself than any that it explains,
and beats the spooks hollower than they are. Just consider the phenomena
of dreams, what things we do, what sights we see.

It is only the commonness of dreams that blinds us to the fact that they
are more marvellous than ghost-stories. Mr. Lang thinks the theory of
the sub-conscious self that uses our muscles for its own ends is "the most
startling thing ever offered to the public; and that it should be regarded
as true by a sceptic is staggering to our judicial faculties."

But why? Our noble selves--are they not already exposed to the indignity
of dreams? What matters another insult? We need not be greatly put out
if Sub-Consciousness is busy in the day-time too.

And what about Somnambulism? What about musical or literary creation?

Are not our ideas made for us in the kitchen of our Sub-Consciousness?

Our Consciousness is only a small part of ourselves. What produced De
Quincey's opium dreams was certainly not Consciousness. I can see
visions, myself, without opium. In certain excited states of the
brain I can travel in my chair, or bed, perfectly awake, through an
endless and variegated series of scenes--domestic interiors with people
talking or eating or playing cards, battle-fields with glittering
phalanxes, beautiful tossing seas, gorgeous forests, melancholy
hospitals, busy newspaper offices, etc., etc.

These are almost entirely detached from my will, and the chief interest of
the spectacle is the unexpectedness of its episodes. The scenes and the
people have all the concreteness and detail of actuality, although I never
forget that I am observing my own hallucinations.

Just fancy what ghosts I could see in the dark if I lost my central control
and let my Sub-Consciousness get the upper hand!

Sociologists say, the seeing of dead people in dreams gave rise to the
idea of ghosts.

I would suggest that the same process as that of dreaming gives rise to the
ghosts themselves. Great is the Sub-Consciousness! Who shall say what it
does not contain, either _in esse_ or _in posse!_ Till we have exhausted
the Sub-Consciousness let us not talk of spooks.

Two things alone remain to be considered. One is how the Planchette or
the table is able to read cards placed face downwards upon it; the
second is, is telepathy or thought-transference a possibility? As to the
first point I have never yet been able to satisfy myself whether the
results are more than Chance would account for; for Chance has
strange vagaries--themselves part of the doctrine of Chances--and
in order to decide, one would have to make a far more extended
induction than I have had time for.

But if the mathematical probabilities are really exceeded, one would be
driven to the suspicion that there resides in the Sub-Consciousness
a sense of which we are unaware, perhaps an extra way of perceiving
by the tips of the fingers, which may be either a new embryonic
sense, not yet developed by the struggle for existence, or the
rudimentary survival of an old sense eliminated in the struggle,
perhaps a relic from those primeval homogeneous organisms in which
every part of the body did every kind of work.

After all, the senses are all developments of the sense of touch. This
suspicion is strengthened by the fact that the correct card is
often given at the first trial, and not after, as if this unused
sense were soon exhausted.

By the way, though the "spirits" mostly failed to tell a card placed face
down, and unknown to any one in the room, they were invariably
successful when it was placed face up: a sufficient proof--is it not?

--that there could be nothing in the replies which was not already in some
one's mind.

With regard to the question of telepathy, though I am tempted to believe in
it, I have not yet met with any convincing instance of it.
Thought-reading _à la_ Stuart Cumberland almost any one could do
who practised it.

The thought-reader merely takes the place of the table as a receiver of
muscular vibrations.

What tempts me to believe in the transfer of thought without physical
connection is that, given telepathy, all the mysterious phenomena that
have persisted in popular belief through the centuries could be swept
away at one fell swoop. By telepathy, working mainly through the
Sub-Consciousness, I will explain you Clairvoyance (that is, not
the mere seeing of pictures, which is a phenomenon akin to dreaming,
but the vision of other people's Sub-Consciousnesses), ghosts,
witchcraft, possession, wraiths, Mahatmas, astral bodies, etc., etc.

But it is rather absurd to call in a new mystery to explain what
may not even be facts.

And so, till I am convinced either of ghosts or of telepathy, I must
accord an impartial incredulousness to both. _Credat Christianus_,
F. W. Myers or W. T.
Stead!

For I gather that the Psychical Society assert that they _must_ exist.
But as yet--_je n'en vois pas la nécessité_.

If it is indeed possible to telegraph without fees and to put a
psychical girdle round the earth in twenty seconds, by all means let
the noses of those extortionate cable companies be put out of joint.

To me it is just as wonderful that mind can communicate with mind by letter
or even by speech.

One more puzzle adds no light to our darkness. And as for ghosts, I
have more than a lurking sympathy with the farrier in "Silas Marner."

"'If ghos'es want me to believe in 'em, let 'em leave off skulking i' the
dark and i' lone places--let 'em come where there's company and candles!'

"'As if ghos'es 'u'd want to be believed in by anybody so ignorant!'
said Mr. Macey, in deep disgust at the farrier's crass incompetence
to apprehend the conditions of ghostly phenomena."
And supposing "ghos'es" do exist--the moment the Supernatural is attested
and classified it becomes as natural as anything else. Such spooks
would add nothing to the dignity and sanctity of the scheme of creation,
and are no friends to religion. The world would only be made to look more
ridiculous if our deceased friends really rapped tables and pulled off
bedclothes, as Miss Florence Marryat's do. Mrs. Besant (who up to
the moment of going to press is still a Theosophist), in her latest
reading of the riddle of this painful earth, does but explain
_obscurum per obscurius_.

Where is the point of a progression through stages, if there is no
continuous consciousness?

What does it matter if I am not myself, but somebody else in his fifth
plane or her nineteenth incarnation?
Decidedly it is better to bear the religions we have, than fly to others
that we know not of. If Mr. F. W. Myers hears that some ill-trained
observers have seen ghosts, he becomes Dantesque and dithyrambic about "the
love that rules the world and all the stars." For my part, I fail to draw
the moral. I am content to look nearer home--at coal-heavers and
costermongers, poets and engineers--and to found my theory of life on
less deniable data. A fig for your ghosts! What! Here have I been living
and working and thinking nigh half a lifetime, and only now these gentry
should deign to give me cognisance of their existence.

Dame Nature would have indeed treated me scurvily had she reduced me to
such absurd oracles. The phenomena seem so rare and so irregular,
the vast majority of mankind having to go through life only afraid of ghosts,
but never seeing them, that no general law of posthumous existence could
be based on these obscure and erratic accidents. There may be only a
survival of the fittest.

It is not in the aberrations, but in the constant factors of human life that
we must seek for light, and the attitude of these smellers after immortality
is precisely that of the mediaevals who sought for the workings of divinity
in eccentric variations from its own habits, till miracles became so
commonplace that, as Charles Reade deliciously sums it up, a man in "The
Cloister and the Hearth" could reply to his fellow, who was anxious to
know why the market-place was black with groups, "Ye born fool! it
is only a miracle." If I am to seek for "intimations of immortality," let
me find them not in the haphazard freaks of disembodied intelligence,
but where Wordsworth found them, and where Mr.

Myers was once content to find them, in
Those obstinate questionings Of sense and outward things, Fallings from
us, vanishings!
Blank misgivings of a creature Moving about in worlds not realised,
High instincts before which our mortal nature Did tremble like a
guilty thing surprised.

If Moses came to London he would be very disgusted with Mr. Stead and
the correspondents of "Borderland" who collect "facts" for him.

For that supremely sane and sage legislator made one clean sweep of all the
festering superstitions that fascinate the silly and the sentimental
to-day as much as they did three thousand years ago. Mr. Stead is a
Puritan, and the Old Testament should be his impregnable rock. Yet Deuteronomy
is most definite about "Julia." "There shall not be found with thee ... a
consulter with a familiar spirit. For whosoever doeth these things is
an abomination unto the Lord." His organisation of research is a delusion;
science is not to be thus syndicated. The ordinary observer has no
idea of scientific sifting, and in ten minutes I exposed a gentleman who
impressed a large London club as "the most wonderful thought-reader
in Europe."
"Nature has many methods of producing the same effect," says Henry James's
greater brother. "She may make our ears ring by the sound of a bell, or by
a dose of quinine; make us see yellow by spreading a field of buttercups
before our eyes, or by mixing a little Santonine powder with our food."
Probably not ten per cent. of the correspondents of "orderland" are aware
of the existence of such "subjective sensations," or realize, despite
their nightly experience of dreams, that it does not take an actual
external object to give you the sensation of something outside yourself.
And passing optical illusions may have all the substantiality of ghosts.
When Benvenuto Cellini went to consult a wizard, as he relates in his
"Memoirs," countless spirits were raised for his behoof, dancing amid
the voluminous smoke of a kindled fire.

He actually _saw_ them: it was a splendid case for "Borderland."

Yet the probabilities are that the cunning magician merely projected
magic-lantern pictures on the background of the vapour. My brother woke
up one morning, and accidentally directing his eyes to the ceiling, beheld
there a couple of monsters--uncouth, amorphous creatures with ramifying
conformations and deep purple veins. After a few moments they passed
away; but the next morning, lo! they were there again, and the next, and
the next, till at last, in alarm, off he goes to a specialist in eyes
and unfolds his tale of woe. Is he, perhaps, going blind? "So you've
discovered them at last!" laughs the eminent oculist. "These things are
Purkinje's Figures--the shadows of the network of blood-vessels of
the retina microscopically magnified on the ceiling:
everybody ought to see them--it's a sign the eye is a good working lens.
But they don't notice them except by accident, when the light slants
sideways, and when there's a specially good background for them to be
projected and magnified upon." And, taking him into his mystic chamber,
and reconstituting the conditions, "Look!" says he, "there are your old
friends again!" And there they were, sure enough, in all their amorphous
horror. It is, in fact, not so much the actual external object that
determines our perception, as attention or inattention; and with wise
unconsciousness we ignore all that it is not necessary for us to see at
the moment. If our organism were always in perfect health, if our
senses were not deceivers ever, if we did not dream as solid a world as
that which we inhabit by day, then, indeed, a single appearance of a
ghost would settle the question; but as things are, our own eyes are just
what we mustn't believe.

As Helmholtz pointed out, we ought to see everything double, except the few
objects in the centre of vision; and as a matter of fact we do get
double images, but the prejudiced intelligence perceives them as one.
The drunken man is thus your only true seer. Genius, which has always
been suspected of affinity with drunkenness, is really a faculty for
seeing abnormally--that is to say, veraciously. Andrew Lang, who thinks
that all children have genius, is thus partially justified; for till they
have been taught to see conventionally, they see with fresh insight.
Hence the awkwardness of their questions. Mr. Bernard Shaw recently
wrote an article on "How to Become a Genius," but he omitted to
supply the recipe.

It is simply this: see what you do see, and not what everybody tells
you you see. To think what everybody says is to be a Philistine, and
to say what everybody thinks is to be a genius.

  Every healthy eye sees Purkinje's Figures
  when the conditions are present; but only a
  rare eye perceives them consciously. That is the
  eye of genius, but the Philistines cry,
  "Disease!

Degeneration!"

XVIII
SOCIETIES TO FOUND
I have noted in my Sancho Panza moments a number of deficiencies
in the commonweal which can only be remedied--in our modern manner--by
societies.

Let me start with a few of the most needed.

1. SOCIETY FOR PROVIDING NEW OATHS
The present currency is badly worn and was always nasty.

Swear-words are a necessity. They are the safety-valves of the soul.
Why not have them nice and innocent--the kind of oath a girl can
use to her mother?

It is unfair men should monopolise the bad language.

I wonder the Women's Rights women have not sworn about it. I have already
suggested that Wellington's "twopenny damn" be replaced by "I don't care a
double-blank domino." This gives a compound or twopenny sensation of the
unspeakable, combined with absolute innocuity, like a vegetarian chop or a
temperance champagne.

A milder form (the penny plain) would be "a blank cheque." The society
ought to offer prizes for the best suggestions.

2.

SOCIETY FOR PROMOTING READINGS AMONG REVIEWERS
It is a notorious fact that critics are the most ill-read class in the
community.

There are few occupations so laborious, exhaustive, and inadequately
remunerated, as reviewing; and who can wonder if the wretched
reviewer never finds time to read a book from one week's end to the
other.

It is a cruel anomaly that men, some of whom may have souls as much
as we have, should be shut out from all the pleasures of literature,
and all the possibilities of self-culture that books contain.

The poor critic goes to his grave, picking up a smattering of
cant phrases that are in the air--"Zolaism,"--"Ibsenites,"
"Décadents," "Symbolism," "the new humour," "the strong-man poetry,"
and what not--but to become acquainted at first hand with the meaning
or meaninglessness of these phrases is denied him by the hard
conditions of his life.

Publishers would greatly help the proposed society by sending out books
cut.

3. SOCIETY FOR THE SUPPRESSION OF CELEBRITIES
"Mankind's available stock of admiration is not large enough for
all the demands made upon it," wrote Professor Bain, with the one
flash of humour I have noticed in his big treatises.

If, as Wordsworth contends,
We live by Admiration, Hope, and Love,

a certain number of objects of admiration is indispensable.

But the surplusage of celebrities in this age is simply overwhelming.
Celebrity is cheap to-day. You may arrive at it by a million avenues. It
is almost impossible to keep your name out of the papers. Culture is so
catholic that celebrities who in the old days would have been monopolised
by esoteric cliques are common property. The paleographer and the
coleopterist claim a share of our admiration equally with the serpentine
dancer and the record-breaking cyclist, and the judicious editor prints
their "interviews" at equal length. We have an impartial acquaintance with
the tastes and views of cardinals and comic singers; and the future
of the papacy is given almost as much space as Little Tich's talent for
water-colour, and his fondness for the 'cello and his baby. Moreover,
that coil of cable which makes the whole world kin has burdened us with
the celebrities of the universe. When to these are added the celebrities
of the past, of every period, country, and variety, the brain reels.
Too many cooks spoil the broth, and too many celebrities numb our
faculty of wonder.

The vivid feeling that is possible when heroes are few fades into a
faint reflection of emotion. The celebrity's name calls up not admiration,
but only a shadowy consciousness that admiration is due. We never pause to
get the emotion. I am afraid the first proceeding of the society
will have to be the suppression of the illustrated weeklies, which
manufacture celebrities artificially to fill up their pages, and,
in order to have pretty pictures, give every actress that makes a
little hit a prominence which Shakespeare did not deserve.

If there is no celebrity of the week it is necessary to create one, is the
editorial motto. If a man is a celebrity you interview him, and if you
interview him he is a celebrity.

You will not believe me (though I don't care a double-blank domino if you
don't, for it is true) when I tell you that an opposition society already
exists--a society for the manufacture of celebrities. Self-puffery has
always gone on in a sporadic fashion, most people sending their
own puffs to the papers, and rolling their own logs, on the principle
that if you want a thing done well you must do it yourself.

But the idea of the society is the organisation of self-puffery. It is done
through an association which undertakes (for a fee) to insert anything
you choose to send it about yourself in a hundred native papers, and a
hundred Colonial, Indian, and American papers, as well as to get special
articles written thereon, and to organise press receptions, luncheons,
journeys, dinners, etc., etc. _O tempora! O mores!_ What an exposure
of the lower journalism!

Oh the crush of celebrities there will be when the society has been at
work a few years!

4. THE CHARITY OF CHARITIES
The begging-letters and circulars are enough to light your fires the whole
year, and it is a pity they are not sent to the poor, to whom they
would be of more value.

Still, not to have the worry of receiving and discriminating among these
appeals is another of the many compensations of poverty. There are a
thousand varieties of Charity (some beginning at a Home and others going
abroad), and the most munificent can support only a few, and perhaps will
select the wrong few. And most of these Charities are struggling along
painfully, their resources taxed to the utmost by the severe winter and
the coal strike; many can scarcely make both ends meet.
They remained firm friends
always; and many years afterward, when he had become one of the most
distinguished bishops on the bench, he was able, from the knowledge and
appreciation of her character which he had gained in these early days, to
do her signal service, and save her from much stupid misrepresentation.

And last, among her friends, although one of the greatest, was Mr. Austin
B. Price. Evadne owed this kind, large-hearted, chivalrous gentleman much
gratitude, and repaid him with much affection. He was really the first to
discover that there was anything remarkable about her; and it was to him
she also owed a considerable further development of her originally feeble
sense of humour.

Mr. Price's first impression that she was an uncommon character had been
confirmed by one of those rapid phrases of hers which contained in a few
words the embodiment of feelings familiar to a multitude of people who
have no power to express them. She delivered it the third time they met,
which happened to be at another of those afternoon dances, held on board
the flag ship on that occasion. Colonel Colquhoun liked her to show
herself although she did not dance in the afternoon, so she was there,
sitting out, and Mr. Price was courteously endeavouring to entertain her.

"It surprises me," he said, "as an American, to find so little inclination
in your free and enlightened country to do away with your--politically
speaking--useless and extremely expensive Royal House."

"Well, you see," said Evadne, "we are deeply attached to our Royal House,
and we can well afford to keep it up."

It was this glimpse of the heart of the proud and patriotic little
aristocrat, true daughter of a nation great enough to disdain small
economies, and not accustomed to do without any luxury to which it is
attached, that appealed to Mr. Price, pleasing the pride of race with
which we contemplate any evidence of strength in our fellow-creatures,
whether it be strength of purpose or strength of passion, more than it
shocked his utilitarian prejudices.

When it was evident that Evadne had brought a good deal that was
disagreeable upon herself by her action in the matter of the Clarences,
old Mrs. Beale came to her one day in all kindliness to tell her the
private opinion of the friends who had stood by her loyally in public.

"I am sure you did it with the best motive, my dear, and it was bravely
done," the old lady said, patting her hand; "but be advised by those who
know the world, and have had more experience than you have had. Don't
interfere again. Interference does no good; and people will say such
things if you do! They will make you pay for your disinterestedness."

"But it seems to me that the question is not _Shall I have to pay?_
but _Am I not bound to pay?_" Evadne rejoined. "Neglecting to do what
is, to me, obviously the right thing, and making no endeavour but such as
is sure to be applauded--working in the hope of a reward, in fact, seems
to me to be a terribly old-fashioned idea, miserable remnant of the
bribery and corruption of the Dark Ages, when the people were kept in such
dense ignorance that they could be treated like children, and told if they
were good they should have this for a prize, but if they were bad they
should be punished."

"You are quite right, I am sure, my dear," rejoined Mrs. Beale; "but all
the same, I don't think I should interfere again, if I were you."

"It seems that I have not done the Clarences any good," Evadne murmured
one day to Mr. Price.

"Well, that was hardly to be expected," he answered--at which she raised
her eyebrows interrogatively. "Calumnies which attach themselves to a name
in a moment take a lifetime to remove, because such a large majority of
people prefer to think the worst of each other. The Clarences will have to
live down their own little difficulty. And what you have to consider now
is, not how little benefit they have derived from your brave defense of
them, but how many other people you may have saved from similar attacks. I
fancy it will be some time before people will venture to spread scandals
of the kind here in Malta again. You have taught them a lesson; you may be
sure of that; so don't be disheartened and lose sight of the final result
in consideration of immediate consequences. The hard part of teaching is
that the teacher himself seldom sees anything of the good he has done."

It was very evident at this time that Evadne's view of life was becoming
much too serious for her own good; and, perceiving this, Mr. Price let
fall some words one day in the course of conversation which she afterward
treasured in her heart to great advantage. "It is our duty to be happy,"
he said. "Every human being is entitled to a certain amount of pleasure in
life. But, in order to be happy, you must think of the world as a
mischievous big child; let your attitude be one of amused contempt so long
as you detect no vice in the mischief; once you do, however, if you have
the gift of language, use it, lash out unmercifully! And don't desist
because the creature howls at you. The louder it howls the more you may
congratulate yourself that you have touched it on the right spot, which is
sure to be tender."

But he did not limit his kindly attentions to the giving of good advice;
in fact, he very seldom gave advice at all; what he chiefly did was to
devise distractions for her which should take her out of herself; and one
of these was a children's party which he induced her to give at Christmas.

The party was to take place on Christmas Eve, and the whole of the day
before and far into the night the Colquhoun house was thronged with actors
rehearsing charades and tableaux, and officers painting and preparing
decorations, and putting them up. All were in the highest spirits; the
talk and laughter were incessant; the work was being done with a will, and
none of them looked as if they had ever had a sorrowful thought in their
lives--least of all Evadne, whose gaiety seemed the most spontaneous of
all.

Late at night she had come to the hall with nails for the decorators, and
was handing them up as they were wanted by those on the ladders. The men
were in their shirt sleeves, the most becoming dress that a gentleman ever
appears in; and during a pause she happened to notice Colonel Colquhoun,
who had stepped back to judge the effect of some drapery he was putting
up. Mr. Price was a little behind him, and two of the younger men, the
three making an excellent foil to Colonel Colquhoun. Evadne was struck by
the contrast. The outside aspect of the man still pleased her. There was
no doubt that he was a fine specimen of his species, a splendid animal to
look at; what a pity he should have had a regrettable past, the kind of
past, too, which can never be over and done with! A returned convict is
always a returned convict, and a vicious man reformed is not repaired by
the process. The stigma is in his blood.

Evadne sighed. She was too highly tempered, well-balanced a creature to be
the victim of any one passion, and least of all of that transient state of
feeling miscalled "Love." Physical attraction, moral repulsion: that was
what she was suffering from; and now involuntarily she sighed--a sigh of
rage for what might have been; and just at that moment, Colonel Colquhoun,
happening to look at her, found her eyes fixed on him with a strange
expression. Was there going to be a chance for him after all?

He did not understand Evadne. He had no conception of the human
possibility of anything so perfect as her self-control; and when she
showed no feeling, he took it for granted that it was because she had
none. But during the games next day he obtained a glimpse of her heart
which surprised him. She had paid a forfeit, and, in order to redeem it,
she was requested to state her favourite names, gentlemen's and ladies'.

"Barbara, Evelyn, Julia, Elizabeth, Pauline, Mary, Bertram, and Evrard,"
she answered instantly. "I do not know if I think them the most beautiful
names, but they are the ones that I love the best, and have always in my
mind."

Colonel Colquhoun's countenance set upon this. They were the names of her
brothers and sisters, whom she never mentioned to him by any chance, and
whom he had not imagined that she ever thought of; yet it seemed that they
were always in her mind! He had so little conception of the depth and
tenderness of her nature, or of her fidelity, that had he been required to
put his feelings on the subject into words before this revelation, he
would, without a moment's hesitation, have declared her to be cold, and
wanting in natural affection, a girl with "views," and no heart. But after
this, a few questions and a very little observation served to convince him
that she not only cared for her friends, especially her brothers and
sisters, but fretted for their companionship continually in secret, and
felt the separation all the more because her father's harsh prohibition
was still in force, and none of them were allowed to write to her, her
mother excepted, whose letters, however, came but rarely now, and were
always unsatisfactory. The truth was that the poor lady had relapsed into
slavery, and been nagged into an outward show of acquiescence in her
husband's original mandate which forbade her to correspond with her
recalcitrant daughter; and, in her attempts to conceal her relapse from
the latter, and at the same time to keep Mr. Frayling quiet under the
conviction that her submission was genuine, the style of her letters
suffered considerably, and their numbers tended always to diminish. But
the thing that touched Colonel Colquhoun was the care which Evadne had
taken to conceal her trouble from him, the fact that she had not allowed a
single complaint to escape her, or made a sign that might have worried him
by implying a reproach. He had his moments of good feeling, however, and
his kindly impulses too, being, as already asserted, anything but a
monster; and under the influence of one of them, he sat down and wrote a
sharp remonstrance to Mr. Frayling, which, however, only drew from that
gentleman an expression of his sincere admiration for his son-in-law's
generous disposition, and of his regret that a daughter of his should
behave so badly to one who could show himself so nobly forgiving, with a
reiteration of his determination, however, not to countenance her until
she should "come to her senses"--so that no actual good was done, although
doubtless Colonel Colquhoun himself was the better for acting on the
impulse.

It was about this time that he became aware of the fact that Evadne had
gradually formed a party of her own, and was making his house a centre of
attraction to all the best people in the place. He knew that such support
was an evidence of her strength, and would only confirm her in her
"views," especially when even those who had opposed her most bitterly at
first were caught intriguing to get into the Colquhoun house clique; but
naturally he was gratified by a position which reflected credit upon
himself; his respect for Evadne increased, and consequently they became,
if possible, better friends than ever.


CHAPTER XIII.


On the day following her children's party, Evadne went to see Edith. She
always went there when she felt brain-fagged and world-weary, and came
away refreshed. Edith's ignorance of life amazed and perplexed her. She
thought it foolish, and she thought it unsafe for a mature young woman to
know no more of the world than a child does, but still she shrank from
sharing the pain of her own knowledge with her, and had never had the
heart to say a word that might disturb her beautiful serenity. She showed
some selfishness in that. She could be a child in mind again with Edith,
and only with Edith, and it was really for her own pleasure that she
avoided all serious discussion with the latter, although she firmly
persuaded herself that it was entirely out of deference to Mrs. Beale's
wishes and prejudices.

She owed a great deal, as has already been said, to Mrs. Beale. When her
attitude began to attract attention and provoked criticism, the old lady
declined emphatically to hear a word against her from anybody, and so
supported her in public; while in private the influence of her sweet
old-fashioned womanliness was restraining in the way that Mrs. Orton Beg
had foreseen; it was a check upon Evadne, and prevented her from going too
far and fast at a time. Argument would not have hindered her; but when
Mrs. Beale was present, she often suppressed a fire-brand of a phrase,
because it would have wounded her.

As she went out that afternoon she met old Lord Groome on the doorstep,
just coming to call on her, and hesitated a moment between asking him in
or allowing him to accompany her as far as Mrs. Beale's, but decided on
the latter because she would get rid of him so much the sooner. Her
attitude toward him, however, was kindly and tolerant as a rule, and she
was even amused by his curious conceit. He was always ready to express
what he called an opinion on any subject, but more especially when it bore
reference to legislation and the government of peoples generally, for he
was comfortably confident that he had inherited the brain power necessary
for a legislator as well as a seat in the House of Lords and the position
of one--a pardonable error, surely, since it is so very common. Socially
he lived in a comfortable conception of the fitness of things that were
agreeable to him, morally he did not exist at all, religiously he
supported the Established Church, and politically he believed in every
antiquated error still extant, in which respect most of his friends
resembled him.

"Ah, and so you are going to see Miss Beale? That's right," he observed
patronisingly. "I like to see one young lady with her work in her hand
tripping in to sit and chat with another, and while away the long hours
till the gentlemen return. One can imagine all their little jests and
confidences. Young ladyhood is charming to contemplate."

The implication that a young lady has no great interest in life but in
"the return of the gentlemen," and that, while awaiting them, her pursuits
must of necessity be petty and trivial, both amused and provoked Evadne,
and she answered with a dry enigmatical, "Yes-s-s."

A few steps further on, they overtook that soft-voiced person of "singular
views," Mrs. Malcomson, from whom Lord Groome would have fled had he seen
her in time, for they detested each other cordially, and she never spared
him. She was strolling along alone with her eyes cast down, humming a
little tune to herself, and thinking. There was a tinge of colour in her
cheeks, for the air was fresh for Malta; her eyes were bright, her hair as
usual had broken from bondage into little brown curls, all crisp and
shining, on her forehead and neck, and her lips were parted as if they
only waited for an excuse to break into a smile. A healthier, pleasanter,
happier, handsomer young woman Lord Groome could not have wished to
encounter, and consequently his disapproval of those "absurd new-fangled
notions of hers" which were "an effectual bar, sir," as he said himself,
"the kind of thing that destroys a woman's charm, and makes it impossible
to get on with her," mounted to his forehead in a frown of perplexity.

"What are you so busy about?" Evadne asked her.

"My profession," she answered laconically.

"And what is that?" Lord Groome inquired, with that ponderous affectation
of playfulness which he believed to be acceptable to women.

"The Higher Education of Man," she rejoined, then darted down a side
street, laughing.

"I am afraid you are too intimate with that lady," Lord Groome observed
severely, "You must not allow yourself to be bitten by her revolutionary
ideas. She is a dangerous person."

"Not 'revo'--but evolutionary," Evadne answered, smiling. "Yes. Mrs.
Malcomson has taught me a great deal. She is a very remarkable person. The
world will hear more of her, I am sure, and be all the better for her
passage through it. But here we are. Thank you for accompanying me. What a
hot afternoon! Good-bye!"

She shook hands with him, then opened the door and walked in, leaving him
outside.

He felt the dismissal somewhat summary, but shrugged his shoulders
philosophically and walked on, reflecting, _à propos_ of Mrs.
Malcomson: "That's just the way with women! When they begin to have ideas
they spread them everywhere, and all the other women in the neighbourhood
catch them, and are spoiled by them."

Evadne's spirits had risen in the open air, but the moment she found
herself alone a reaction set in.

The hall was dark and cool, and she stopped there, thinking--Oh, the
dissatisfaction of it all!

There were no servants about, and the house seemed curiously still. She
heard the ripple of running water from an unseen fountain somewhere, and
the intermittent murmur of voices in a room close by, but there is a
silence that broods above such sounds, and this it was that Evadne felt.

Close to where she stood was a divan with some tall foliage plants behind
it, and she sat down there, and, leaning forward with her arms resting on
her knees, began listlessly to trace out the pattern of the pavement with
the point of her parasol. She had no notion why she was lingering there
alone, when she had come out for the sole purpose of not being alone; but
the will to do anything else had suddenly forsaken her. Her mind, however,
had become curiously active all at once, in a jerky, disconnected sort of
way.

"Lord Groome--thank Heaven for having got rid of him so easily! I was
afraid it would be more difficult. Poor foolish old man! Yes. It is
ridiculous that the destinies of nations should hang on the size of one
man's liver. Where did I hear that now? It seems as old--old--as the
iniquity itself. Subjects get into the air--I heard someone say that too,
by-the-way--here--soon after I came out. Who was it? Oh--the dance on the
_Abomination_. Mrs. Malcomson and Mr. Price. _He_ said subjects
were diseases which got into the air; _she_ said they were more like
perfumes. Now, _I_ should not have compared them with either--"

The door of the room where the voices had been murmuring intermittently
opened at that moment, and Edith came out, followed by Menteith.

It was a vision which Evadne never forgot.

Edith was dressed in ivory white, and wore a brooch of turquoise and
diamonds at her throat, a buckle of the same at her waist, and a very
handsome ring, also of turquoise and diamonds, on the third finger of her
left hand. Evadne took the ornaments in at a glance. She had seen all that
Edith had hitherto possessed, and these were new; but she did not for a
moment attach any significance to the fact. It was Edith's radiant face
that riveted her attention. A bright flush flickered on her delicate
cheek, deepening or fading at every breath; her large eyes floated in
light; even the bright strands of her yellow hair shone with unusual
lustre; her step was so buoyant she scarcely seemed to touch the ground at
all; she was all shy smiles; and as she came, with her slender white right
hand she played with the new ring she wore on her left, fingering it
nervously. But anyone more ecstatically happy than she seemed it is
impossible to imagine. Menteith could not take his eyes off her. He seemed
to gloat over every item of her appearance.

"Oh, here is Evadne!" she exclaimed in a voice of welcome, running up to
the latter and kissing her with peculiar tenderness. Then she turned and
looked up at Menteith, then back again at Evadne, wanting to say
something, but not liking to.

With a start of surprise, Evadne awoke to the significance of all this,
and she knew, too, what was expected of her; but she could not say, "I
congratulate you!" try as she would. "I will wait for you in the drawing
room," was all she was able to gasp, and she hastened off in that
direction as she spoke.

"How can you care so much for that cold, unsympathetic woman?" Menteith
exclaimed.

"She is not cold and unsympathetic," Edith rejoined emphatically. "I am
afraid there is something wrong. I must go and see what it is. O Mosley! I
feel all chilled! It is a bad omen!"

"This is a bad damp hall," he answered, laughing at her, "you are too
sensitive to changes of temperature."

It seemed so really, for her colour had faded, and she had not recovered
it when she appeared in the drawing room.

Evadne was standing in the middle of the room alone, waiting for her.

"Edith! You are not going to marry that dreadful man?" she exclaimed.

Edith stopped short, astonished.

"_Dreadful man_!" she gasped. "Yon must be mad, Evadne!"

Mrs. Beale came into the room just as Edith uttered these words, and
overheard them. She had been on the point of happy smiles and tears,
expecting kind congratulations, but at the tone of Edith's voice almost
more than at what she had said, and at the sight of the two girls standing
a little apart looking into each other's faces in alarm and horror, her
own countenance changed, and an expression of blank inquiry succeeded the
smiles, and dried the tears.

"Oh, Mrs. Beale!" Evadne entreated; "you are not going to let Edith marry
that dreadful man!"

"Mother! she will keep saying that!" Edith exclaimed.

"My dear child, what _do_ you mean?" Mrs. Beale said gently to
Evadne, taking her hand.

"I mean that he is bad--thoroughly bad," said Evadne.

"Why! Now tell me, what do you know about him?" the old lady asked,
leading Evadne to a sofa, and making her sit down beside her upon it. Her
manner was always excessively soothing, and the first heat of Evadne's
indignation began to subside as she came under the influence of it.

"I don't know anything about him," she answered confusedly; "but I don't
like the way he looks at me!"

"Oh, come, now! that is childish!" Mrs. Beale said, smiling.

The music of the streets will become a joy instead of a terror, and English
performers will find a new market. See paterfamilias prick up his ears as
the distant strains of national music impinge upon his tympanum,
see his heart heaving his shirt-front with patriotic ardour, while, with
a joyous cry "The Collectors are coming, hurrah, hurrah!" he
rushes to his cheque-book as the soldier rushes to arms.

Is he not serving his country as much as the soldier, and without
pay--or even discount?

Nay, why should the idea of patriotic duty be so emphatically
connected with the shedding of blood, and all the pomp and pageantry reserved
for the profession of Destruction?

Why should not the lifeboat be launched, or the coal dug, or the
drain-pipe laid, or the taxes paid, to a musical accompaniment, and
under the shadow of the national flag?

Great is the power of the Symbol: for a few inches of rag at
elevenpence three-farthings a yard (warranted not to shrink) men will
give their lives.

And greater still is the power of music.

Dear to the London housemaid, The fife of fusilier, And to the Cockney
urchin The drum of Booth is dear; Sweet sounds the barrel-organ Where'er
the cits parade; But the dearest of all music The Tax-Collectors
played.

You will be glad to hear that scarcely had this grumble appeared
in print when I saw a procession that made me think Birnam wood had
come to Dunsinane.

Soon either pavement was planted with ready-made trees, all a-blowing and
a-growing. If it had happened in the night, I should have rubbed my
eyes and imagined some good genius had transported me to the Boulevards.
I hastened to place a little _guéridon_ outside the garden
gate, and to decorate it with glasses of absinthe and vermouth; but a
gendarme came along and asked me to move on.

X
OPINIONS OF THE YOUNG FOGEY
When I first met the Young Fogey I thought him very brilliant. His
philosophical pose, too, of combining the caution of age with the
daring of youth was fascinating. "I have evolved," he used to say. "Once I
would not attach sanctity to ideas because they were old: now I
attach no sanctity to ideas because they are new."

But I soon discovered that the Young Fogey was one of that large class
of persons who do not evolve but revolve, whose brilliancy is that
of the fixed star.

They give out arrestive thoughts, and you are vastly impressed, but
on longer acquaintance, or on returning to them after an interval,
you find that it is they who have been arrested by their thoughts.

Such persons do not last you more than one or two years: they require a
succession of new audiences to keep up their reputation, like a
witty play, which all the world goes to see in turn, but which it would
be deucedly dull to see night after night, year in, year out. The cleverest
of them know this need of new ears, and of making provincial and
foreign tours when they have exhausted London.

But when the Young Fogey chanced upon me drinking lager beer at the
Austrian Derby, during a tedious interval between the races, he was
probably confused by the distance from Piccadilly into a sense of originality,
and perceiving a couple of books on my table:
"What!

do you _read_ the books you review?" he asked in feigned astonishment;
adding, with an impromptu air, "I always _write_ the books _I_ review.
Criticism of other people is waste of time. An artist who is worth his
salt knows his value better than anybody else; and an artist who is not
worth his salt is not worth your criticism, and will learn nothing
from it in any case. There is immeasurably too much book-making, as it
is."
"But criticism tends to keep down book-making," I observed meekly.

"Quite the contrary. Criticism encourages it. Most books are not
read.
Who can possibly read ninety-nine of the worst hundred books published
every week? If they were not even criticised, the writers would shut
up their inkstands. Publicity is their aim, but publication does not supply
it. Most publishers are rather privateers. It is the critics who supply
fame to fools.

It's even worse with plays. Why should every trumpery farce that can
get itself badly produced by a moneyless manager who decamps the
day after, be allotted a space in every morning, evening, and weekly
newspaper, Fame blowing simultaneously a hundred trumps?

Evadne rose also with a heavy sigh. "I know how you feel," she said to
Edith drearily. "You glow and are glad from morning till night. You have a
great yearning here," she clasped her hands to her breast. "You find a new
delight in music, a new beauty in flowers; unaccountable joy in the warmth
and brightness of the sun, and rapture not to be contained in the quiet
moonlight. You despise yourself, and think your lover worthy of adoration.
The consciousness of him never leaves you even in your sleep. He is your
last thought at night, your first in the morning. Even when he is away
from you, you do not feel separated from him as you do from other people,
for a sense of his presence remains with you, and you flatter yourself
that your spirits mingle when your bodies are apart. You think, too, that
the source of all this ecstasy is holy because it is pleasurable; you
imagine it will last forever!"

Edith stared at her. That Evadne should know the entrancement of love
herself so exactly, and not reverence it as holy, amazed her.

"And you call it love," Evadne added, as if she had read her thought; "but
it is not love. The threshold of love and hate adjoin, and it--this
feeling--stands midway between them, an introduction to either. It is
always a question, as marriages are now made, whether, when passion has
had time to cool, husband and wife will love or detest each other. But
what is the use of talking?" she exclaimed. "You will not heed me. It is
too late now." She turned and walked toward the door; but Edith caught her
by the arm and stopped her.

"Evadne! Do not go like this!" she entreated, with a sob in her voice.
"Wish me well at least!"

"I _do_ wish you well," said Evadne. "With what other motive could I
have said so much? But I ask again, what is the use? Your parents are
content to let you marry a man of whose private life they have no
knowledge whatever--"

Mrs. Beale interrupted her: "This is not quite the case," she confessed.
"We _do_ know that there have been errors; but all that is over now,
and it would be wicked of us not to believe the best, and hope for the
best. A young man in his position has great temptations--"

"And if he succumbs, he is pardoned because of his position!"

"Oh, come, now, Evadne!" Mrs. Beale remonstrated, "You cannot think that
such a consideration affects our decision. His position and property are
very nice in themselves, and indeed all that we care about in that way for
Edith, but we were not thinking about either when we gave our consent. It
is the dear fellow himself that we want--"

"I can make him all that he ought to be! I know I can!" Edith exclaimed
fervently, clasping her hands, and looking up, with bright eyes full of
confidence and passion.

Evadne said not another word, but kissed them both, and left the house.

"Mother! how strange Evadne is!" Edith ejaculated.

Mrs. Beale shook her head several times. "I heard that she had some
trouble at the outset of her own married life," she said. "I don't know
what it was; but doubtless it accounts for her manner to-day. Don't think
about it, however. She will recover her right-mindedness as she grows
older. A little shock upsets a girl's judgment very often; but she is so
clever and conscientious, she will certainly get over it. But you are
quite agitated yourself, dear. Come! think no more about what she said!
Her own marriage quite disproves all her arguments, for Colonel Colquhoun
was notoriously just the kind of man she would have us believe Mosley is,
and see what she has done for him, and how well they get on together!
Think no more about it, dear child, but come out with me. The air will
tranquillize us both."

On her way home, Evadne overtook Mr. St. John. He was walking slowly with
his chin on his chest, looking down, and his whole demeanour was
expressive of deep dejection.

He looked up with a start when Evadne overtook him, and their eyes met.

"You have heard?" she said.

He made an affirmative gesture.

"I never--never dreamt of such a thing," she went on. "I thought--I hoped--
pardon me, but I hoped it would be you. She liked you so much. I know she
did."

"But not enough, for she refused me," he answered gently. "But doubtless
it is all for the best. _His_ ways are not our ways, you know, and we
suffer because we are too proud to resign ourselves to manifestations of
His wisdom, which are beyond our comprehension. When you came up, I was
feeling as if I could never say 'Thy will be done' with my whole heart,
fervently, in this matter, but since you spoke to me, I think I can."

Evadne took his arm, and the gentle pressure of her hand upon it expressed
her heartfelt sympathy eloquently.

"If it had been anyone else, I thought at first--but, doubtless,
doubtless, it is all for the best!" he added; and then he raised his head,
and changed the subject bravely.

But Evadne did not hear what he was saying, for suddenly she found herself
on the cliffs at home, and it was a scented summer morning; the air was
balmy, the sun was shining, the little waves rippled up over the sand, the
birds were singing, and the dew-drops hung on the yellow gorse; but that
joy in her own being which lent a charm to these was wanting, and the
songs seemed tuneless, the scent oppressive, the sea all sameness, the
land a waste, and the sun itself a glaring garish baldness of light, that
accentuated her own disconsolation, the length of a life that is not worth
living, and the size of a world which contains no corner of comfort in all
its pitiless expanse. And it was the same story too. She was witnessing
the same mystery of love rejected--the same worthiness for the same
unworthiness; the same fine discipline of resignation, which made the pain
of it endurable; listening to the same old pulpit platitudes even, which
have such force of soothing when reverently expressed. She and Edith were
very different types of girlhood, and it seemed a strange coincidence that
their opportunities should have been identical nevertheless; but not
singular that their action should have been the same, because the force of
nature which controlled them is a matter of constitution more than of
character, and subject only to a training which neither of them had
received, and without which, instead of ruling, they are ruled
erratically.

Evadne had quite forgotten by this time all her first fine feelings on the
subject of a celibate priesthood. She now held that the laws of nature are
the laws of God, and marriage is a law of nature which there is no
evidence that God has ever rescinded.

Evadne had not heard what Mr. St. John was saying, and she did not care to
hear; she knew that it was not relevant to anything which either of them
had in their minds; but still held his arm, and looked up at him
sympathetically when he paused for a reply, and at that moment Colonel
Colquhoun, accompanied by Sir Mosley Menteith, turned out of a side street
just behind them, and followed on in the same direction. When Menteith saw
the two walking so familiarly arm in arm, he glanced at Colonel Colquhoun
out of the comers of his eyes to see how he took it. But Colonel
Colquhoun's face remained serenely impassive.

"Easy!" he said. "We won't overtake them till we arrive at the house. I
expect he is seeing her home, and as Mrs. Colquhoun is only at her best
_tête-à-tête_, it would be a shame to deprive him of the small
recompense he will get for his trouble." He twisted his moustache and
continued to look at the pair thoughtfully when he had spoken, and
Menteith glanced at him again to see if he might not perchance be
concealing some secret annoyance under an affectation of easy
indifference, but there was not a trace of anything of the kind apparent.

"There is no doubt that women _do_ cling to the clergy," was the
outcome of Colonel Colquhoun's reflections--"I mean metaphorically
speaking, of course," he hastened to add with a laugh, perceiving the
double construction that might be put on the remark in view of the
situation. "Now, there is only one fellow on the island that Evadne cares
for as much as she does for her friend there, I think she likes the other
better though."

"You mean yourself, of course," said Menteith.

"No, I don't mean myself, of course," Colonel Colquhoun answered, "Putting
myself out of the question. It is Price, I mean."

"That dried-up old chap?" Menteith exclaimed. "Well, he's pretty safe, I
should say! And I should never be jealous of a parson myself. Women always
treat them _de haut en bas_."

"I believe, sir, that Mrs. Colquhoun is perfectly 'safe' with anyone whom
she may choose for a friend," Colonel Colquhoun said with an emphasis
which made Menteith apologize immediately.

Colonel Colquhoun asked Evadne that evening what she thought of the
projected marriage.

"I think it detestable," she answered.

"Well, I think it a pity myself," he said. "She's such a nice looking girl
too."

Evadne turned to him with a flash of hope. "Can't you do something?" she
exclaimed. "Can't you prevent it?"

"Absolutely impossible," he answered. "And I beg as a favour to myself
that you won't try."

"I have done my best already," she said.

"Then you have made your friends enemies for life," he declared. "A girl
like that won't give up a man she loves even for such considerations as
have made you indifferent to my happiness--and welfare."

Evadne perceived the contradiction involved in commending Edith for doing
what he considered it a pity that she _should_ do; but she recognized
her own impotence also, and was silent. It was the system, the horrid
system that was to blame, and neither he, nor she, nor any of them.

Colonel Colquhoun ruminated for a little.

"It is rather curious," he finally observed, "that you should both have
shied at the parsons, seeing how very particular you are."

"Who told you we had both--refused a clergyman?" Evadne asked.

"Everybody in Malta knows that St. John proposed to Miss Beale," he
answered, "and your father told me about the offer you had. He remarked at
the time that girls will only have manly men, and that therefore we
soldiers get the pick of them."

Evadne was silent. She was thinking of something her father had once
remarked in her presence on the same subject: "I have observed," he had
said, in his pompous way, "that the clergy carry off all the nicest girls.
You will see some of the finest, who have money of their own too, marry
quite commonplace parsons. But the reason is obvious. It is their faith in
the superior moral probity of Churchmen which weighs with them."

The Scales went home the following week to prepare for the wedding, which
was to take place immediately. They both wrote to Evadne kindly before
they left, and she replied in the same tone, but she could not persuade
herself to see them again, nor did they wish it.


END OF BOOK II.


BOOK III.

DEVELOPMENT AND ARREST OF DEVELOPMENT.


_Fury_: Blood thou canst see, and fire; and canst hear groans;--
        Worse things, unheard, unseen, remain behind.

_Prometheus_: Worse?

_Fury_: In each human heart terror survives
        The ravin it has gorged. The loftiest fear
        All that they would disdain to think were true:
        Hypocrisy and Custom make their minds
        The fanes of many a worship now outworn.
        They dare not devise good for man's estate,
        And yet they know not that they do not dare.
        The good want power but to weep barren tears:
        The powerful goodness want,--worse need for them:
        The wise want love: and those who love want wisdom:
        And all best things are thus confused to ill.
        Many are strong and rich and would be just,
        But live among their suffering fellow-men
        As if none felt: they know not what they do.

--_Prometheus Unbound_


CHAPTER I.


Edith was married in the cathedral at Morningquest, and of course the
twins were present at the wedding. From what social gathering were they
ever excluded if they chose to be present? Mrs. Beale had not thought of
asking them at all, but Angelica intimated, in her royal way, that she
wished to be a bridesmaid, and Diavolo must be a page, and Lady Adeline
begged Mrs. Beale for Heaven's sake to arrange it so, lest worse should
come of it.

But the twins did not enjoy the occasion at all, for the truth was that
they were not as they had been. Angelica was rapidly outstripping Diavolo,
as was inevitable at that age. He was still a boy, but she was verging on
womanhood, and already had thoughts which did not appeal to him, and moods
which he could not comprehend, the consequence being continual quarrels
between them,--those quarrels in which people are hottest and bitterest,
not because of their hate, but because of their love for each other. There
is such agony in misunderstanding and blame when all has hitherto been
comprehension, approval, and sympathy. The shadow of approaching maturity,
which would separate them inevitably for the next few years, already
touched Angelica perceptibly; and, although to the onlookers they seemed
to treat each other as usual, both children felt that there was something
wrong, and their discomfort was all the greater because neither of them
could account for the change. Angelica had been for some time in her most
hoydenish, least human stage, during which she had given up hugging
Diavolo, and taken to butting him in the stomach instead. But she was
growing beyond that now, and was in fact just on the borderland, hovering
between two states: in the one of which she was a child, all nonsense and
mischievous tricks; and in the other a girl with tender impulses and
yearning senses seeking some satisfaction.

She and Diavolo had promised themselves some fun at Edith's wedding, but
when the morning came Angelica was moody and irritable, and Diavolo
watched her and waited in vain for a suggestion. When they were in the
cathedral, during the ceremony, she had a strange feeling that there was
something in it ail that specially concerned her, and she looked at Edith
and listened to the service intently, in an involuntary effort to obtain
some clue to her own sensations.

Diavolo, who was all sympathy when there was anything really wrong with
her, became alarmed.

"Does your stomach ache?" he whispered. (They were kneeling side by side.)

"No!" she answered shortly.

"Oh, then, I suppose there is something _morally_ wrong," he
observed, in a satisfied tone, as if he knew from experience that that was
a small thing compared with the other complaint.

They sat together at the wedding breakfast, but Angelica continued
silently observant.

Diavolo had brought a big boiled shrimp in his pocket.

It was black and of great age, and he managed to fasten it adroitly on the
shoulder of the lady who sat next him, so that its long antenna tickled
her neck, and provoked her attention to it.

Glancing down sideways, and catching a glimpse of black eyes and many
legs, she thought it was some horrid creature with a sting, and jumped up,
shrieking wildly, to everybody's consternation.

Angelica declared it was a stupid trick.

"Well, you put me up to it yourself," Diavolo grumbled.

"Did I?" she snapped. "Then I was wrong."

Somebody began to make a speech, which was all in praise of the lovely
bride; and Diavolo, listening to it, and remembering that he had wished to
marry her himself, became intensely sentimental. He recovered his shrimp,
and laying it out on the cloth before him gazed at it in a melancholy way.

"All the nice girls marry," he complained, thinking of Evadne.

"Well, what's that to you?" Angelica demanded, with a jealous flash.

"Only that I suppose you also will marry and leave me some day," he
readily responded. Diavolo was nothing if not courtly.

But Angelica knew him, and resented this attempt to impose upon her.

"I despise you!" she exclaimed; and then she turned to Mr. Kilroy of
Ilverthorpe, who was her neighbour on the right, and made great friends
with him to spite Diavolo; but the latter was engrossed in his breakfast
by that time, and took no notice.

When they got back to Hamilton House, Mr. Ellis asked her how she had
enjoyed the wedding.

"It made me feel _sick_," she said; and then she got a book, and
flinging herself down on a window seat, with her long legs straggling out
behind her and her face to the light, made a pretence of reading.

Diavolo hovered about her with a dismal face, trying to devise some method
of taking her out of herself.

"My ear does bother me," he said at last, sitting down beside her with his
back to the window, and his legs stretched straight out before him close
together. "I feel as if I could tear it off."

"No, don't; you might want it again!" Angelica retorted, and then, the
observation striking her as ludicrous, she looked up at him and grinned,
and so broke the ice.

Mr. Ellis was the first to notice signs of the impending change in
Angelica. Although she was over fifteen, she had no coquettish or womanly
ways, insisted on wearing her dresses up to her knees, expressed the
strongest objection to being grown-up and considered a young lady, and had
never been known to look at herself in the glass; but she began to be less
teasing and more sympathetic, and sometimes now, if the tutor were tired
or worried, she noticed it, and pulled Diavolo up for being a nuisance.

The day after the wedding, in the afternoon, Dr. Galbraith walked over
from Fountain Towers to Hamilton House, through the fields, and
encountered Lord Dawne in the porch. It was lovely summer weather.

"I am looking for the children," Lord Dawne said. "I have come over from
Morne with a message for them from their grandfather. Do you happen to
have seen them anywhere?"

"Yes, I have," Dr. Galbraith answered drily, but with a twinkle in his
eyes. "I discovered them just now in a field of mine--a hayfield--not that
they were making any pretence of hiding themselves, however," he hastened
to add, "for they were each sitting on the top of a separate haycock,
carrying on an animated discussion in tones as elevated as their position,
so that I heard them long before I saw them. They will end the discussion
by demolishing my haycocks, I suppose," he concluded resignedly.

"What was it all about?" Lord Dawne asked.

"Well, I believe they started with the vexed question of primogeniture,"
Dr. Galbraith replied; "but when I came up with them they were quarrelling
because they could not agree as to whether they were more their father's
or their mother's children. Angelica maintained the latter, for reasons
which she gave at the top of her voice with admirable accuracy. When I
appeared they both appealed to me to confirm their opinions, but I fled. I
am not so advanced as the Heavenly Twins."

Lord Dawne looked grave: "What will become of the child, Angelica?" he
said.

"Oh, you needn't be anxious about her," Dr. Galbraith replied, looking
full at him with sympathy and affection in his kind gray eyes. "She has no
vice in her whatever, and not a trace of hysteria. Her talk is mere
exuberance of intellect."

"I don't know," her uncle answered. "_Qui peut tout dire arrive à tout
faire_, you know."

"I find that falsified continually in my profession," Dr. Galbraith
rejoined. "It depends entirely as a rule upon how the thing is said, and
why. If it be a matter of inclination only, controlled by fear of the law
or public opinion which is expressed, the aphorism would hold, probably;
but language which is the outcome of moods or phases that are transient
makes no permanent mark upon the character."

Lord Dawne took Dr. Galbraith to the drawing room, where they found Lady
Adeline with Mr. Hamilton-Wells and the tutor. Mr. Ellis had been a great
comfort to Lady Adeline ever since he came to the house. She felt, she
said, that she should always owe him a deep debt of gratitude for his
patient care of her terrible children.

"You are just in time for tea, George," she said to Dr. Galbraith. "Dawne,
you had better wait here for the children. They won't be late this
afternoon, I am sure, because Mr. Kilroy of Ilverthorpe is here, and
Angelica likes him to talk to."

"Ah, now you do surprise me," said Dr. Galbraith, "for I should have
thought that Mr. Kilroy was the last person in the world to interest
Angelica."

"And so he is," Mr. Hamilton-Wells observed in his precisest way, "and she
does not profess to find him interesting. But what she says is that she
must talk, and he does for a target to talk at."

Lady Adeline looked anxiously at the door while her husband was speaking.
She was in terror lest Mr. Kilroy should come in and hear him, for Mr.
Hamilton-Wells had a habit of threshing his subject out, even when it was
obviously unfortunate, and would not allow himself to be interrupted by
anybody.

He made his favourite gesture with his hands when he had spoken, which
consisted in spreading his long white fingers out as if he wore lace
ruffles which were in the way, and was shaking them back a little. He had
a long cadaverous face, clean shaven; straight hair of suspicious
brownness, parted in the middle and plastered down on either side of his
head; and a general air of being one of his own Puritan ancestors who
should have appeared in black velvet and lace; and his punctilious manners
strengthened this impression. The one trinket he displayed was a ring,
which he wore on the forefinger of his right hand, a handsome intaglio
carved out of crimson coral. It seemed to be the only part of his natural
costume which had survived, and came into play continually.

Mr. Kilroy entered the room in time to hear the concluding remark, but
naturally did not take it to himself, and Lord Dawne, seeing his sister's
trepidation, came to the rescue by diverting the subject into another
channel.

They were all sitting round an open window, and just at that moment the
twins themselves appeared in sight, straggling up the drive in a deep
discourse, with their arms round each other's necks, and Angelica's dark
head resting against Diavolo's fair one.

"Harmony reigns among the heavenly bodies, apparently," said Dr.
Galbraith.

"The powers of darkness plotting evil, more likely," said their uncle
Dawne.

"Naughty children! What have they done with their hats?" Lady Adeline
exclaimed.

"Discovered some ingenious method of doing damage to my hay with them,
most probably," Dr. Galbraith observed.

They all leant forward, watching the children.

"Angelica is growing up," said Lord Dawne.

"She has always been the taller, stronger, and wickeder of the two, and
will remain so, I expect," said Dr. Galbraith.

"But how old is she now exactly?" Mr. Kilroy wished to know.

"Nearly sixteen," Lady Adeline answered. "But a very young sixteen in some
ways, I am thankful to say. And I believe we have you to thank, Mr. Ellis,
for keeping her so."

The tutor's strong but careworn face flushed sensitively; but he only
answered with a deprecating gesture.

"Then how old is Diavolo?" Mr. Kilroy pursued absently.

"About the same age," Mr. Hamilton-Wells replied, without moving a muscle
of his face.

Lady Adeline looked puzzled: "Of course they are the same age," she said,
as if the point could be disputed.

Mr. Kilroy woke up: "Oh, of course, of course!" he exclaimed with some
embarrassment.

The twins had gone round the house by this time, and presently Diavolo
appeared in the drawing room alone. His thick fair hair stood out round
his head like a rumpled mop: his face and hands were not immaculate, and
his clothes were creased; but he entered the room with the same courtly
yet diffident air and high-bred ease which distinguished his uncle Dawne,
whom he imitated as well as resembled in most things.

He took his seat beside him now, and remarked that it was a nice day, and--


But before he could finish the affable phrase, the door burst open from
without, and Angelica entered.

"Hollo! Are you all here?" she said. "How are you, Uncle Dawne?"

"I wish you would not be so impetuous," Diavolo remonstrated gently. "You
quite startle one."

"You _are_ a coon!" said Angelica.

"My dear child--" Lady Angeline began.

"Well, mamma, no matter _what_ I do, Diavolo grumps at me," Angelica
snapped.

"What expressions you use!" sighed Lady Adeline.

"For thee? Hast thou there one who--"
"There was one, my father's son, though we were of different mothers; and
in other days, so many years ago, he did great wrong to me, and not
to me alone,"--the grey head bowed in sorrow--"but to one dearer to me
than life. I hated him, and would have slain him, but the mind of Allah
is not the mind of man; and he escaped me. Then he was stricken with
leprosy, and was carried to the place from whence no leper returns. At
first my heart rejoiced; then, at last, I forgave him, Saadat--was
he not my father's son, and was the woman not gone to the bosom of
Allah, where is peace?

So I forgave and sorrowed for him--who shall say what miseries are those
which, minute to minute, day after day, and year upon year, repeat
themselves, till it is an endless flaying of the body and burning of the
soul!

Every year I send a message to him, and every year now this Christian
monk--there is no Sheikh-el-Islam yonder--brings back the written
message which he finds in the sand."

"And thee has had a message to-night?"

"The last that may come--God be praised, he goeth to his long home. It
was written in his last hour. There was no hope; he is gone.

And so, one more reason showeth why I should go where thou goest, Saadat."

Casting his eyes toward the figure by the acacia-tree, his face
clouded and he pondered anxiously, looking at David the while.

Twice he essayed to speak, but paused.

David's eyes followed his look. "What is it? Who is he--yonder?"
The other rose to his feet. "Come and see, Saadat," he replied.
"Seeing, thou wilt know what to do."

"Zaida--is it of Zaida?" David asked.

"The man will answer for himself, Saadat." Coming within a few feet of the
figure crouched upon the rock, Ebn Ezra paused and stretched out
a hand.

"A moment, Saadat. Dost thou not see, dost thou not recognise him?"

David intently studied the figure, which seemed unconscious of their
presence.

The shoulders were stooping and relaxed as though from great fatigue,
but David could see that the figure was that of a tall man. The head
was averted, but a rough beard covered the face, and, in the light of
the fire, one hand that clutched it showed long and skinny and yellow
and cruel. The hand fascinated David's eyes. Where had he seen it? It
flashed upon him--a hand clutching a robe, in a frenzy of fear, in the
court-yard of the blue tiles, in Kaid's Palace--Achmet the
Ropemaker!

He drew back a step.

"Achmet," he said in a low voice. The figure stirred, the hand dropped from
the beard and clutched the knee; but the head was not raised, and the
body remained crouching and listless.

"He escaped?" David said, turning to Ebn Ezra Bey.

"I know not by what means--a camel-driver bribed, perhaps, and a camel
left behind for him.

After the caravan had travelled a day's journey he joined it. None knew what
to do. He was not a leper, and he was armed."
"Leave him with me," said David.

Ebn Ezra hesitated. "He is armed; he was thy foe--"
"I am armed also," David answered enigmatically, and indicated by a
gesture that he wished to be left alone.

Ebn Ezra drew away towards the palm-tree, and stood at this distance watching
anxiously, for he knew what dark passions seize upon the Oriental--and
Achmet had many things for which to take vengeance.

David stood for a moment, pondering, his eyes upon the deserter. "God
greet thee as thou goest, and His goodness befriend thee," he said evenly.
There was silence, and no movement.

"Rise and speak," he added sternly. "Dost thou not hear? Rise, Achmet
Pasha!"
Achmet Pasha!

The head of the desolate wretch lifted, the eyes glared at David for an
instant, as though to see whether he was being mocked, and then
the spare figure stretched itself, and the outcast stood up.

The old lank straightness was gone, the shoulders were bent, the head
was thrust forward, as though the long habit of looking into dark places
had bowed it out of all manhood.

"May grass spring under thy footstep, Saadat," he said, in a thick voice,
and salaamed awkwardly--he had been so long absent from life's
formularies.

"What dost thou here, pasha?"

asked David formally. "Thy sentence had no limit."

"I could not die there," said the hollow voice, and the head sank
farther forward.

"Year after year I lived there, but I could not die among them.

I was no leper; I am no leper.

My penalty was my penalty, and I paid it to the full, piastre by piastre of
my body and my mind. It was not one death, it was death every hour,
every day I stayed. I had no mind.

I could not think.

Mummy-cloths were round my brain; but the fire burned underneath
and would not die.

There was the desert, but my limbs were like rushes.

I had no will, and I could not flee. I was chained to the evil place.
If I stayed it was death, if I went it was death."

"Thou art armed now," said David suggestively. Achmet laid a hand fiercely
upon a dagger under his robe. "I hid it.

I was afraid.

I could not die--my hand was like a withered leaf; it could not strike; my
heart poured out like water.

Once I struck a leper, that he might strike and kill me; but he lay
upon the ground and wept, for all his anger, which had been great,
died in him at last.

There was none other given to anger there. The leper has neither
anger, nor mirth, nor violence, nor peace. It is all the black silent
shame--and I was no leper."
"Why didst thou come? What is there but death for thee here, or anywhere
thou goest! Kaid's arm will find thee; a thousand hands wait to strike
thee."

"I could not die there--Dost thou think that I repent?"

he added with sudden fierceness. "Is it that which would make me repent?
Was I worse than thousands of others? I have come out to die--to fight
and die.
Aiwa, I have come to thee, whom I hated, because thou canst give me death
as I desire it. My mother was an Arab slave from Senaar, and she was got
by war, and all her people.

War and fighting were their portion--as they ate, as they drank and slept.
In the black years behind me among the Unclean, there was naught to
fight--could one fight the dead, and the agony of death, and the poison
of the agony! Life, it is done for me-- am I not accursed?

But to die fighting--ay, fighting for Egypt, since it must be, and
fighting for thee, since it must be; to strike, and strike, and
strike, and earn death!

Must the dog, because he is a dog, die in the slime? Shall he not be
driven from the village to die in the clean sand? Saadat, who will
see in me Achmet Pasha, who did with Egypt what he willed, and was swept
away by the besom in thy hand? Is there in me aught of that Achmet
that any should know?"

"None would know thee for that Achmet," answered David.

"I know, it matters not how--at last a letter found me, and the way of
escape--that thou goest again to the Soudan. There will be fighting
there--"

"Not by my will," interrupted David.

"Then by the will of Sheitan the accursed; but there will be
fighting-- am I not an Arab, do I not know?

Thou hast not conquered yet.

Bid me go where thou wilt, do what thou wilt, so that I may be among
the fighters, and in the battle forget what I have seen.

Since I am unclean, and am denied the bosom of Allah, shall I not go as a
warrior to Hell, where men will fear me? Speak, Saadat, canst thou deny
me this?"
Nothing of repentance, so far as he knew, moved the dark soul; but, like
some evil spirit, he would choose the way to his own doom, the place and
the manner of it: a sullen, cruel, evil being, unyielding in his evil,
unmoved by remorse--so far as he knew. Yet he would die fighting, and
for Egypt "and for thee, if it must be so. To strike, to strike, to strike,
and earn death!" What Achmet did not see, David saw, the glimmer of
light breaking through the cloud of shame and evil and doom. Yonder
in the Soudan more problems than one would be solved, more lives than
one be put to the extreme test.

He did not answer Achmet's question yet.
"Zaida--?" he said in a low voice. The pathos of her doom had been
a dark memory.

Achmet's voice dropped lower as he answered. "She lived till the day her
sister died. I never saw her face; but I was sent to bear each day to her
door the food she ate and a balass of water; and I did according
to my sentence.

Yet I heard her voice. And once, at last, the day she died, she spoke to
me, and said from inside the hut: 'Thy work is done, Achmet. Go in
peace.' And that night she lay down on her sister's grave, and in the
morning she was found dead upon it."
David's eyes were blinded with tears.

"It was too long," he said at last, as though to himself.

"That day," continued Achmet, "there fell ill with leprosy the Christian
priest from this place who had served in that black service so long; and
then a fire leapt up in me. Zaida was gone--I had brought food and a
balass of water to her door those many times; there was naught to do, since
she was gone--"
Suddenly David took a step nearer to him and looked into the sullen and
drooping eyes. "Thou shalt go with me, Achmet. I will do this unlawful
act for thee. At daybreak I will give thee orders. Thou shalt join me far
from here--if I go to the Soudan," he added, with a sudden remembrance
of his position; and he turned away slowly.

After a moment, with muttered words, Achmet sank down upon the stone again,
drew a cake of dourha from his inner robe, and began to eat.

The camel-boy had lighted a fire, and he sat beside it warming his hands
at the blaze and still singing to himself:

"The bed of my love I will sprinkle with attar of roses, The face of
my love I will touch with the balm With the balm of the tree from the
farthermost wood, From the wood without end, in the world without end.

My love holds the cup to my lips, and I drink of the cup, And the attar of
roses I sprinkle will soothe like the evening dew, And the balm will
be healing and sleep, and the cup I will drink, I will drink of the cup
my love holds to my lips--"
David stood listening.

What power was there in desert life that could make this poor camel-driver,
at the end of a long day of weariness and toil and little food and
drink, sing a song of content and cheerfulness?
The little needed, the little granted, and no thought beyond--save the
vision of one who waited in the hut by the onion-field. He gathered
himself together and tuned his mind to the scene through which he had
just passed, and then to the interview he would have with Kaid on the
morrow. A few hours ago he had seen no way out of it all--he had
had no real hope that Kaid would turn to him again; but the last two hours
had changed all that. Hope was alive in him. He had fought a desperate
fight with himself, and he had conquered. Then had come Achmet,
unrepentant, degraded still, but with the spirit of Something glowing--
Achmet to die for a cause, driven by that Something deep beneath the
degradation and the crime. He had hope, and, as the camel-driver's voice
died away, and he lay down with a sheep-skin over him and went instantly
to sleep, David drew to the fire and sat down beside it. Presently Ebn
Ezra came to urge him to go to bed, but he would not. He had slept, he said;
he had slept and rested, and the night was good--he would wait.

Then the other brought rugs and blankets, and gave David some, and lay
down beside the fire, and watched and waited for he knew not what.
Ever and ever his eyes were on David, and far back under the acacia-tree
Achmet slept as he had not slept since his doom fell on him.

At last Ebn Ezra Bey also slept; but David was awake with the night and
the benevolent moon and the marching stars.

The spirit of the desert was on him, filling him with its voiceless music.
From the infinite stretches of sand to the south came the irresistible
call of life, as soft as the leaves in a garden of roses, as deep as
the sea. This world was still, yet there seemed a low, delicate
humming, as of multitudinous looms at a distance so great that the ear but
faintly caught it--the sound of the weavers of life and destiny and
eternal love, the hands of the toilers of all the ages spinning and spinning
on; and he was part of it, not abashed or dismayed because he was but one
of the illimitable throng.

The hours wore on, but still he sat there, peace in all his heart, energy
tingling softly through every vein, the wings of hope fluttering at his
ear.

At length the morning came, and, from the west, with the rising sun, came a
traveller swiftly, making for where he was. The sleepers stirred around him
and waked and rose. The little camp became alive. As the traveller
neared the fresh-made fire, David saw that it was Lacey. He went eagerly
to meet him.

"Thee has news," he said. "I see it is so." He held Lacey's hand in his.

"Say, you are going on that expedition, Saadat. You wanted money.
Will a quarter of a million do?" David's eyes caught fire.

From the monastery there came the voices of the monks:

"O be joyful in the Lord, all ye lands. Serve the Lord with gladness,
and come before His presence with a song."

CHAPTER XXXIII
THE DARK INDENTURE
Nahoum had forgotten one very important thing: that what affected David as
a Christian in Egypt would tell equally against himself. If, in his
ill-health and dejection, Kaid drank deep of the cup of Mahomet, the red
eyes of fanaticism would be turned upon the Armenian, as upon the European
Christian. He had forgotten it for the moment, but when, coming into
Kaid's Palace, a little knot of loiterers spat upon the ground and snarled,
"Infidel--Nazarene!" with contempt and hatred, the significance of the
position came home to him. He made his way to a far quarter of the
Palace, thoughtfully weighing the circumstances, and was met by
Mizraim.

Mizraim salaamed.

"The height of thy renown be as the cedar of Lebanon, Excellency."
"May thy feet tread the corn of everlasting fortune, son of Mahomet."

They entered the room together. Nahoum looked at Mizraim curiously. He was
not satisfied with what he saw.

Mizraim's impassive face had little expression, but the eyes were
furtively eager and sinister.

"Well, so it is, and if it is, what then?" asked Nahoum coolly.

"Ki di, so it is," answered Mizraim, and a ghastly smile came to his lips.
This infidel pasha, Nahoum, had a mind that pierced to the meaning of
words ere they were spoken.

Mizraim's hand touched his forehead, his breast, his lips, and, clasping
and unclasping his long, snakelike fingers, he began the story he had come
to tell.

"The Inglesi, whom Allah confound, the Effendina hath blackened by a
look, his words have smitten him in the vital parts--"
"Mizraim, thou dove, speak to the purpose!"

Mizraim showed a dark pleasure at the interruption.

Nahoum was impatient, anxious; that made the tale better worth telling.

"Sharif and the discontented ones who dare not act, like the vultures,
they flee the living man, but swoop upon the corpse.

The consuls of those countries who love not England or Claridge
Pasha, and the holy men, and the Cadi, all scatter smouldering fires.

There is a spirit in the Palace and beyond which is blowing
fast to a great flame."

"Then, so it is, great one, and what bodes it?"
"It may kill the Inglesi; but it will also sweep thee from the fields of
life where thou dost flourish."
"It is not against the foreigner, but against the Christian, Mizraim?"

"Thy tongue hath wisdom, Excellency."
"Thou art a Muslim--"
"Why do I warn thee? For service done to me; and because there is none other
worth serving in Egypt. Behold, it is my destiny to rule others, to serve
thee."
"Once more thy turban full of gold, Mizraim, if thou dost service now that
hath meaning and is not a belching of wind and words. Thou hast a thing
to say--say it, and see if Nahoum hath lost his wit, or hath a palsied arm."

"Then behold, pasha. Are not my spies in all the Palace? Is not
my scourge heavier than the whip of the horned horse? Ki di, so it
is.
This I have found. Sharif hath, with others, made a plot which hath enough
powder in it to shake Egypt, and toss thee from thy high place into
the depths.

There is a Christian--an Armenian, as it chances; but he was chosen because
he was a Christian, and for that only. His name is Rahib. He is a tent-maker.
He had three sons. They did kill an effendi who had cheated them
of their land.

Two of them were hanged last week; the other, caught but a few days
since, is to hang within three days.
To-day Kaid goes to the Mosque of Mahmoud, as is the custom at this festival.
The old man hath been persuaded to attempt the life of Kaid, upon
condition that his son--his Benjamin--is set free. It will be but an attempt
at Kaid's life, no more; but the cry will go forth that a Christian did the
thing; and the Muslim flame will leap high."
"And the tent-maker?" asked Nahoum musingly, though he was turning over the
tale in his mind, seeing behind it and its far consequences.

"Malaish, what does it matter! But he is to escape, and they are to hang
another Christian in his stead for the attempt on Kaid. It hath
no skill, but it would suffice. With the dervishes gone malboos,
and the faithful drunk with piety--canst thou not see the issue,
pasha?

Blood will be shed."
"The Jews of Europe would be angry," said Nahoum grimly but evenly. "The
loans have been many, and Kaid has given a lien by the new canal at
Suez.
The Jews will be angry," he repeated, "and for every drop of Christian
blood shed there would be a lanced vein here. But that would not bring
back Nahoum Pasha," he continued cynically. "Well, this is thy story,
Mizraim; this is what they would do.

Now what hast thou done to stop their doing?"
"Am I not a Muslim? Shall I give Sharif to the Nile?"
Nahoum smiled darkly. "There is a simpler way. Thy mind ever runs on the
bowstring and the sword.

These are great, but there is a greater.
It is the mocking finger. At midnight, when Kaid goes to the Mosque Mahmoud,
a finger will mock the plotters till they are buried in confusion. Thou
knowest the governor of the prisons--has he not need of something?

Hath he never sought favours of thee?"
"Bismillah, but a week ago!"
"Then, listen, thou shepherd of the sheep--"
He paused, as there came a tap at the door, and a slave entered
hurriedly and addressed Nahoum. "The effendi, Ebn Ezra Bey, whom thou
didst set me to watch, he hath entered the Palace, and asks for
the Effendina."

Nahoum started, and his face clouded, but his eyes flashed fire. He tossed
the slave a coin. "Thou hast done well. Where is he now?"
"He waits in the hall, where is the statue of Mehemet Ali and the lions."

"In an hour, Mizraim, thou shalt hear what I intend. Peace be to thee!"

"And on thee, peace!" answered Mizraim, as Nahoum passed from the room, and
walked hastily towards the hall where he should find Ebn Ezra
Bey.
Nearing the spot, he brought his step to a deliberate slowness, and
appeared not to notice the stately Arab till almost upon him.

"Salaam, effendi," he said smoothly, yet with inquisition in his eye, with
malice in his tone.

"Salaam, Excellency."
"Thou art come on the business of thy master?"

"Who is my master, Excellency?"
"Till yesterday it was Claridge Pasha.

Hast thou then forsaken him in his trouble--the rat from the sinking ship?"

A flush passed over Ebn Ezra Bey's face, and his mouth opened with
a gasp of anger.

Oriental though he was, he was not as astute as this Armenian Christian,
who was purposely insulting him, that he might, in a moment of heat,
snatch from him the business he meant to lay before Kaid. Nahoum had not
miscalculated.

"I have but one master, Excellency," Ebn Ezra answered quietly at last,
"and I have served him straightly. Hast thou done likewise?"
"What is straight to thee might well be crooked to me, effendi."
"Thou art crooked as the finger of a paralytic."
"Yet I have worked in peace with Claridge Pasha for these years past,
even until yesterday, when thou didst leave him to his fate."
"His ship will sail when thine is crumbling on the sands, and all thou
art is like a forsaken cockatrice's nest."

"Is it this thou hast come to say to the Effendina?"
"What I have come to say to the Effendina is for the world to know
after it hath reached his ears. I know thee, Nahoum Pasha. Thou art a
traitor. Claridge Pasha would abolish slavery, and thou dost receive great
sums of gold from the slave-dealers to prevent it."
"Is it this thou wilt tell Kaid?"

Nahoum asked with a sneer. "And hast thou proofs?"
"Even this day they have come to my hands from the south."
"Yet I think the proofs thou hast will not avail; and I think that thou
wilt not show them to Kaid. The gift of second thinking is a great
gift.
Thou must find greater reason for seeking the Effendina."

"That too shall be. Gold thou hadst to pay the wages of the
soldiers of the south. Thou didst keep the gold and order the slave-hunt;
and the soldiers of the Effendina have been paid in human flesh and
blood--ten thousand slaves since Claridge Pasha left the Soudan,
and three thousand dead upon the desert sands, abandoned by those
who hunted them when water grew scarce and food failed. To-day shall
see thy fall."
At his first words Nahoum had felt a shock, from which his spirit
reeled; but an inspiration came to him on the moment; and he listened
with a saturnine coolness to the passionate words of the indignant
figure towering above him. When Ebn Ezra had finished, he replied
quietly:
"It is even as thou sayest, effendi. The soldiers were paid in
slaves got in the slave-hunt; and I have gold from the slave-dealers.
I needed it, for the hour is come when I must do more for Egypt
than I have ever done."
With a gesture of contempt Ebn Ezra made to leave, seeing an official
of the Palace in the distance. Nahoum stopped him. "But, one moment
ere thou dost thrust thy hand into the cockatrice's den. Thou dost
measure thyself against Nahoum? In patience and with care have I
trained myself for the battle. The bulls of Bashan may roar, yet
my feet are shod with safety. Thou wouldst go to Kaid and tell him
thy affrighted tale. I tell thee, thou wilt not go. Thou hast reason
yet, though thy blood is hot. Thou art to Claridge Pasha like a
brother--as to his uncle before him, who furnished my father's
palace with carpets. The carpets still soften the fall of my feet
in my father's palace, as they did soften the fall of my brother's
feet, the feet of Foorgat Bey."
He paused, looking at Ebn Ezra with quiet triumph, though his eyes
had ever that smiling innocence which had won David in days gone
by. He was turning his words over on the tongue with a relish born
of long waiting.
"Come," he said presently--"come, and I will give thee reason why
thou wilt not speak with Kaid to-day. This way, effendi."
He led the other into a little room hung about with rugs and tapestry,
and, going to the wall, he touched a spring. "One moment here,
effendi," he added quietly. The room was as it had been since David
last stood within it.
"In this room, effendi," Nahoum said with cold deliberation, "Claridge
Pasha killed my brother, Foorgat Bey."
Ebn Ezra fell back as though he had been struck. Swiftly Nahoum
told him the whole truth--even to the picture of the brougham, and
the rigid, upright figure passing through the night to Foorgat's
palace, the gaunt Mizraim piloting the equipage of death.
"I have held my peace for my own reasons, effendi. Wilt thou then
force me to speak? If thou dost still cherish Claridge Pasha, wilt
thou see him ruined? Naught but ruin could follow the telling of
the tale at this moment--his work, his life, all done. The scandal,
the law, vengeance!
But as it is now, Kaid may turn to him again; his work may yet go
on--he has had the luck of angels, and Kaid is fickle. Who can
tell?"
Abashed and overwhelmed, Ebn Ezra Bey looked at him keenly. "To
tell of Foorgat Bey would ruin thee also," he said. "That thou
knowest. The trick--would Kaid forgive it? Claridge Pasha would not
be ruined alone."
"Be it so. If thou goest to Kaid with thy story, I go to Egypt with
mine. Choose."
Ebn Ezra turned to go. "The high God judge between him and thee,"
he said, and, with bowed head, left the Palace.
CHAPTER XXXIV 
NAHOUM DROPS THE MASK 
"CLARIDGE PASHA!"
At the sound of the words, announced in a loud voice, hundreds of
heads were turned towards the entrance of the vast salon, resplendent
with gilded mirrors, great candelabra and chandeliers, golden
hangings, and divans glowing with robes of yellow silk.CHAPTER III.


The next day Diavolo happened to stroll into the oriel room about
tea-time, and finding his grandfather sitting there alone, looking down
upon Morningquest from his accustomed seat in the great deep window, which
was open, he carefully chose a soft cushion, placing it on the low sill so
that he could rest his back against it, and stretching himself out on the
floor, looked up at the old gentleman sociably.

"You're growing a big fellow, sir," the latter observed.

"But not growing so fast as Angelica is," said Diavolo.

"Ah, women mature earlier," said the duke. "But their minds never get far
beyond the first point at which they arrive."

"I suppose you mean when they marry at seventeen, or their education is
otherwise stopped short for them, just when a man is beginning his
properly?" Diavolo languidly suggested.

The duke frowned down at him. "Where is your sister?" he asked.

"That I can't tell you," Diavolo answered.

"Don't you know?" the duke said sharply.

"Yes," was the cool rejoinder; "but I don't happen to have my sister's
permission to say."

The old man's face relaxed into a smile: "That's right my boy, that's
right," he said, "Loyalty is a grand virtue. Be loyal to the ladies"--he
shook his head in search of an improving aphorism, but only succeeded in
extracting a familiar saw. "Kiss, but never tell," he said, "it's vulgarly
put, my boy, but there's a whole code in it, and a damned chivalrous code,
too. I tell you, men were gentlemen when they stuck to it."

There was a sound of stealthy footsteps in the room at this moment, and
the old duke glanced over his shoulder apprehensively, while Diavolo bent
to one side to peer round the chair his grandfather was sitting in, which
was between him and the door.

"It's one of the dogs," he said carelessly. "Father Ricardo is out, I
think."

The duke looked relieved.

"Well," Diavolo resumed, reflectively, "I should have thought myself that
it was playing it pretty low down to sneak on a woman. But, I say, sir,"
he asked innocently, "how would you define a lady-killer?"

"Lady-killer," said the little old gentleman, taking hold of his collar to
perk himself up out of his clothes, as it were, on the strength of his
past reputation: "A lady-killer is a--eh--a fellow whom
ladies--eh--admire."

"Do you mean real ladies, or only pretty women?" said Diavolo.

"Both, my boy, both," the duke answered complacently. He was beginning to
enjoy himself.

"You were one once, were you not, sir?" said Diavolo. "I suppose you had a
deuced good time?"

"Ah!" the duke ejaculated, with a sigh of retrospective satisfaction.
Then, suddenly remembering his new role, he pulled himself up, and added
severely. "But keep clear of women, my boy, keep clear of women. Women are
the very devil, sir."

"But supposing they run after _you_?" said Diavolo. "Nowadays, you
know, a fellow gets so hunted down--they say."

"Oh--ah--then. In that case, you see," said the duke, relapsing, "the
principle has always been to take the goods the gods may send you, and be
thankful."

There was a pause after this, during which the duke again recollected
himself.

"We were talking about women," he sternly recommenced, "and I was warning
you that their wiles are snares of the evil one, who finds them ever ready
to carry out his worst behests. Women are bad."

"Are they, now?" said Diavolo. "Well, I should have thought, taking them
all round, you know, that they're a precious sight better than _we_
are."

"It was a woman, my boy," the duke said solemnly, "who compassed the fall
of man."

"Well," Diavolo rejoined, with a calmly judicial air, "I've thought a good
deal about that story myself, and it doesn't seem to me to prove that
women are weak, but rather the contrary. For you see, the woman could
tempt the man easily enough; but it took the very old devil himself to
tempt the woman."

"Humph!" said the duke, looking hard at his grandson.

"And, at any rate," Diavolo pursued, "it happened a good while ago, that
business, and it's just as likely as not that it was Adam whom the devil
first put up to a thing or two, and Eve got it out of him--for I grant you
that women are curious--and then they both came a cropper together, and
it was a case of six of one and half a dozen of the other. It mostly is, I
should think, in a business of that kind."

"Well, yes," said the duke. "In my own experience, I always found that we
were just about one as bad as the other"--and he chuckled.

"Then, we may conclude that there is a doubt about that Garden of Eden
story whichever way you look at it, and it's too old for an argument at
any rate," said Diavolo. "But there is no doubt about the redemption. It
was a woman who managed that little affair. And, altogether, it seems to
me, in spite of the disadvantage of being classed by law with children,
lunatics, beggars, and irresponsible people generally, that, in the matter
of who have done most good in the world, women come out a long chalk ahead
of us."

"Why the devil don't you speak English, sir!" the duke burst out testily.

Diavolo started. "Good gracious, grandpapa!" he began with his customary
deliberation, "how sudden you are! You quite made me jump. Is it the slang
you don't like?"

"Yes sir, it _is_ the slang I don't like."

"Then you've only got to say so," said Diavolo in a tone of mild
remonstrance. "You really quite upset me when you're so sudden. Angelica
will tell you I never could stand being startled. She's tried all kinds of
things to cure me. You can't frighten me, you know. It's just the jump I
object to."

"Oh, you object, do you?" said the duke, bending his brows upon him. "Then
I apologise."

"Oh, no! pray don't mention it, sir," said Diavolo. "I didn't mean you to
go so far as that, you know. And it's over in a minute."

Angelica burst into the room at this point, followed by two or three dogs,
and immediately took up her favourite position on the arm of her
grandfather's chair.

"I want some tea," she said.

"It's coming," said Diavolo.

"You say that because you don't want the trouble of getting up to ring,"
Angelica retorted.

Diavolo looked at her provokingly, and she was about to say something
tart, when a footman opened the door wide, and two others entered carrying
the tea-things, and at the same time the rest of the party began to
assemble.

Lady Fulda was the first to arrive with her widowed sister, Lady Claudia.
They presented a great contrast, the one being so perfectly lovely, the
other so decidedly plain. Lady Claudia was a tall gaunt woman, hard in
manner, with no pretension to any accomplishments; but wise, and of a
faithful, affectionate disposition, which deeply endeared her to her
friends.

Lord Dawne came in next, with Dr. Galbraith and Mr. Kilroy of Ilverthorpe,
and these were followed by Father Ricardo and Mr. Ellis, after whom came
Ideala herself, alone.

This was before she made her name, but already people spoke of her; and
theoretically men were supposed not to like her "because of her ideas,
don't you know," which were strongly opposed in some circles, especially
by those who either did not know or could not understand them. There is no
doubt that mankind have a rooted objection to be judged when the judge is
a woman. If they cannot in common honesty deny the wisdom of her decisions
they attack her for venturing to decide at all.

"Now," said Angelica, skipping over to a couch beside which Mr. Kilroy was
sitting, "_now_, we shall have a little interesting conversation!"

"I hope you will kindly allow us to have a little interesting tea first,"
said Diavolo, who had risen politely when the other ladies entered the
room, a formality which he omitted in Angelica's case because he insisted
that she wasn't a lady.

When the tea was handed round, and the servants had withdrawn, he lounged
over to the couch where she was, in his deliberate way, sat down beside
her, and put his tea cup on the floor; and then they put their arms round
each other, slanted their heads together, and sat expectant. This had been
a favourite position of theirs from the time they could sit up at all, and
when there was a good deal of gossip going on about them it had always
been a treat to see them sitting so, with blank countenances and ears
open, collecting capital doubtless for new outrages on public decency.

"What do you want to talk about. Angelica?" Ideala asked, smiling.

"Oh, a lot of things," Angelica exclaimed, straightening herself
energetically, and giving Diavolo's head a knock with her own to make him
move it out of the way. "I've been reading, you know, and I want you to
explain. I want to know how people can be so silly."

"In what way?" Ideala asked.

"Well, I'm thinking of Aunt Fulda," said the candid Angelica. "You know,
she very much wants to make a Roman Catholic of me, and she gave me some
books to read, and of course I read them. They were all about the Church
being the true church and all that sort of thing. And then I got a lot of
books about other churches, and each said that _it_ was the true
church just as positively, and Aunt Fulda told me that anyone who would
read about _her_ church _must_ be convinced that it is the true
church, but the difficulty is to get people to read; so when I found these
other books I took them to her to show her all about the other true
churches, and I told her she ought to read them, because if there were
truth in any of them, we could none of us possibly be saved unless we
belonged to _all_ the different churches. But do you know, she
wouldn't look at a book! She said she wasn't allowed to! Now! what do you
think of that? and after telling me what a mistake it was not to read!"

Lady Fulda and her father were talking together in the window, and did not
therefore overhear these remarks, but Father Ricardo was listening, and
Ideala flashed a mischievous glance at him as Angelica spoke.

"Then," the latter continued before anyone could answer her, "Aunt Fulda
is just as good as she possibly _can_ be, and Father Ricardo says it
is because she has submitted to _his_ Holy Church; and Mrs. Orton Beg
and mamma are also as good as they possibly can be, and the Bishop of
Morningquest says that Mrs. Orton Beg is a holy woman because she is a
humble follower of Christ, but he rather shakes his head about mamma.
Uncle Dawne, however, and Dr. Galbraith both maintain that mamma is
admirable, because she doesn't trouble her head about churches and creeds
any longer. She used to do so once, but now she thinks only of what is
_morally_ right or wrong, and leaves the ecclesiastical muddle for
the divines to get out of as best they can. Mamma used to dread bringing
us to Morne when we were younger; we were always so outrageous here; and
we told her it was Aunt Fulda who made us so, because she is too good, and
the balance of nature has to be preserved. But, now, I am sure Aunt
Claudia is quite as good as she is, and so are you, and mamma, and Mrs.
Orton Beg."

Ideala smiled at her. "And so you are puzzled?" she said. "Well, now, I
will explain. Your aunts and mother, and Mrs. Orton Beg, are all of those
people born good, who would have been saints in any calendar, Buddhist,
Christian, or Jewish. They come occasionally--these good people--to cause
confusion on the subject of original sin, and overthrow the pride of
professors who maintain that their own code of religious ethics must be
the right one because it produces the best specimens of humanity. There
was a Chinese lady living at Shanghai a few years ago, a devout Buddhist,
who, in her habits of life, her character, her prayers, her penances, and
her sweetness of disposition, exactly resembled your Aunt Fulda, the only
difference between them being the names of the ideal of goodness upon whom
they called for help. Their virtues were identical, and the moral outcome
of their lives was the same."

"I see what you mean!" Angelica burst out. "And you wouldn't say either
'convert' or 'pervert' yourself, would you?"

"Well, no," Ideala acknowledged, "I always adopt a little pleonasm myself
to avoid Christian controversy, and say 'when So-and-so became' a Roman or
Anglican Catholic, a Protestant, Positivist, or whatever else it might be;
and I let them say 'convert' or 'pervert,' whichever they like, to me,
because I know that it really cannot matter, so long as they are
agreeable--not that anybody ever expects them to be, poor little people!
although they know quite well that they should never let their angry
passions rise. They have no sense of humour at all! But just fancy, how
silly it must seem to the angels when Miss Protestant throws down a book
she is reading and shrieks, '_Convert_, indeed!' while Miss Catholic
at the same moment groans,'_Pervert_,' indignantly! Must be
'something rotten in the state of Denmark,' surely, or one or other of
them would have proved their point by this time. Or do you suppose," she
added, looking at Lord Dawne, "that the opposition is mercifully
preordained by nature to generate the right amount of heat by friction to
keep things going so that we do not come to a standstill on the way to
human perfection? It is very wonderful any way," she added--"to the looker
on; wonderfully funny!"

"I did not know that Lady Adeline had definitely left the Church of
England," Mr. Kilroy observed, "and I am surprised to hear it."

"Are you?" said Ideala. "Now, we were not. Adeline has always been of a
deeply religious disposition; but it was not bound to be, and it was never
likely to be, the religion of any church which would secure her lasting
reverence."

"I wonder what the religion of the future will be?" Mr. Kilroy remarked.

"It will consist in the deepest reverence for moral worth, the tenderest
pity for the frailties of human nature, the most profound faith in its
ultimate perfectibility," Ideala answered. "The religion of the future
must be a thing about which there can be no doubt, and consequently no
dispute. It will be for the peace and perfecting of man, not for the
exercise of his power to outwit an antagonist in an argument; and there
are only the great moral truths, perceived since the beginning of thought,
but hard to hold as principles of action because the higher faculties to
which they appeal are of slower growth than the lower ones which they
should control, and the delights they offer are of a nature too delicate
to be appreciated by uncultured palates; but it is in these, the infinite
truths, known to Buddha, reflected by Plato, preached by Christ,
undoubted, undisputed even by the spirit of evil, that religion must
consist, and is steadily growing to consist, while the questionable
man-made gauds of sensuous service are gradually being set aside. The
religion of the future will neither be a political institution, nor a
means of livelihood, but an expression of the highest moral attribute,
human or divine--disinterested love."

She sat for some time, looking down at the floor, and lost in thought when
she had said this; and then, rousing herself, she turned to Father
Ricardo, "I had a fit of Roman Catholicism once myself," she said to him,
pleasantly, "I enjoyed it very much while it lasted. But you do a great
deal of harm, you clergy! In the first place you begin by setting up
Christ as an ideal of perfect manhood, and then you proceed to demolish
him as a possible example, by maintaining that he was not a man, but a
God, and therefore a being whom it is beyond the power of man to imitate!
Oh, you terrible, terrible clergy! You preach the parable of the buried
talents, and side by side with that you have always insisted that women
should put theirs away; and you have soothed their sensitive consciences
with the dreadful cant of obedience--not obedience to the moral law, but
obedience to the will of man; for what moral law could be affected by the
higher education of women?"

"The Anglican Church is rather countenancing the higher education of
women, is it not?" said Mr. Kilroy.

"You don't put it properly," Ideala answered. "Women, after a hard battle,
secured for themselves their own higher education, and now that it is
being found to answer, the churches are coming in to claim the credit.
Dear, how rapidly reforms are carried out when we take them in hand
ourselves!" she exclaimed. "All the spiritual power is ours, and while we
refuse to know, it must be wasted for want of direction."

"But that is what you reject," said Father Ricardo. "The Church is ever
ready to direct her children."

"For her own advantage, and very badly," Ideala answered. "Does her
direction ever benefit the human race generally, or anybody but herself in
particular? Every great reform has been forced on the Church from outside.
Just consider the state of degradation, and the dense ignorance of the
people of every country upon which the curse of Catholicism rests!
'Wherever churches and monasteries abound the people are backward' it is
written. Just lately, there has been a little revival of Catholicism, a
flash in the pan, here in England, due to Cardinal Newman and Cardinal
Manning, who introduced some good old Protestant virtues into your
teaching; but that cannot last. You carry the instrument of your own
destruction along with you in the degrading exercises with which you seek
to debase our beautiful, wonderful, perfectible human nature."

"But the Church has done all that is possible for the people," Father
Ricardo began lamely. "The Church has always taught, for one thing, that
the labourer is worthy of his hire."

"But the Church never used its influence to make the hire worthy of the
labourer; instead of that, it has always sought to grind the last penny
out of the people, and then it pauperized them with alms," said Ideala.

"Why have the priests done so little good, Uncle Dawne?" Diavolo asked.

"Because they are no better than other people," was the answer, "and when
they get money they use it just as everybody else does, to strengthen
their own position, and make a display with."

"Ah, the terrible mistake it has been, this making a paid profession of
the doing of good!" Ideala exclaimed.

Angelica, who had put her arm round Diavolo again, and was sitting with
her head against his, listening gravely, now looked at Ideala: "I want to
know where the true spirit of God is," she said.

"I can tell you," Ideala answered fearlessly. "It is in us _women_.
_We_ have preserved it, and handed it down from one generation to
another of our own sex unsullied; and very soon we shall be called upon to
prove the possession of it, for already"--she turned to Father Ricardo
here, and specially addressed him, speaking always in gentle tones,
without emphasis--"already I--that is to say Woman--am a power in the
land, while you--that is to say Priest--retain ever less and less even of
the semblance of power.

"Pardon me, dear lady," the priest replied; "but it shocks me to hear you
assume such an arrogant tone."

"I don't think the tone was in the least arrogant," Angelica put in
briskly; "and, at any rate, it's your own tone exactly, for I've heard you
say as much and more, speaking of the priesthood."

"Not exactly," Diavolo corrected her. "Father Ricardo always says:
'Heaven, for some great inscrutable purpose, has mercifully vouchsafed
this wondrous power to us, poor'--or humble or unworthy; the first
adjective of that kind he can catch--'priests.' I like the short way of
putting it myself."

"But why do you always try to make out that it is our duty to be
_miserable_ sinners?" Angelica asked.

"If we taught ourselves to be happy in this world, we should grow to love
it too much, and then we should not strive to win the next."

"And that would impoverish the Church?" Diavolo suggested.

"But why not let _us_ be happy, and you raise money in some other
way?" Angelica wanted to know. "Miracles--now I should try some miracles;
a miracle must be much better than a bazaar to raise the funds."

"Oh, but you forget the nunneries Father Ricardo was telling us about the
other day," Diavolo said; "the austere orders where they only live a few
years, you know."

"I had forgotten for the moment, but I read up the subject at the time,
and found out that when the nuns die all their money remains in the Church;
is that what you mean?" said the practical Angelica.

"Yes," said Diavolo. "You see, it would hardly cost ten shillings a week
to keep a nun, and of course," he said to Father Ricardo, "the more
fasting you counsel the less outlay there would be; so I don't wonder you
promise them more goodies in the next world, the more austerities they
practise in this."

"It must really work like a provision of nature for the enrichment of Holy
Church--so many nuns worked off on the prayer and fasting mill per annum,
so many unencumbered fortunes added to the establishment," Angelica
observed.

_"Jerusalem!_" said Diavolo. "How easy it is to gull the public!"

The Heavenly Twins had been speaking in a confidential tone, as if they
were behind the scenes with Father Ricardo, and now they watched him,
seeming to wait for him to wink--at least, that was how Dr. Galbraith
afterward interpreted the look. Nothing of this kind coming to pass,
however, they, both got up, and both together strolled out of the room,
yawning undisguisedly.

"That child, Angelica, will be one of us," Ideala whispered to Lord Dawne.

"Yes," he answered gravely; "They will both be of us eventually; only we
must make no move, but wait in patience 'Until the day break, and the
shadows flee away.'"


CHAPTER IV.


There was much high talk of doing good and living for others at Morne in
these days, to which the twins listened attentively. It is evident from
the thoughts they expressed at this time that the minds of both were in a
state of fermentation, and that the more active pursuits in which they
still indulged occasionally were the mere outcome of habit. When the
conversation was interesting, they would sit beside Father Ricardo (whom
they insisted on classing with themselves as an inferior being) and watch
the speakers by the hour together, and Father Ricardo too, gauging his
moral temperature, and noting every sigh of pity or shiver of
disapprobation that shook his sensitive frame.

"Where does it hurt you, _dear?_" Diavolo asked him once. "I know you
are a bad, bad man, because you say so yourself--"

"I never said so!" Father Ricardo exclaimed with a puzzled air.

"Well, you said you were a miserable sinner, not worthy, _et cetera_,
and it comes to the same thing," Diavolo rejoined; "and I don't wonder you
are disheartened when you see how impossible it is for you to be as
disinterestedly good as Uncle Dawne and Dr. Galbraith. I feel so myself
sometimes."

"Oh, I hope I am disinterested," Father Ricardo protested.

"I can't make it out if you are," said Diavolo, shaking his head. "You
don't seem to love goodness for its own sake, but for the reward here and
hereafter. The whole system you preach is one of reward and punishment."

Father Ricardo had an innocent hobby. He was fond of old china, and had
made a beautiful collection, with the help of such friends as Lord Dawne,
Dr. Galbraith, and Lady Adeline Hamilton-Wells, who never failed to bring
him back any good specimen they might find in the course of their travels.

One day at this time, after the talk had been running, as usual, upon
self-sacrifice and living for others, he invited the whole party to
inspect his collection; and they all went, with the exception of the
Heavenly Twins, who were not to be found at the moment. When the others
reached the room in which Father Ricardo kept his treasures, however, they
were surprised to find the cabinets comparatively speaking bare, and with
great gaps on the shelves as if someone had been weeding them
indiscriminately. The good Father looked very blank at first; but the
windows were wide open, and before he could think what had happened, a
noise on the lawn below attracted everybody's attention, and on looking
out to see what was the matter, they beheld the Heavenly Twins apparently
intent upon organizing a revel. They were very busy at the moment, and had
been for some hours evidently, for they had collected an organ man with a
monkey; a wandering musician with a harp; a man with a hammer who had been
engaged in breaking stones; a Punch and Judy party, consisting of a man,
woman, and boy, with their Toby-dog; five christy minstrels in their war
paint; a respectable looking mechanic with his wife and three children who
were tramping from one place to another in search of work; and a blind
beggar; and all these were seated in more or less awkward and constrained
attitudes on easy-chairs, covered with satin, velvet, or brocade, about
the lawn, with little tables before them on which was spread all the
cooked food, apparently, that the castle contained. When their admiring
relatives first caught sight of the twins, Angelica--who had coiled up her
hair, and wore a long black dress, borrowed from her Aunt Fulda's wardrobe;
a white apron with a bib, and a white cap like a nurse's, the property of
one of the lady's maids--was pouring tea out of a silver urn, and Diavolo,
in his shirt sleeves, with a serviette under his arm like a waiter in a
restaurant, was standing beside her with a salver in his hand, waiting to
carry it to the mechanic's lady.

"What on earth are you children doing?" Lord Dawne exclaimed.

"Feeding the hungry, sir," Diavolo drawled cheerfully.

"Well," groaned the poor priest, "you needn't have taken all my best china
for that purpose."

"We did that, sir," Diavolo replied with dignity, "in order that you, all
unworthy as you are, might have the pleasure of participating in this good
work. But, there!" he said to Angelica, "I told you he wouldn't appreciate
it!"

To the credit of the Heavenly Twins and their guests, it must be recorded
that no harm happened either to the china or the plate.

The next day was a Saint's day, and the children announced at breakfast
that they intended to keep it. They said they were going to compose a
religion for themselves out of all the most agreeable practices enjoined
by other religions, and they proposed to begin by making that day a
holiday.

Mr. Ellis would have remonstrated at the waste of time, and Father Ricardo
at the absence of proper intention, but the way the twins had put the
proposition happened to amuse the duke, and therefore they gained their
point. But, having gained it, they did not know very well what to do with
themselves. Angelica wouldn't make plans. She was thinking of the long
dress she had worn the day before, and feeling a vague desire to have her
own lengthened; and she wanted also to take that mysterious packet known
as her "work" to her Aunt Fulda's sitting room, where the ladies usually
spent the morning, so as to be with them, but she knew that Diavolo would
scorn her if she did; and the outcome of all this vagueness of intention
was a fit of excessive irritability. She wanted sympathy, but without
being aware of the fact herself, and the way she set about obtaining it
was by being excessively disagreeable to everybody. There was a rose in a
glass beside her plate, and she took it out, and began to twiddle it
between her fingers and thumb impatiently, till she managed to prick
herself with the thorns, and then she complained of the pain.

"Oh, that sort of thing doesn't hurt much," Diavolo declared.

"It _does_ hurt," she maintained aggressively; "and pain is pain,
whether the seat of it be your head, heart, or hind-quarters."

"_Angelica!_" Lady Fulda exclaimed with tragic emphasis. "Someone
must really talk to you _seriously!_ you are positively
_vulgar!_"

"Thank Heaven!" Angelica ejaculated fervently. "I knew I was going to be
something!"

She get up as she spoke, and walked out of the room with her head in the
air, affecting a proud consciousness of having had greatness suddenly
thrust upon her.

Lady Fulda looked helplessly, first at Father Ricardo, then at Mr. Ellis.

"Can't you do something?" she said to the latter.

Mr. Ellis replied by an almost imperceptible shrug of his shoulders. "We
know better than to interfere when she's in one of her bad-language
tantrums," Diavolo explained.

When his grandfather left the table, he followed him uninvited on a tour
of inspection around the castle and grounds, and, finally, retiring with
him to the library, whither the old duke usually went to rest, read, or
meditate sometime during the morning, he coiled himself up in an armchair,
took a small book out of his pocket, and began to study it dilligently.

His grandfather glanced at him affectionately and with interest, from time
to time. He was lonely in his old age, and liked to have the boy about. He
had nobody left to him now who could touch his heart or take him out of
himself as Diavolo did, for nobody else attached themselves to him in the
same way, or showed such an unaffected preference for having him all to
themselves,

"What are you reading, sir?" he asked him at last.

"'Euripides,' sir," Diavolo answered, glancing over the top of his book
for a moment as he spoke. "I'm just where Hippolytus exclaims: 'O Jove!
wherefore indeed didst thou place in the light of the sun that specious
evil to men--woman?'"

"Are you reading 'Euripides' with a 'Key'?" his grandfather asked sternly.

"No, I am reading a key to 'Euripides,'" Diavolo answered,

"Don't you know your Greek, sir?" his grandfather demanded.

"I'm just looking to see, sir," Diavolo rejoined, returning to his book.

When he had finished the page, he looked up at his grandfather, who was
sitting with his hands folded upon a large volume he held open on his
knee, meditating, apparently.

"Beastly bad tone about women in the Classics," Diavolo remarked; "don't
you think so, sir?"

"Ah, my boy, you don't know women yet!" the old duke responded.

"Then I've not made the most of my opportunities," Diavolo said with a
grin, "for we meet with a fine variety in the houses about here! But what
I object to in these classical chaps," he resumed, "is the way they
sneaked and snivelled about women's faults, as if they had none of their
own! and then their mean trick of going back upon the women, and
reproaching them with their misfortunes."

"What do you mean by that?" his grandfather asked.

"Well, sir, I suppose you would call old age a misfortune to a pretty
woman?" Diavolo answered. "And just look at the language in which that
fellow Horace taunts Lydia and Lyce when they grow old, and after the
sickening way he fawned upon them when they were young, too! And here
again," he said, holding up his book, "is that fellow Hippolytus. Just
because one woman has shocked him, he says '... Never shall I be satisfied
in my hatred against women.... For in some way or other they are always
bad.' And a little further back, too"--he scuffed the leaves over--"he
says that woman is a great evil _because_ men squander away the
wealth of their houses upon them. If the men were such superior beings,
why don't they show it somehow? Horace was as spiteful himself as any old
woman; we should have called him a cad nowadays. And all this abuse"--he
shook his 'Euripides'--"is beastly bad form whichever way you look at it."
He ruffled his thick tow-hair as he spoke, and yawned in conclusion.

"Then you are coming out as a champion of women?" said the duke.

"Oh, by Jove, no!" Diavolo exclaimed, straightening himself. "I haven't
the conceit to suppose they would accept such a champion, and besides, I
think it's the other way on now; _we_ shall want champions soon. You
see, in the old days, women were so ignorant and subdued, they couldn't
retaliate or fight for themselves in any way; they never thought of such a
thing. But, now, if you hit a woman, she'll give you one back promptly,"
he asseverated, rubbing a bump on his head suspiciously. "She'll put you
in _Punch_, or revile you in the Dailies; Magazine you; write you
down an ass in a novel; blackguard you in choice language from a public
platform; or paint a picture of you which will make you wish you had never
been born. Ridicule!" he ejaculated, lowering his voice. "They ridicule
you. That's the worst of it. Now, there's Ideala, she can make a fellow
ridiculous without a word. When old Lord Groome came back from Malta the
other day, he called, and began to jeer at Mrs. Churston's feet for being
big and ugly. Ideala let him finish; and then she just looked down at his
own feet, and you could see in a minute that he wished himself an Eastern
potentate with petticoats to hide them under; for they were ugly enough to
be indecent."

The duke stretched out one of his own miniature models of feet upon this,
and glanced at it complacently.

"Where do you get all these ideas?" he asked. "At your age I never had any;
and if I had, I should have been ashamed to own it. You'll be a prig,
sir, if you don't mind."

"_I_ don't mind," Diavolo rejoined. "I've heard you say that ladies
dearly love a prig, and therefore I rather think of cultivating that
tone."

"You should have been sent to a public school," his grandfather said. "It
would have made a man of you."

"Oh, time will do that just as well," Diavolo answered encouragingly.

At that moment the door opened, and Lady Fulda entered.

"Papa, may I speak to you now?" she asked, and Diavolo got up politely and
lounged off to look for Angelica. He did not succeed in finding her,
however, because she had driven into Morningquest to do some shopping with
her Aunt Claudia and Ideala. She hated shopping as a rule, and could
seldom be persuaded to do any; but that morning, after breakfast, she had
gone to Lady Fulda's room, where the three ladies were sitting, and after
fidgeting them to death by wandering up and down, doing nothing, with a
scowl on her face, and an ugly look of discontent in her fine dark eyes,
she had burst out suddenly: "Aunt Fulda! I want some long dresses." Lady
Fulda looked up at her in blank amazement; but Lady Claudia, who was all
energy, rolled up her work on the instant, rang the bell, ordered the
carriage, and answered: "Come, then, and get what you like."

And ten minutes afterward they had started.

Several unsuccessful attempts had been made to persuade Angelica to wear
long dresses, and Lady Claudia felt that now, when she proposed it
herself, it would never do to check the impulse; and accordingly, in less
than a week from that day, Angelica, the tom-boy, was to all appearance no
more, and Miss Hamilton-Wells astonished the neighbourhood.

She came down to the drawing room quite shyly in her first long dinner
dress, with her dark hair coiled neatly high on her head. She had met Mr.
Kilroy on the stairs, and he had looked at her in a strange, startled way,
but he said nothing; and neither did anybody else when she entered the
room. Her grandfather, however, opened his eyes wide when he saw her, and
smiled as if he were gratified. Lord Dawne gave her a second glance, and
seemed a little sad; and Ideala went up to her and kissed her, and then
looked into her face for a moment very gravely, making her feel as if she
were on the eve of something momentous. But Diavolo would not look at her
a second time. One glimpse had been enough for him, and during the whole
of dinner he never raised his eyes.

His uncle Dawne saw what was wrong with the boy, and glanced at him from
time to time sympathetically. He meant to talk to him when the ladies had
left the table, but Diavolo escaped unobserved before he could carry out
his intention.

Mr. Ellis, however, had seen him go, and followed him. He found him in the
schoolroom, crying as if his heart would break, his slender frame all
shaken with great convulsive sobs, and the old books and playthings which
had suddenly assumed for him the bitterly pathetic interest that attaches
to once loved things when they are carelessly cast aside and forgotten,
scattered about him. Mr. Ellis sat down beside, him, and touched his hand,
and tried to comfort him, but the tutor was sad at heart himself.

Before very long, however, Angelica burst in upon them, with her hair
down, and in the shortest and oldest dress she possessed. Her passionate
love for her brother had always been the great hopeful and redeeming point
of her character, and if she did show it principally by banging his head,
she never meant to hurt him. Almost any other sister would have owed him a
grudge for not admiring her in her first fine gown, and so spoiling her
pleasure; but Angelica saw that he was thinking that the old days were
over, and there had come a change now which would divide them, and she
thought only of the pain he was suffering on that account. So, when she
found that he was not going to join the ladies in the drawing room, she
rushed upstairs to her own room, which her maid was arranging for the
night, and relieved her feelings by tearing off her dinner dress, rolling
it in a whisp, and throwing it at the woman. Her petticoats followed it,
and then she kicked off her white satin shoes, one of which lit on the
mantelpiece, the other on the dressing table; and, tearing out her
hairpins, flung them about the floor in all directions.

"My old brown gown, Elizabeth," she demanded, stamping.

"What's the matter, Miss--"

But Angelica had snatched the gown from the wardrobe, put it on, and was
halfway downstairs, buttoning it as she went, before the maid could finish
the sentence.

When she entered the schoolroom, she threw herself on her knees beside
Diavolo, and hugged him tight, as if she been going to lose him
altogether, or he had just escaped from a great danger.

"I won't wear long dresses if you don't like them," she protested.

"Well, you can't go about like that," he grumbled, recovering himself the
moment he felt her close to him again, and struck by a sense of
impropriety in her short skirt after the grown-up appearance she had
presented in the long one. "You look like a beggar."

"Well, if I _do_ wear a long one," she declared, "it shall only be a
disguise. I promise you I'll be just as bad as ever in it," and she drew a
handkerchief out of her pocket, which had been left there for months and
was frowsy, and wiped her own eyes and Diavolo's abruptly, "Your feelings
are quite boggy, Diavolo," she said, giving a dry sob herself as she
spoke. "You can't touch them at all without coming to water. You cry when
you laugh."

Mr. Ellis had stolen softly out of the room as soon as he could do so
unobserved, and now the twins were sitting together in their favourite
position on the same chair, with their arms around each other, and
Angelica's dark head slanted so as to lean against Diavolo's fair one.

He had rewarded her last remark with a melancholy grin; but the clouds had
broken, and it now only required time for them to roll away.

"You'll get a moustache in time," Angelica proceeded, in her most
matter-of-fact tone. "I can see signs of it now in some lights, only it's
so fair it doesn't show much."

"I'll shave it to make it darker," he suggested.

"No, you mustn't do that," she answered, "because that'll make it coarse,
and I want you to have one like Uncle Dawne's. But when it comes it will
make you look as much grown up as my long dresses do me, and then we'll
study some art and practise it together, and not be separated all our
lives."

"We will," said Diavolo.

"But I think we ought to begin at once," Angelica added thoughtfully.
"Just give me time to consider. And come out into the grounds for a
frolic. I feel smothered in here; and there's a moon!"


CHAPTER V.


Edith Beale had now been married for more than a year to Sir Mosley
Menteith, and the whole of their life together had been to her a painful
period of gradual disillusion--and all the more painful because she was
totally unprepared even for the possibility of any troubles of the kind
which had beset her. Parental opinion and prejudice, ignorance, education,
and custom had combined to deceive her with regard to the transient nature
of her own feeling for her lover; and it was also inevitable that she
should lend herself enthusiastically to the deception; for who would not
believe, if they could, that a state so ecstatic is enduring? Even people
who do know better are apt to persuade themselves that an exception will
be made in their favour, and this being so, it naturally follows that a
girl like Edith, all faith and fondness, is foredoomed by every
circumstance of her life and virtue of her nature, to make the fatal
mistake. But, as Evadne told her, passion stands midway between love and
hate, and is an introduction to either; and there is no doubt that, if
Menteith had been the kind of repentant erring sinner she imagined him,
her first wild desire would have cooled down into the lasting joy of
tranquil love. Menteith, however, was not at all that kind of man, and,
consequently, from the first the marriage had been a miserable example of
the result of uniting the spiritual or better part of human nature with
the essentially animal or most degraded side of it. In that position there
was just one hope of happiness left for Edith, and that was in her
children. If such a woman so situated can be happy anywhere it will be in
her nursery. But Edith's child, which arrived pretty promptly, only proved
to be another whip to scourge her. Although of an unmistakable type, he
was apparently healthy when he was born, but had rapidly degenerated, and
Edith herself was a wreck.

They had been out to Malta for a short time, but had come home, Menteith
being invalided, and were now at a bracing sea-side place, trying what the
air would do for them all.

It was Edith's habit to send the child out with his nurse directly after
breakfast, and having done so as usual one morning, she remained alone
with her husband in the breakfast room, which looked out upon the sands.
_SIR_,
I Should now go upon the Comparison of _Virgil_'s and _Milton_'s Versification,
in which you will meet with that Paradox, as you thought it at first,
namely, that the principal Advantage _Virgil_ has over _Milton_
is _Virgil_'s Rhyme. But I beg leave to postpone that matter at present,
because I have a mind to make some Remarks upon the second Line in the
Translation of the beginning of the _Iliad_ mentioned in my former Letter,
in which the auxiliary Verb _did_ (as our Grammarians call it) is made
use of. The Line runs thus.

"Which to the _Greeks did_ endless Sorrows bring.

It is commonly apprehended from a Passage in Mr. _Pope_'s _Essay on
Criticism_, that all auxiliary Verbs are mere _Expletives_.

"While Expletives their feeble Aid _do_ join, And ten low Words oft creep
in one dull Line.

But this I believe Mr. _Pope_ never intended to advance. _Milton_ has used
them in many Places, where he could have avoided it if he had
pleased. I will produce one.

--"Him the most High Wrapt in a balmy Cloud with fiery Steeds _Did_, as
thou saw'st, receive.--
_Milton_ might have said,
"Receiv'd, as thou hast seen.--
But he thought the auxiliary Verb added Strength to the Expression,
as indeed it does.

I own where the auxiliary Verb is brought close to its principal,
and _that_ a thin monosyllable, as in the Line just now referred
to, the Verse is very rude and disagreeable.

But to prove that the auxiliary Verb may be employed properly, I will produce
an Instance in rhym'd Verse, as strong as that of _Milton_ just
mentioned.

"Then _did_ the roaring Waves their Rage compose, When the great Father of
the Flood arose.

_Pit's_ 1st Æneid.

I believe it will not be disputed, but that this Line is as full, as
sonorous, and majestick as if the auxiliary Verb had been left out, and the
Author had used _compos'd_ instead of _did compose_.

The Expression is certainly more beautiful and more poetical; and the
reason of it is, that it occasions suspence, which raises the
attention; or in other Words the auxiliary Verb gives notice of
something coming, before the principal thing itself appears, which
is another Property of Majesty.

Mr. _Dryden_'s authority might likewise be added on this occasion; even
in his celebrated Lines on _Milton_ it is to be met with.

"_Greece_, _Italy_, and _England did_ adorn.

In his Translation of the _Æneid_ there are many Instances of the same
nature, one of which I will mention;
"The Queen of Heav'n _did_ thus her fury vent.

The Metre of this Line, as the Words are here rang'd, is not bad, as the
Ear can judge; but it would have been extremely so, if he had writ
it thus, 
"The Queen of Heaven her Fury thus _did_ vent.

[A]
[Footnote A:
His Heart, his Mistress and his Friends _did_ share.
_Pope_, on _Voiture_.]
From whence it appears that the auxiliary Verb is not to be rejected
at all times; besides, it is a particular Idiom of the _English_ Language:
and has a Majesty in it superior to the _Latin_ or _Greek_ Tongue, and I
believe to any other Language whatsoever.

Many Instances might be brought to support this Assertion from Great
Authorities. I shall produce one from _Shakespear_.

--_This to me In dreadful Secrecy impart they_ did.

The Auxiliary Verb is here very properly made use of; and it would
be a great loss to _English_ Poetry, if it were to be wholly laid
aside.

In Translations from the _Greek_ and _Latin_, I believe it wou'd
sometimes be impossible to do justice to an Author without this
Help:
I think the Passage in _Homer_ before us, I mean the two first Lines of the
_Iliad_, are an Instance of this kind. They have been translated by many
Persons of late, _Dryden_, _Manwaring_, Mr.
_Tickel_, and by Mr. _Pope_ twice, and not by any one of 'em, as I
apprehend, in the Spirit of _Homer_. As to Mr. _Pope_'s two Translations,
I don't understand why the latter ought to be preferr'd to the former. Mr.
_Pope_'s first Translation stood thus.

The Wrath of _Peleus'_ Son, the direful Spring Of all the _Grecian_
Woes, _O_ Goddess sing.

Mr. _Pope_ had reason to be dissatisfy'd with the _O_ in the second
Line, and to reject it; for _Homer_ has nothing of it. But now let
us see how the Vacancy is supplied in Mr. _Pope_'s new Translation.

_Achilles'_ Wrath, to _Greece_ the direful Spring Of Woes un-number'd,
_Heav'nly_ Goddess, sing.

Is not _Heav'nly_ as much an Expletive as _O_, and can either of these
Couplets deserve to be plac'd in the Front of the Iliad? I could wish
Mr. _Pope_ would return these two Lines once more to the Anvil, and dismiss
all Expletives here at least.

But enough of Expletives.

I shall now say something of _Monosyllables_, which seem to be
absolutely condemn'd in the second Line of the two Verses just
mention'd from Mr.

_Pope's Essay on Criticism_.

And ten low Words oft creep in one dull Line.

Mr. _Dryden_ indeed has said in several Places, that the vast Number
of _Monosyllables_ in our Language makes it barbarous and rough, and unfit
for Poetry. I am apt to think Mr. _Pope_ gave into Mr.
_Dryden_'s Sentiment a little too hastily. I own _ten low Words_ too
frequently _creep on in one dull line_, in a Poet's Works, whom
Mr.
_Pope_ has formerly celebrated with no mean Encomiums.

The following Lines afford an Example in this respect.

At the beginning of the third Book of the _Davideis_, this is the
Description of _Goliah_'s Sword.

"A Sword so great, that _it_ was only _fit_ To take off his great Head,
who came with _it_.
_Cowley._
Here are ten _dull_ Words most certainly in one _dull_ Line.

"To take off his great Head, who came with _it_.

And miserable is the Metre in which they creep on. But hundreds of
_monosyllable_ Lines are to be found in _Milton_ that are as sublime, as
beautiful, and as harmonious as can possibly be written. Look only into the
Morning Hymn in the fifth Book.

"Speak ye who best can tell, ye Sons of Light.

Again,
"Thou Sun! of this great World both Eye and Soul.

Again,
"And when high Noon hast gain'd, and when thou fall'st.

Again,

"With the fixt Stars, fixt in their Orb that flies.

Again,
"Breathe soft or loud; and wave your Tops, ye Pines.

Again,
"Bear on your Wings and in your Notes his Praise.

Can it be said that ten dull Words creep on dully in any one of these
Lines? But Examples may likewise be given in rhym'd Verse, of the
Harmony of _Monosyllables_. Harmony consists in mixing rough and smooth,
soft and harsh Sounds.

What Words can be rougher than such as these, _Rides_, _Rapt_,
_Throws_, _Storms_; or smoother than these, _Wheel_, _Hush_, _Lull_?

"Then mounted on his radiant Carr he _rides_, And _wheels_ along
the level of the Tides.

_Pit_'s 1st Æneid.

How rough is the first Line, how soft the latter! As soft as the Original,
which is a Masterpiece.

"_Rapt_ by his Steeds he flies in open Day, _Throws_ up the Reins,
and skims the watry Way.

"Has given to thee great _Æolus_ to raise _Storms_ at thy sov'reign
Will, and _smooth_ the Seas.

"He spake, and speaking chas'd the Clouds away, _Hush'd_ the loud Billows,
and restor'd the Day.

"Mean time the Goddess on _Ascanius_ throws, A balmy Slumber and a
sweet Repose.

_Lull'd_ in her Lap to Rest, the Queen of Love, Convey'd him to the
soft _Idalian_ Grove.

_Pit_'s 1st Æneid.

Where can a smoother Line than this be found in our Language?

"_Lull'd_ in her Lap to Rest, the Queen of Love.

And it may be observed that this Line is all Monosyllables.

_Monosyllables_ are likewise of great consequence on another account.
The Strength of the _English_ Language is greatly owing to them:
For to them it is principally obliged for its Conciseness; and
Conciseness is Strength.

Now Conciseness is not only to express ourselves in as few Words as we
can, but the Excellency of the Language shews itself, if those few
Words are composed of few Syllables. And herein upon Examination, the
Strength of the _English_ Tongue will be found to lye; and for this reason
it may be said to be more concise than the _Latin_; which will
appear if _Virgil_ is turned into _English_, I mean even _English_
Verse.

For Example:

"--_Ubi tot Simois correpta sub undas Scuta virum, Galeasq; & fortia
Corpora volvit._

"Where _Simois_ Streams incumber'd with the slain, Roll'd Shields, and
Helms, and Heroes to the Main.
_Pit_'s 1st Æneid.

To discover which of these two Passages is the most concise, it is not
sufficient to shew, that there are two whole _English_ Lines, and but
one Line and three Parts of another in the _Latin_. _Latin_ and _English_
Lines cannot be compared together, because in a _Latin_ Line there
are six Feet, and in an _English_ Line but five. Again, in _Latin_
Verse there must be in every Line one Foot of three Syllables, often
three or four, or even five Feet of three Syllables, and sometimes
four or five Syllables in one Foot.

Whereas in an _English_ Line, there is hardly ever more than two Syllables
in a foot. So that an _English_ Verse cannot be compared with the
_Latin_ by the Line, or by the Foot, but only by the
Syllables of which the Words are composed, which make the Feet in both
the Languages. The Business then is to enquire whether we write or
pronounce more Syllables in the _Latin_ or _English_ Verses here quoted:
Upon Enquiry it appears that there are twenty nine Syllables in
the _Latin_, and but twenty one in the _English_; so that the
_English_ is almost one third part less than the _Latin_; which
certainly shews the former to be much more concise than the latter,
there being nothing left out in the _English_, but the whole Thought
is rather more fully expressed: And this we see is owing to
_Monosyllables_ both Verbs and Nouns, _Streams_, _Slain_, _Shields_,
_Roll'd_, _Helms_, _Main_.

In short the whole Passage is equal to the Original in Majesty and Harmony,
and superior in Conciseness.

To give another Example or two of the same nature.

"_Urbs antiqua fuit, Tyrii tenuere Coloni, Carthago, Italiam contra,
Tyberinaque longe Ostia, dives opum, studiisque Asperrima Belli._

"Against the _Italian_ Coast, of ancient Fame A City rose, and
_Carthage_ was the Name; A _Tyrian_ Colony, from _Tyber_ far, Rich,
rough, and brave, and exercis'd in war.

Mr. _Pit_'s Æneid.

"--_Facti de Nomine Byrsam, Sed vos, qui tandem, quibus aut venistis ab
oris, Quove tenetis iter?_--
"Hence _Byrsa_ nam'd.--But now ye Strangers, say, Who, whence you are, and
whither lies your Way?

I have chosen here three Passages of three very different kinds, and in all
of them the _English_ appears to be much more concise than the _Latin_;
neither is there any thing wanting in the Fulness of the Sense, or in
Majesty, or in Harmony of Numbers, any more in the two last Passages
than in the former.

Another Instance of this kind might be produced out of _Virgil_'s most
perfect Work, the _Georgick_, although it wants the Advantage of being
translated by such a Hand as Mr. _Pit_'s.

"_Si vero Viciamq; seres vitemq; Faselum, Nec Pelusiacoe curam
aspernabere lentis._
"But if the Vetch you sow, or meaner Tare, Nor shall disdain th'
_Ægyptian_ Lentil's Care.

In the _Latin_ there are thirty Syllables in the two Lines, in the _English_
but twenty one. So that the _English_ is almost one third more concise
than the _Latin_; and at the same time _Virgil_'s Sense fully
expressed.

I will conclude this Letter with the Opinion of a Foreigner concerning our
Monosyllables: A Person not at all prepossessed in favour of our
Language.

"The _English_ Language, besides the most significant Words borrowed from
the _Latin_, _Greek_, &c. and often shortned, hath a vast Stock
of its own, and being for the most part Monosyllables, no Speech
is capable of expressing Thought in Sounds so few as the _English_
does:
This is easily observed by the Translations of the _English_ into
Foreign Languages.

"The Strength and Conciseness that Monosyllables (especially in Verbs)
produce, are of wonderful Use in Lyrick Poetry, because they Enter into
any Foot or Measure of Verses, by different Transpositions; so that I
dare venture to assert, there is no _Italian_ or Foreign Song, which
_English_ Words will not suit; the Variety of Feet and Metres producing
equal Variety of Mode and Movements in Composition. The want of this
is what makes the _French_ vocal Musick so confined and uniform;
for I cannot recollect above two of their Verbs in use in the
infinitive Mood, that are Monosyllables, and not one exact Dactile
in all their Polysyllables."

_Röner_'s Preface to his _Melopeïa Sacra_.

Sept. 13. 1736.

_I am_, SIR, _&c._

LETTER III.

_SIR,_
In comparing _Virgil_'s and _Milton_'s Versification, I shall begin with
_Virgil_; and shew some of the principal Beauties of his Poetry in this
respect: And here I must own myself not a little indebted to _La-Cerda_,
_Pontanus_ and _Pierius_, but above all to the most excellent _Erythræus_,
who has not only considered every Paragraph, every Line, every Foot,
every Word, and every Syllable, but even every Letter in _Virgil_; and
it is not easy to conceive how much may depend on a single Letter, very
often the whole Harmony of a Line; and on this Account we have vast Obligations
to _Pierius_; to him we owe this fine Verse, and many others.

"_Atq; rotis summas levibus_ pellabitur _undas_.--
All the common Editions read _perlabitur_; which is horrid to the ear.

But to go on with the Matter in hand. The principal Excellencies of _Virgil_'s
Versification consist of the several following Particulars.

1st, The continual varying of the Pause.

2d, The Inversion of the Phrase.

3d, The adapting of the Sound to the Sense.

4th, The mixing of the singular and plural Numbers.

5th, The giving Majesty and Strength to his Verse with the connecting
Particles _Que_ and _Et_.

6th, The _Collocatio Verborum_, or artful way of placing Words.

7th, The changing the common Pronunciation of Words.

8th, Verses contrary to the common Measure.
9th, 10th, and 11th, His _Alliteratio_, _Allusio Verborum_, and
_Assonantia Syllabarum_.

As these three last Articles arise from Observations perfectly new at the
time they were written by _Erythræus_, namely, about 200 Years
ago; and as new at this time, having been almost quite lost by I
know not what Accident to the World; I must follow my Master, and
use his Terms for his Discoveries, except where I differ a little
from him.
1st, To begin with the first Article mentioned in this Letter, _The
Varying of the Pause_.

This Subject I have met with in several Books, but not fully explained
in any one of them to my Capacity; for I must confess I should never
have thoroughly apprehended the Varying of the Pause in any Language, if
I had not thought of an Expedient to discover what is the common
Pause in a Verse that each Language naturally stops at, of which I
have any Knowledge.

To find out this, I consulted the middling sort of Poets, or the
first Practicers in this Art: In this Enquiry I observ'd from _Hesiod_
and _Ennius_ among the _Greek_ and _Latin_ Poets, and afterwards
from _Ovid_ with relation to the latter, and which I am now to speak
of, that the common Pause or Stop in all _Latin_ Heroick Verse (to
say nothing of the _Greek_, which agrees with it in this Respect)
is upon the 1st Syllable of the 3d Foot.

For Example,
"_Ante mare & tellus | & quod tegit omnia, cælum, Unus erat toto |
Naturæ vultus in orbe, Quem dixêre Chaos | rudis indigestaque moles;
Nec quicquam, nisi pondus, iners; | congestaque eodem Non bene
junctarum | discordia semina rerum.

Nullus adhuc mundo | præbebat lumina Titan; Nec nova crescendo |
reparabat cornua Phoebe, Nec circumfuso | pendebat in aëre tellus_--

Here we have eight Lines all paused in the same Place, except one,
(the 4th); and in this kind of Measure the _Metamorphosis_ is
generally written; from whence I collected the natural Pause in the
_Latin_ Language to be as abovementioned: I then consulted the best
Poem of the best _Latin_ Poet, which begins with these Lines.

"_Quid faciat lætas segetes, | quo Sydere Terram Vertere, | Mæcenas, |
ulmisque adjungere Vites Conveniat, | quæ cura Boum, | qui cultus
habendo Sit Pecori, | Apibus quanta experientia parcis Hinc canere
incipiam |._--
Here I observed that this great Master had artfully avoided the
common Pause till he came to the fifth Line; and he takes care to
do it as much as possible throughout the whole Work; from whence
arises one of the most material Differences in the Versification
of _Ovid_ and _Virgil_; and to produce more Examples would be a
needless Labour.

In this Place let me take Notice that it is on Account of Varying the
Pause that _Virgil_ makes his broken Lines in the _Æneid_, which
suspend all Pauses, and the Ear is relieved by this Means, and
attends with fresh Pleasure.

Whoever intends to come up to _Virgil_ in Harmony in Heroick Numbers
in any long Work, must not omit this Art.
2d, The next thing to be attended to, is, _The Inversion of the
Phrase_.

This flings the Stile out of Prose, and occasions that Suspense which is
the Life of Poetry.

This _builds the lofty Rhyme_ (as _Milton_ expresses it) in such
manner as to cause that Majesty in Verse of which I have said so
much before, that there is no need of saying any thing more here.
3d.

The third thing is, _The adapting the Sound to the Sense_.

Most People know such Instances of this Nature, as _Quadrupedante_, &c. and
_Illi inter sese_, &c. But few attend to an Infinity of other Examples.

How is the Verse drawn out in length, and how does it labour when
strong heavy Land is to be ploughed!

"--_Ergo, age terræ

Pingue solum, primis extemplo a Mensibus Anni Fortes invortant tauri._--

How nimbly does the Verse move when the turning over very light Ground
is represented!

"--_Sub ipsum Arcturum_, tenui s[=a]t erit _suspendere sulco_.--
How slow does the heavy Waggon proceed in this Line!

"_Tardaque Eleusinæ Matris Volventïa Plaustra._--
How does the Boat bound over the _Po_ in these two Hemisticks!
"--_Levis innatat alnus Missa Pado._--
See Feathers dancing on the Water in this!
"--_In aqua colludere plumas._--
No Stem of the Crab-tree is more rough than this Verse.
"_Inseritur vero ex foetu nucis arbutus horrida:_
Water is not more liquid than this.
"_Speluncisque lacus Clausos, lucosque sonantis._--
_S. & L. liquescit Carmen instar aquarum_, says _Erythræus_ in his
Note on this Line.

How gently flow the Streams in this Verse!
"_Unde pater Tiberinus, & unde Aniena fluenta._--
What a roaring do the _Hypanis_ and _Caicus_ make in the
next!

"_Sax[=o]sumque s[=o]nans Hypanis, Mysusque Caïcus._
But now observe how he raises his Song to honour his Favourite
_Eridanus_!
"_Et gemina_ auratus _taurino cornua vultu_ Eridanus; _quo non_
alius _Per Pinguia culta In mare purpureum v[=i]olent[=i]or
[=i]nflu[=i]t amn[=i]s._
The former Line strikes the Ear with _Mysus_ and _Caïcus_; here you
have _Auratus_, _Eridanus_, and _Alius_. Then an Alliteration, _Per
Pinguia_, and at last the whole Passage rolls on in a Dactyl Line,
and rushes into the Sea with an _Assultus_ of the Vowel _i_, repeated
five times in three Words.

"--_Violentior influit amnis._
The following Line tours into the Skies with the highest Mountain
in _Italy_.
"--_Gaudetque nivali Vertice se attollens pater Appeninus, ad
auras._-- 
This falls down as low as the deepest Valley.
"_Saxa per, & scopulos, & depressas convalles._
In short there is nothing in Nature that _Virgil's_ Verse does not
convey to the _Ear_, and the _Eye_; so that this Subject is
inexhaustible, and must be left to every one's particular
Observation.
The learned _Morhophius_ has a Passage relating to this Matter which
comes in too properly here to be omitted.
"Solent Carminibus suæ esse a Numeris Veneres, & certa quædam
Artificia, quæ mirifice ornant versum, quales apud Virgilium, mirum
numeri Poetici Observatorem, frequenter occurrunt, e.g. cum versus
terminantur Monosyllabis, ut: _procumbit humi bos: nascetur ridiculus
mus_."I think you were right last night about Edith," she said. "She is not as
she should be. Write to Dr. Galbraith. Ask him to come here to-morrow. Ask
him to dine and stay the night, as if it were only an ordinary visit--not
to alarm her, you know. But tell him why we want him to come. I am nervous
about her."

Mrs. Beale's face quivered, and she burst into tears as she spoke.

"Oh, my dear! I am sure there is no need to agitate yourself," the bishop
exclaimed. "Now do--now don't, really! See! I will write at once."

He sat down, and began, "My dear George," and then looked up at his wife
to see if she were not already relieved.

Mrs. Beale could not speak, but she stroked his head once or twice in
acknowledgment of his great kindness. Then more tears came because he
_was_ so very kind; and finally she was obliged to go to her own room
to recover herself.

As the day wore on, however, she became reassured. Edith seemed much
refreshed by her sleep, and, in the afternoon when the three ladies came
from the castle to call upon her, bringing Angelica with them, she quite
roused up.

"What, Angelica a grown up young lady in a long dress!" she exclaimed.
"But where is Diavolo?"

"We had a slight difference of opinion this morning," Angelica answered
stiffly.

"Dear me! that is a new thing!" Mrs. Beale commented.

"No, it is not," Angelica contradicted, bridling visibly. "Only, when we
were younger we used to--settle our differences--at once, and have done
with them. But now that I am in long dresses Diavolo won't do that, so we
have to sulk like married people."

"But, my dear child, I don't see why you should quarrel at all," Mrs.
Beale remonstrated.

"You would if you were with us, I expect," Angelica answered, and then she
turned her attention to Edith, but not by a sign did she betray, the
slightest consciousness of the latter's disfigurement--unless making
herself unusually agreeable was a symptom of commiseration; and in this
she succeeded so thoroughly that when the others rose to go Edith did not
feel inclined to part with her.

"Won't you stay with me here a few days?" she entreated.

Angelica reflected. "It would do him good, I should think," she said at
last.

"I should think it would!" Edith agreed, laughing.

"Did I speak?" said Angelica.

"Yes," Edith answered. "You informed me that you are going to stay here in
order to punish Diavolo by depriving him of your society for a time."

"I am sure I did not say all that!" Angelica exclaimed.

"Well, not exactly, perhaps," Edith confessed; "but you led me to infer
it."

"Well, I will stay," Angelica decided. "Aunt Fulda, I'm going to stay here
for a few days with Edith," she answered.

"Very well, dear," her aunt meekly rejoined. "Are you going to stay now?"

"Yes. Tell Elizabeth to bring me some wearing apparel."

As they drove back to Morne, Lady Claudia scolded Lady Fulda for so weakly
allowing Angelica to have her own way in everything.

"I thought you would agree with me that the sweet womanly influence at the
palace would do her good," Lady Fulda answered, in an injured tone.

"'Sweet womanly' _nonsense_!" said Lady Claude. "She will twist them
all round her little finger, and turn the whole place upside down before
she leaves, or I am much mistaken."

"Well, dear, If you would only make Angelica do what _you_ wish while
you are here to influence her I should be thankful," Lady Fulda rejoined
with gentle dignity.

Lady Claudia said no more.

Things went merrily at the palace for the rest of the day. Mrs. Orton Beg
called, and Mr. Kilroy of Ilverthorpe, between whom and Angelica there was
always an excellent understanding; and she entertained him now with
observations and anecdotes which so amused Edith that, as Mrs. Beale said
to the bishop afterward: "The dear, naughty child quite took her out of
herself."

Angelica had never been in the same house with a baby before, and she was
all interest. Whatever defects of character the new women may eventually
acquire, lack of maternal affection will not be one of them.

"Have you seen the baby?" she asked Elizabeth, when the latter was
brushing her hair for dinner. He had not been visible during the
afternoon, but Angelica had thought of him incessantly.

"Yes, Miss," Elizabeth answered.

"Is he a pretty baby?" Angelica wanted to know.

Elizabeth pursed up her lips with an air of reserve.

"You don't think so?" Angelica said--she had seen the maid's face in the
mirror before her. "What is he like?"

"He's exactly like the bishop, Miss."

Angelica broke into a broad smile at herself in the glass. "What! a little
old man baby!" she exclaimed.

"Yes, Miss--with a cold in his head," the maid said seriously.

When she was dressed, Angelica went to make his acquaintance. On the way
she discovered her particular friend, the bishop, going furtively in the
same direction, and slipped her hand through his arm.

"We'll go together," she said confidentially, taking it for granted that
his errand was the same as her own.

The nurse was undressing the child when they entered, and Edith sat
watching her. She was already dressed for the evening, and looked worse in
an elaborate toilet than she had done in her morning dress. A stranger
would have found it hard to believe that only the year before she had been
radiantly healthy and beautiful. The puzzled, pathetic expression again in
her eyes as she watched the child. She had no smile for him, and uttered
no baby words to him--nor had he a smile for her. He was old, old already,
and exhausted with suffering, and as his gaze wandered from one to the
other it was easy to believe that he was asking each dumbly why had he
ever been born?

"Is _that_ Edith's baby?" Angelica exclaimed in her astonishment and
horror under her breath, slipping her hand from the bishop's arm.

She had seen enough in one momentary glance, and she fled from the room.
The bishop followed her. Mrs. Beale was there when they entered, standing
behind her daughter's chair, but she did not look at her husband, nor he
at her. For the first time in their married life, poor souls, they were
afraid to meet each other's eyes.


CHAPTER VII.


Next day, in the afternoon, Mrs. Beale being otherwise engaged, Edith
proposed that she and Angelica should go for a drive together. Edith was
feeling better, and Angelica had recovered her equanimity. She suggested
that they should drive toward Fountain Towers. Edith had not been on that
road since her marriage, and when they passed the place where she and her
mother had seen the young French girl lying insensible on the pathway with
her baby beside her she was reminded of the incident, and described it to
Angelica, adding: "I have so often longed to know what became of her."

"I can tell you," said Angelica. "I know her quite well by sight. She is
living with Nurse Griffiths, in Honeysuckle Cottage, on Dr. Galbraith's
estate. Nurse Griffiths told us he brought her there one day in his
carriage very ill, and she has been there ever since. He always gets angry
and snaps at you if he's bothered about anybody who's ill or unfortunate,
and Diavolo and I met him that day coming away from the cottage, and he
spoke to us so shortly we were sure there was something bad the matter, so
we went to see what it was, and Nurse Griffiths said she was French. I've
not been there since, but I expect it's the same girl. Shall we stop and
see? We pass the end of the lane where the cottage is."

Edith agreed eagerly. She said it would be a relief to her mind to know
that the girl was well cared for and happy.

"Oh, everybody is well cared for and happy on Dr. Galbraith's estate,"
said Angelica. "His tenants worship him. And they would rather be abused
by him than complimented by anybody else."

The cottage, covered with the honeysuckle from which it took its name,
stood in a large old-fashioned garden, at the edge of a fir plantation,
which sheltered it from the northeast wind at the back, and filled the air
about it with balsamic fragrance.

Edith and Angelica left the carriage at the end of the lane and walked up.

"What a lovely spot!" Edith exclaimed. "On a still bright day like this it
makes one realize what the Saints meant by 'holy calm,' I think I should
like to live in such a place, and never hear another echo from the outside
world."

"I suppose you would just like to add dear Mosley to the establishment,"
Angelica suggested.

Edith's heart contracted. She had not thought of her husband, and now when
she did it was with a pang, because she could not include him in her idea
of Eden.

The French girl was standing at the door of the cottage with a child in
her arms.

"Is Nurse Griffiths in?" Angelica asked.

Edith looked at the child. It should have been running about by that time,
but it was small and rickety, with bones that bent beneath its weight,
slight as it was. Edith had looked at it first with some interest, but its
unhealthy appearance repelled her. She managed, however, to speak to the
girl about it kindly.

"What is your baby's name?" she asked.

"Mosley Menteith," was the answer.

For a moment it seemed to Edith as if all the world were blotted out, and
then again the hum of bees, the chirrup of birds, the fall of a fir-cone,
the call of the cock-pheasant in the wood sounded obtrusively, making the
girl's voice as she continued speaking appear far off and indistinct.

"I called him after his father, then, didn't I?" she was saying to the
baby in good English, but with a French accent. "And he's to grow up, and
be a big strong fellow and beat his father, isn't he, for he's a bad, bad
man!"

Nurse Griffiths hearing voices in the porch came out.

"Hush, Louise," she said to the girl. "You've no call to talk in that way
now. You must excuse her," she added to the ladies. "She's had a bad
bringing up."

"I can't--believe you," Edith faltered. "Tell me--exactly."

"Well, it was in this way," the girl rejoined, speaking in the prosaic
tone in which her countrywomen are accustomed to discuss matters that
inspire ours with too much disgust to be mentioned. "Menteith came after
me, and my sister wanted money, so she made me believe that he couldn't
marry me because there was a law, to prevent it. She said he loved me, and
if I loved him well enough, it would be a noble thing to disregard the
law, and he gave her seventy-five pounds for that. I found her letter to
Menteith about it, and I've got it here," tapping the bosom of her gown.
"He took me abroad when he wanted to get rid of me, and left me in Paris
with five pounds in my pocket; but it was enough to bring me back. I was
sick when I landed at Dover, and they sent me to the workhouse; and when I
got well again I told them I had friends in Morningquest, and they gave me
a little help to get there; but I had to tramp most of the way, and I was
weak--I couldn't have got as far as I did if I hadn't wanted to kill them
both."

"Now, hush!" said Nurse Griffiths. "The Lord saved you from such a sin."

"The Lord!" said the girl derisively. "If the Lord had been inclined to
help me, he wouldn't have waited till I came to murder. It wasn't the Lord
saved _me_."

"She will say that, and I can't cure her," Nurse Griffiths declared. "But
I'm afraid you're feeling the heat, ma'am, and you are not very strong,"
she added, addressing Edith, who was clinging to the porch for support,
looking strangely haggard. "Won't you come in and sit down a bit?"

"No, thank you, it is nothing," Edith answered steadily, recovering
herself.

"Will you come and sit down with me on that seat?" she said to Louise,
indicating a rustic bench under an old pear tree at the end of the garden.
"I want to talk to you."

Nurse Griffiths and Angelica remained in the porch.

"Who is that lady, Miss?" the nurse asked when Edith was out of hearing.

"Lady Menteith," Angelica answered.

The woman threw up her hands. "O Lord! have mercy upon her--and upon us!
What a cruel, cruel shame! She's showing her the letter. Eh! it's enough
to kill her. You generally know all the mischief that's going, Miss! Why
did you bring her here?"

"I wish I had known this, then," said Angelica, whose heart was thumping
painfully. "If any harm comes of it, I shall always think it was my
fault."

"Well, there's no call to do that if you didn't know," the woman answered.
"I see she was a great lady myself, but I never thought it was _her_.
Eh! but it's the dirty men makes the misery."

On the way back, Edith stopped the carriage at the telegraph office, and
despatched a message to her husband to come to her, "Come at once."

They only arrived in time to dress hurriedly for dinner, and when they
went down to the drawing room they found Dr. Galbraith there with the
bishop and Mrs. Beale.

"Where have you two been the whole afternoon?" the latter asked.

"We had tea in the library at Fountain Towers," Angelica answered easily,
"and obtained some useful knowledge from your books."

Dr. Galbraith looked hard at her: "I wonder what devilment you've been up
to now?" he thought.

But Angelica's manner was as unconcerned as possible. Edith's was not,
however. Her face was flushed, her eyes unnaturally glittering, and she
became excited about trifles, and talked loudly at table; and in the
drawing room after dinner she could not keep still. Mrs. Beale asked
Angelica to play, and Angelica tried something soothing at first, but
Edith complained impatiently that those things always made her melancholy.
Then Angelica played some bars of patriotic music, stirring in the
extreme, but Edith stopped her again.

"That wearies my brain," she said, and began to pace about the room, up
and down, up and down. Her mother watched her anxiously. Angelica closed
the piano. Dr. Galbraith and the bishop came in from the dining room, and
then Edith declared that driving in the open air had made her so sleepy
she must go to bed.

Angelica noticed that Dr. Galbraith scrutinized her face sharply as he
shook hands with her.

"God bless you, my dear child," the bishop said when she kissed him, and
his lips moved afterward for some seconds as if he were in prayer. Her
mother followed her out of the room; and then silence settled on the three
who were left. The bishop was obviously uneasy. Dr. Galbraith's
good-looking plainness was softened by a serious expression which added
much to the attractiveness of his strong kind face. Angelica shivered, and
was about to break the spell of silence boldly in her energetic way, when
suddenly, and apparently overhead, a heavy bell tolled once.

It was only the cathedral clock striking the hour, but it sounded
portentously through the solemn stillness of the night, and with quickened
attention they all looked up and listened.

Slowly the big bell boomed forth ten strokes. Then came a pause; and then
the chime rolled through the room, a deafening volume of sound, in long
reverberations, from amidst which the constant message disentangled itself
as it were, but distinctly, although to each listener with a different
effect:

[Illustration: (musical notation); lyrics: He, watch-ing o-ver Is--ra--el,
slumbers not, nor sleeps.]

It awoke Dr. Galbraith from a train of painful reflections; it reassured
the bishop; and it made Angelica fret for Diavolo remorsefully.


CHAPTER VIII.


Angelica must have fallen asleep the moment she got into bed that night,
and just as instantly she began to dream. She had never hitherto felt a
throb of passion. She had given the best love of her life to her brother,
and had made no personal application of anything she had heard, or seen,
or read of lovers, so that the possibility of ever having one of her own
had never cost her a serious thought. But the excitement of that day and
the occupations had so wrought upon her imagination that when she slept
she dreamt, and in her dream she saw a semblance, the semblance of a man,
a changing semblance, the features of which she could not discern,
although she tried with frenzied effort, because she knew that when she
saw him fully face to face he would be hers. They were not in this world,
nor in the next. They were not eyen in the universe. They were simply each
the centre of a great light which formed a sphere about them, and
separated them from one another; and heaven and hell, and earth and sky,
and night and day, and life and death were, all added to the glory of
those spheres of light. And she knew _how_; but there is no word of
human speech to express it. She lay on light, she stood on light, she sat
on light, she swam in light; and wallowed, and walked, and ran, and
leaped, and soared, rolling along in her own sphere until the monotony
made her giddy; and all her endeavour was to reach her lover, not for
himself so much as because she knew that if their two lights could be
added in equal parts to each other and mingled into one, their combined
effulgence would make a pathway to heaven. But try as she would she could
not attain her object, and finally she became so exhausted by the struggle
that she was obliged to desist. The moment she did so, however, the other
sphere tamed of its own accord, and rolled up to her. "Dear me!" said
Angelica. "How easily things are done when the right time comes!" The
semblance now took shape, and kissed her. "How nice!" thought Angelica,
returning the kiss. "This is love. Love is life. I am his. He is mine.
Most of all, he is _mine!_" "No, we can't allow that!" said a chorus
of men from the earth. "You're beginning to know too much. You'll want to
be paid for your labour next just as well as we are, and that is
_unwomanly!_" But Angelica only laughed and kissed her lover. "Talk
does no good," she said; "this is the one thing the great man-boy-booby
understands at present!" So she kissed him again, and every time she
kissed him, he changed. He was Samson, Abraham, Lot, Antony, Caesar, Pan,
Achilles, Hercules, Jove; he was Lancelot and Arthur, Percival, Galahad
and Gawaine. He was Henry VIII., Richelieu, Robespierre, Luther, and
several Popes. He was David the Psalmist, beloved of the man-god of the
Hebrews. He was golden-haired Absalom, and St. Paul in his unregenerate
days. But he never was Solomon. She saw hundreds of women dividing Solomon
among them, and cherishing the little bits in the Woman's Sphere of their
day, and they offered her a portion, but she refused to take it. She said
she would have the whole of him or none at all, and they were horribly
shocked. They said: "Fie! you are no true woman! A woman is satisfied with
very little, and silently submits." But Angelica answered: "Rubbish! What
do you know of womanhood and truth? you talk like a bishop!" And the
clergy were dreadfully offended at this. They said she was all wrong. They
said it mildly. They shouted it rudely. They whispered it persuasively,
and then they blustered. "We are right, and you are wrong!" they
maintained. "Well, I have only your word for that," said Angelica, which
provoked them again. "We speak in the name of the Lord!" they answered.

"Oh, anybody could do that," said Angelica, "but it wouldn't prove that
they have the Lord's permission to use his name." Then they reminded her
that the true spirit of God had been bestowed upon them for transmission,
and she answered: "Yes, but it was taken from you again for your sins, and
confided to us; and wherever a virtuous woman is, there is the spirit of
God, and the will of God, and there only!" Then they drew off a little and
consulted, and when they spoke again they had lowered their tone
considerably. "But you will allow, I suppose, that we have done some good
in the world?" they said collectively. "Oh, yes," she answered, "you have
done your duty here and there to the best of your ability, but your
ability was considerably impaired by vice. However, you have brought the
world up out of the dark ages of physical force at our instigation, and
helped to prepare it for us; now step down gracefully, take your pensions
and perquisites, and hold your tongues. Men are the muscle, the hard
working material of the nation; women are the soul and spirit, the
directing intelligence." They were about to reply, but before they could
do so, a stentorian voice proclaimed:

"HOME IS THE WOMAN'S SPHERE!"

"Who are you?" said Angelica coolly. "I am the Pope of Rome," he answered,
strutting up to her with dignity. "And what do _you_ know about the
Woman's Sphere?" she said laughing. "I am informed of God!" he declared.
But she answered that she had much later information, and slammed the
doors of the Sphere in his face. Then she peeped through the keyhole, and
saw that the pope was in consultation with the Archbishops of Canterbury
and York, and two popular cardinals. They were very quiet at first, but
presently they began to quarrel. "Don't make such a noise," she shrieked
through the keyhole: "go away and be good, will you? We're very busy in
here, and you disturb us. We're revising the moral laws." The shock of
this intelligence electrified them, and while they stared at each other
helplessly, not knowing what to do, she armed herself with the vulgar
vernacular, which was the best weapon, she understood, to level at cant.
"Lord," she said to herself, "how Diavolo would enjoy this! I wish he was
here!" She found the work of the Sphere very heavy, and she tried to
remember the name of some saint, but for the life of her she couldn't
think of any, so she called upon Ouida and Rhoda Broughton. Then she
peeped through the keyhole again, and finding that the pope was listening,
she squirted water into his ear. The other Ecclesiastical Commissioners
remained in the background, looking anxious. "We're attending to man the
iniquitous now," she called to them kindly to relieve their minds. "He's
been too much for you, it seems, but we'll soon settle him." "You're a
nasty-minded woman," said the pope. "Always abusive, old candles and
vestments," Angelica retorted. "Candles and vestments--_in excess_"
said the Archbishop of York hurriedly. "Where?" And he went off to see
about them. "To the pure all things are pure," a powerful voice proclaimed
at that moment. "Ah, that is St. Paul!" said Angelica, surprised and
delighted, and then she shook hands with him. "The sacred duties of wife
and mother," one of the cardinals began to pipe--"There you are meddling
again," Angelica interrupted him rudely; "will you go away, and let us
mind our own business?" "This is all your fault," the pope said to the
Archbishop of Canterbury. The archbishop defended himself courteously, but
another quarrel seemed inevitable nevertheless. Before it could come off,
however, it suddenly appeared that if it were anything it was UNWOMANLY!
About that they were quite in accord; and having made the discovery they
went their several ways, shaking their several heads impressively. "Now I
shall have time to consider the state of the Sphere," said Angelica. "Just
wait till I can come and teach you your duty," she called to the women
there. "I am not Esther, most decidedly! But I am Judith. I am Jael. I am
Vashti. I am Godiva. I am all the heroic women of all the ages rolled into
one, not for the shedding of blood, but for the saving of suffering." They
did not understand her a bit, however, they were so dazed, and they all
looked askance at her. "I see," she said; "I shall have to save you in
spite of yourselves." But when she had looked a little longer, and seen
men, women, and children crowding like loathsome maggots together, she was
disheartened. "All this filth will breed a pestilence," she said, "and I
shouldn't be surprised if that pestilence were ME!" But just at that
moment the light went out, someone uttered a cry, and Angelica awoke. The
room was flooded with moonlight. "I am awake now," she said to herself,
"and that was a real cry. It was 'murder!' I think"--and she rose
intrepidly to rush to the rescue. She was going off at once, just as she
was, in her nightdress; but the house was so still at the moment that she
thought she might be mistaken. She was determined to go and see for
herself, however, in order to make sure; and having pinned up her hair,
she put on her shoes and stockings and a dressing gown, and opened the
door, her heart beating wildly all the time. It was a sickening sensation.
But as she listened she became aware of voices speaking naturally, and
people moving to and fro, which somewhat reassured her. She left the room,
however, and ran down the corridor.

At the farther end a bright shaft of light streamed across it from a
half-open door, and she heard Edith speaking wildly.

"My poor child! my poor child," Mrs. Beale answered with tears in her
voice. "Do try and calm yourself. Won't you tell us this story that is
troubling you now? You will feel better if you tell us."

"No, no," Edith answered quickly. "I will not tell you until he comes, any
of you. But _when_ he comes!" There was a pause, then she asked
feebly: "Doctor, what is the matter with my head?" But before he could
answer, she broke out into a stream of horrid imprecations.

Angelica put her hands to her ears, and flew back past her own room to the
top of the stairs. There she encountered the bishop. He was trembling. He
was at a loss. Nothing he had ever studied either in theology or
metaphysics had in the slightest degree prepared him for the state of
things in society which he was now being forced to consider.

"My dear child!" he exclaimed, "What are you doing here?"

"Oh, I'm frightened! I'm frightened!" Angelica cried, thumping him hard on
the chest with both fists. "Let us go away and hide ourselves!" She seized
his hand impetuously, and dragged him downstairs after her sideways, a
mode of descent which was more rapid than either safe or graceful for a
little fat bishop in evening dress.

"Come, come, come to the library with me, and talk about God and good
angels, and that kind of thing," she cried.

"But this is the middle of the night," the bishop objected.

"Well, and is there any time like the present?" Angelica exclaimed. "Come
at once--come and say nice soothing things from the psalms."

As she spoke, she dragged him across the hall and into the library from
whence he had just issued, and then slammed the door. The bishop reproved
her for this, and wanted her to go to bed, but she refused. "Go to bed,
and lie awake in the dark with horrid words about, how can you expect it?"
she demanded. "I shall not go to bed unless you come and sit beside me all
night long."

Poor Angelica! impetuous, imperious, but in that she was her father's
daughter, not saved by her wonderful intelligence from being fantastical.
There must inevitably have been an element of broad farce in the veriest
tragedy into which she might have been brought at that time, an element
which was rendered all the more conspicuous by her own inability to
perceive at the moment that she was behaving ridiculously, and making
others ridiculous. But the bishop himself was not conscious of any
absurdity or loss of dignity. It was only the inconvenience that he felt
just then. For he was fresh from a painful interview with Dr. Galbraith,
and every nerve was jarring in response to the horror that had come upon
him. His heart was wrung, and his conscience did not acquit him. He did
recognize now, however, that Angelica was in no fit state of mind to be
left alone, and sitting down beside a little table on which stood his
constant companion and friend for many years, a large quarto copy of the
Bible, he folded his hands upon it, seeming to pray, while he waited
patiently until she should have calmed herself.

Her indignation had driven her to seek a more popular form of relief than
the bishop had chosen. As she paced up and down the room in evident
agitation, every now and then stopping short to wring her hands when
terrible thoughts came crowding, she became in her own mind exceedingly
abusive.

She revised and enlarged her reply to that cardinal who had piped to her
earlier in the night about the sacred duties of wife and mother. "What do
_you_ know about 'the Sacred Duties of Wife and Mother'?" she jeered,
increasing her pace as her passion waxed. "Wait until you're a wife and
mother yourself, and then perhaps you'll be able to give an opinion; and,
meanwhile, attend to your own 'Sacred Duties.' You _will_ come poking
your nose into the Sphere where it's not wanted"--she shook her fist at
him--"with your theories." She exclaimed: "You meddling priest! What
you're afraid of is that there won't be slaves enough in the world to make
money for you; or poor enough to bear witness to your Christian charity!
You needn't be afraid, though. So long as we have _you_ there'll be
poverty in plenty!" Here she became conscious of the attitude of her
companion. The bishop blotted out the cardinal. His wrinkled hands, meekly
folded; his white head bowed; his benign face expressive of intense mental
suffering heroically borne, impressed her. "Resignation? No, not
resignation exactly," her thoughts ran on. "To be resigned is to
acquiesce. Resistance? Yes. To resist--but not to resist with rage. Be
firm, but be gentle." She sat down at last in an easy-chair and leaned
back, looking up at the ceiling. In a few minutes she was fast asleep.
When she awoke the room was empty, but outside she heard receding
footsteps, and springing up with characteristic impetuosity she followed
after "to see for herself."

The shutters were still closed in the library, and the lamps were burning;
but it was broad daylight in the hall, and a heavy squall of rain was
beating against the windows with mournful effect. Angelica saw a
manservant standing beside some baggage as she passed, and wondered who
had arrived.

At the foot of the stairs she overtook Dr. Galbraith, and caught his arm.

"Is Edith better?" she exclaimed.

Dr. Galbraith looked down at her, clasped both her hands in one of his as
they rested on his arm, and led her upstairs. Before they reached the top,
his firm, cool touch had steadied her nerves, and calmed her.

"This is your room, I think," he said, stopping when they reached it.

Angelica took the hint, and went in, but she did not shut the door. "You
might have told me, you pig, and then perhaps I should have been
satisfied," she reflected, standing just inside her room, holding her head
very high, and straining her ears to listen. She heard Dr. Galbraith go to
the end of the corridor, and then, as the sound of his footsteps ceased,
she knew that he must have gone into Edith's room. The house was
oppressively still. "I suppose I am to be tortured with suspense because I
am young," she thought, and then she followed Dr. Galbraith.

The shutters were still closed in Edith's room, and the gas was burning.
Nobody had thought of letting the daylight in. The door was open, and a
screen was drawn across it, but Angelica could see past the screen. She
saw Edith first. She was lying on her bed, still dressed, and sensible
now, but exhausted. Her yellow hair, all in disorder, fell over the pillow
to one side, and on the same side her mother sat facing her, rocking
herself to and fro, and holding Edith's hand, which she patted from time
to time in a helpless, piteous sort of way.

Edith was lying on her back, with her face turned toward Angelica. There
were deep lines of suffering marked upon it, and her eyes glittered
feverishly, but otherwise she was gray and ghastly, and old. It was the
horrible look of age that impressed Angelica. There were three gentlemen
present, the bishop, Dr. Galbraith, and Sir Mosley Menteith.

Edith was looking at her father. "That is why I sent for you all," she was
saying feebly--"to tell you, you who reprersent the arrangement of society
which has made it possible for me and my child to be sacrificed in this
way. I have nothing more to say to any of you--except"--she sat up in bed
suddenly, and addressed her husband in scathing tones--"except to you. And
what I want to say to you is--Go! go! Father! turn him out of the house.
Don't let me ever see that dreadful man again!"

She fell back on her pillow, white and still, and shut her eyes.

"My darling, you will kill yourself!" her mother exclaimed.

Dr. Galbraith stepped to the side of the bed hurriedly, and bent over her.
The bishop stood at the foot, holding on to the rail with both hands, his
whole face quivering with suppressed emotion. Menteith gave them a
vindictive glance, and then stole quietly away. Angelica had made her
escape, and was standing at the head of the stairs, wringing her hands.
She was trembling with rage and excitement. "I am Jael--I am Judith--No! I
am Cassandra," she was saying to herself. "I must speak!"

"I wish to God I hadn't answered that telegram so promptly--coming to be
made an exhibition of by a sick woman in her tantrums," Menteith reflected
as he walked down the corridor. "I'm surprised at Edith. But it is so like
a woman; you never can count upon them." Here he caught sight of Angelica,
and quite started with interest. "That's a deuced fine girl," he thought,
and followed her to the library instinctively.

A servant had just opened the shutters. Angelica went to one of the
windows and, throwing it up to the top, inhaled a deep breath of the fresh
morning air. The rain had stopped. The servant put out the lamps and
withdrew, after standing aside for a moment respectfully to allow Sir
Mosley Menteith to enter. The latter glanced round the room, but Angelica
was hidden by the curtain in the deep embrasure of the window. Menteith
bit his nails and stood still for some time. Then the bishop came,
followed by Dr. Galbraith, and walked straight up to him. It was a bad
moment for Sir Mosley Menteith. He tried to inspect his father-in-law
coolly, but his hand was somewhat tremulous as he raised it to twist the
ends of his little light moustache.

"My daughter wishes you to leave the house," the bishop said sternly;
"and--eh--I may say that I--that _we_--eh--her father and mother,
also wish you to go--eh--now, at once."

Angelica sprang from her hiding place. "And take that," she cried, "for a
present, you father of a speckled toad!" And seizing the heavy quarto
Bible from the table, she flung it with all her might full in his face. It
happened to hit him on the bridge of his nose, which it broke.


CHAPTER IX.


Later in the day Lord Dawne, who had ridden in, saw Dr. Galbraith's
carriage waiting before Mrs. Orton Beg's little house in the Close. He
reined in his horse, which was fidgety, and at the same moment Dr.
Galbraith came out.

"Nothing wrong here, I hope?" Lord Dawne inquired.

"No," was the curt response, "it is that poor child at the palace. I have
been up with her all night."

"What is the matter now?" Lord Dawne inquired.

"Now--it is her brain," the doctor answered; then stepped into his
carriage and was driven away.

Lord Dawne dismounted and met Mrs. Orton Beg, who was coming out with her
bonnet on.

"No hope, I suppose!" he said in a tone of deep commiseration.

"Oh, it is worse than death!" she answered. "I am going there now. Dr.
Galbraith says I shall be of use."

The bishop and Angelica spent some time in the library together that
morning. The bishop had sent for Angelica to talk to her, and she had come
to talk to the bishop; and, being quicker of speech than he, she had taken
the initiative.

"Did you ever feel like a horse with a bearing rein, champing his bit?"
she began the moment she burst into the room.

"No, I never did," said the bishop severely.

"Ah! then I can never make you understand how I feel now!" she said,
throwing herself on to a chair opposite to him, sideways, so that she
could clasp the back. "You look very unsympathetic," she remarked.

"It seems to me," the bishop began with increased severity, "that you have
no respect for anybody."

"No, I have not," she answered decidedly--"at least not for bishops and
doctors who let Menteith miscreants loose in society to marry whom they
please."

The bishop winced.

"I am sorry to have to reprove you seriously," he recommenced, shaking his
head. "But I feel that I should not be doing my duty if I neglected to
point out to you the extremely reprehensible nature of your conduct, first
in causing grievous distress of mind to Edith, in consequence of which
partly she is now lying dangerously ill upstairs--"

Angelica stopped him by suddenly assuming a dignified position on her
chair. She looked hard at him, and as she did so great tears came into her
eyes, and ran down her cheeks. "If I have done Edith any injury," she
exclaimed, "I shall never forgive myself."

"Well, well," said the bishop kindly--

"But do you think I was so much to blame?" Angelica demanded, interrupting
him. "I only did what you and Mrs. Beale and everybody else did--took it
for granted that she had married a decent man. But go on," said Angelica,
throwing herself back in her chair, and folding her arms. "What else have
I done?"

"You have grievously injured a fellow-creature."

"Oh,'fellow' if you like, and 'creature' too," said Angelica; "but the
injury I did him was a piece of luck for which I expect to be
congratulated."

"You took the sacred word of God," the bishop began--

"Because of the weight of it," Angelica interrupted again, "figuratively,
too, it was most appropriate. I call it poetical justice, whichever way
you look at it, and"--she burst into a sudden squall of rage--"if you nag
me any more I'll throw Bibles about until there isn't a whole one in the
house!"

The bishop looked at her steadily. "I shall say no more," he observed very
gently; "but I beg of you to reflect." Then he opened the quarto Bible and
began to read to himself. Angelica remained sitting opposite to him,
looking moodily at the floor; but now and then they stole furtive glances
at each other, and every time the bishop looked at Angelica he shook his
head.

"Things have gone wrong in the Sphere," slipped from Angelica at last.

"'The Sphere'?" said the bishop looking up. "What Sphere?"

"_The Woman's Sphere!_" Angelica answered solemnly, and then she told
him her dream. It took her exactly an hour to relate it with such comments
and elucidations as she deemed necessary, and the bishop heard her out.
When she finished he was somewhat exhausted; but he said that he thought
it a very remarkable dream.

"If you had been able to manage the Sphere, you see," Angelica concluded,
"and to regulate the extent of it, you would have been able to make it a
proper place for us to live in by this time."

"My dear child, you are talking nonsense!" the bishop exclaimed.

"Well, it may sound so to you at present," Angelica answered temperately;
"but there is a small idea in my mind which won't be nonsense when it
grows up." It snaps to the ear as it smacks to the tongue. All other berries
are tame beside it.

The plant is almost an evergreen; it loves the coverlid of the snow,
and will keep fresh through the severest winters with a slight
protection.

The frost leaves its virtues in it.

The berry is a kind of vegetable snow. How cool, how tonic, how melting,
and how perishable!

It is almost as easy to keep frost. Heat kills it, and sugar quickly breaks
up its cells.

Is there anything like the odor of strawberries? The next best thing to
tasting them is to smell them; one may put his nose to the dish while
the fruit is yet too rare and choice for his fingers. Touch not and taste
not, but take a good smell and go mad! Last fall I potted some of the
Downer, and in the winter grew them in the house. In March the berries
were ripe, only four or five on a plant, just enough, all told, to make
one consider whether it were not worth while to kill off the rest of the
household, so that the berries need not be divided. But if every tongue
could not have a feast, every nose banqueted daily upon them. They
filled the house with perfume. The Downer is remarkable in this respect.
Grown in the open field, it surpasses in its odor any strawberry
of my acquaintance.

And it is scarcely less agreeable to the taste. It is a very beautiful
berry to look upon, round, light pink, with a delicate, fine-grained
expression.

Some berries shine, the Downer glows as if there were a red bloom upon it.
Its core is firm and white, its skin thick and easily bruised, which
makes it a poor market berry, but, with its high flavor and
productiveness, an admirable one for home use. It seems to be as
easily grown as the Wilson, while it is much more palatable.

The great trouble with the Wilson, as everybody knows, is its rank
acidity. When it first comes, it is difficult to eat it without making
faces. It is crabbed and acrimonious. Like some persons, the Wilson will
not ripen and sweeten till its old age. Its largest and finest crop, if
allowed to remain on the vines, will soften and fail unregenerated, or with
all its sins upon it.

But wait till toward the end of the season, after the plant gets over its
hurry and takes time to ripen its fruit. The berry will then face the sun
for days, and, if the weather is not too wet, instead of softening will
turn dark and grow rich. Out of its crabbedness and spitefulness come the
finest, choicest flavors. It is an astonishing berry. It lays hold of
the taste in a way that the aristocratic berries, like the Jocunda or
the Triumph, cannot approximate to. Its quality is as penetrating as that
of ants and wasps, but sweet. It is, indeed, a wild bee turned into
a berry, with the sting mollified and the honey disguised.

A quart of these rare-ripes I venture to say contains more of the
peculiar virtue and excellence of the strawberry kind than can be
had in twice the same quantity of any other cultivated variety.

Take these berries in a bowl of rich milk with some bread,--ah, what
a dish!--too good to set before a king!

I suspect this was the food of Adam in Paradise, only Adam did not
have the Wilson strawberry; he had the wild strawberry that Eve plucked
in their hill-meadow and "hulled" with her own hands, and that,
take it all in all, even surpasses the late-ripened Wilson.

Adam is still extant in the taste and the appetite of most country boys;
lives there a country boy who does not like wild strawberries and
milk,--yea, prefer it to any other known dish?

I am not thinking of a dessert of strawberries and cream; this the
city boy may have, too, after a sort; but bread-and-milk, with the
addition of wild strawberries, is peculiarly a country dish, and
is to the taste what a wild bird's song is to the ear.

When I was a lad, and went afield with my hoe or with the cows, during the
strawberry season, I was sure to return at meal-time with a lining of berries
in the top of my straw hat. They were my daily food, and I could taste
the liquid and gurgling notes of the bobolink in every spoonful
of them; and to this day, to make a dinner or supper off a bowl of
milk with bread and strawberries,--plenty of strawberries,--well,
is as near to being a boy again as I ever expect to come.

The golden age draws sensibly near.
Appetite becomes a kind of delicious thirst,--a gentle and subtle
craving of all parts of the mouth and throat,--and those nerves of
taste that occupy, as it were, a back seat, and take little cognizance
of grosser foods, come forth, and are played upon and set vibrating.

Indeed, I think, if there is ever rejoicing throughout one's
alimentary household,--if ever that much-abused servant, the stomach,
says Amen, or those faithful handmaidens, the liver and spleen,
nudge each other delightedly, it must be when one on a torrid summer
day passes by the solid and carnal dinner for this simple Arcadian
dish.

The wild strawberry, like the wild apple, is spicy and high-flavored, but,
unlike the apple, it is also mild and delicious. It has the true rustic
sweetness and piquancy.

What it lacks in size, when compared with the garden berry, it makes up in
intensity. It is never dropsical or overgrown, but firm-fleshed and hardy.
Its great enemies are the plow, gypsum, and the horse-rake. It dislikes a
limestone soil, but seems to prefer the detritus of the stratified rock.
Where the sugar maple abounds, I have always found plenty of wild
strawberries. We have two kinds,--the wood berry and the field berry.
The former is as wild as a partridge.

It is found in open places in the woods and along the borders, growing
beside stumps and rocks, never in abundance, but very sparsely. It is
small, cone-shaped, dark red, shiny, and pimply.

It looks woody, and tastes so. It has never reached the table, nor made the
acquaintance of cream. A quart of them, at a fair price for human labor,
would be worth their weight in silver at least.

(Yet a careful observer writes me that in certain sections in the western
part of New York they are very plentiful.)
Ovid mentions the wood strawberry, which would lead one to infer that they
were more abundant in his time and country than in ours.

This is, perhaps, the same as the alpine strawberry, which is said to
grow in the mountains of Greece, and thence northward. This was probably
the first variety cultivated, though our native species would seem as
unpromising a subject for the garden as club-moss or wintergreens.

Of the field strawberry there are a great many varieties,--some
growing in meadows, some in pastures, and some upon mountain-tops.

Some are round, and stick close to the calyx or hull; some are long
and pointed, with long, tapering necks. These usually grow upon
tall stems.

They are, indeed, of the slim, linear kind. Your corpulent berry keeps
close to the ground; its stem and foot-stalk are short, and neck it
has none.
Its color is deeper than that of its tall brother, and of course
it has more juice. You are more apt to find the tall varieties upon knolls
in low, wet meadows, and again upon mountain-tops, growing in tussocks
of wild grass about the open summits.

These latter ripen in July, and give one his last taste of strawberries
for the season.

But the favorite haunt of the wild strawberry is an uplying meadow that
has been exempt from the plow for five or six years, and that has
little timothy and much daisy. When you go a-berrying, turn your steps
toward the milk-white meadows.

The slightly bitter odor of the daisies is very agreeable to the smell, and
affords a good background for the perfume of the fruit. The strawberry
cannot cope with the rank and deep-rooted clover, and seldom appears
in a field till the clover has had its day.

But the daisy with its slender stalk does not crowd or obstruct the plant,
while its broad white flower is like a light parasol that tempers
and softens the too strong sunlight.

Indeed, daisies and strawberries are generally associated.

Nature fills her dish with the berries, then covers them with the
white and yellow of milk and cream, thus suggesting a combination
we are quick to follow.

Milk alone, after it loses its animal heat, is a clod, and begets
torpidity of the brain; the berries lighten it, give wings to it,
and one is fed as by the air he breathes or the water he drinks.

Then the delight of "picking" the wild berries! It is one of the
fragrant memories of boyhood. Indeed, for boy or man to go a-berrying in
a certain pastoral country I know of, where a passer-by along the
highway is often regaled by a breeze loaded with a perfume of the
o'er-ripe fruit, is to get nearer to June than by almost any course
I know of.

Your errand is so private and confidential! You stoop low.

You part away the grass and the daisies, and would lay bare the inmost
secrets of the meadow. Everything is yet tender and succulent; the very
air is bright and new; the warm breath of the meadow comes up in your face;
to your knees you are in a sea of daisies and clover; from your
knees up, you are in a sea of solar light and warmth.

Now you are prostrate like a swimmer, or like a surf-bather reaching
for pebbles or shells, the white and green spray breaks above you;
then, like a devotee before a shrine or naming his beads, your
rosary strung with luscious berries; anon you are a grazing
Nebuchadnezzar, or an artist taking an inverted view of the
landscape.

The birds are alarmed by your close scrutiny of their domain. They hardly
know whether to sing or to cry, and do a little of both.

The bobolink follows you and circles above and in advance of you, and is
ready to give you a triumphal exit from the field, if you will
only depart.

"Ye boys that gather flowers and strawberries, Lo, hid within the grass, an
adder lies,"
Warton makes Virgil sing; and Montaigne, in his "Journey to Italy,"
says: "The children very often are afraid, on account of the snakes,
to go and pick the strawberries that grow in quantities on the
mountains and among bushes."

But there is no serpent here,--at worst, only a bumblebee's or yellow-jacket's
nest. You soon find out the spring in the corner of the field under the
beechen tree.

While you wipe your brow and thank the Lord for spring water, you
glance at the initials in the bark, some of them so old that they
seem runic and legendary.

You find out, also, how gregarious the strawberry is,--that the
different varieties exist in little colonies about the field.

When you strike the outskirts of one of these plantations, how quickly
you work toward the centre of it, and then from the centre out, then
circumnavigate it, and follow up all its branchings and windings!

Then the delight in the abstract and in the concrete of strolling and
lounging about the June meadows; of lying in pickle for half a day or more
in this pastoral sea, laved by the great tide, shone upon by the virile
sun, drenched to the very marrow of your being with the warm and
wooing influences of the young summer!

I was a famous berry-picker when a boy.

It was near enough to hunting and fishing to enlist me. Mother would
always send me in preference to any of the rest of the boys.

I got the biggest berries and the most of them. There was something of the
excitement of the chase in the occupation, and something of the charm and
preciousness of game about the trophies.

The pursuit had its surprises, its expectancies, its sudden disclosures,--in
fact, its uncertainties. I went forth adventurously. I could wander free
as the wind. Then there were moments of inspiration, for it always seemed
a felicitous stroke to light upon a particularly fine spot, as it
does when one takes an old and wary trout.

You discovered the game where it was hidden. Your genius prompted you. Another
had passed that way and had missed the prize.

Indeed, the successful berry-picker, like Walton's angler, is born,
not made.

It is only another kind of angling. In the same field one boy gets big
berries and plenty of them; another wanders up and down, and finds only
a few little ones. He cannot see them; he does not know how to divine
them where they lurk under the leaves and vines. The berry-grower knows
that in the cultivated patch his pickers are very unequal, the baskets
of one boy or girl having so inferior a look that it does not seem
possible they could have been filled from the same vines with certain
others.

But neither blunt fingers nor blunt eyes are hard to find; and as there
are those who can see nothing clearly, so there are those who can
touch nothing deftly or gently.

The cultivation of the strawberry is thought to be comparatively
modern.

The ancients appear to have been a carnivorous race: they gorged themselves
with meat; while the modern man makes larger and larger use of fruits
and vegetables, until this generation is doubtless better fed than any
that has preceded it. The strawberry and the apple, and such vegetables as
celery, ought to lengthen human life,--at least to correct its biliousness
and make it more sweet and sanguine.

The first impetus to strawberry culture seems to have been given
by the introduction of our field berry (_Fragaria Virginiana_)
into England in the seventeenth century, though not much progress
was made till the eighteenth.

This variety is much more fragrant and aromatic than the native berry
of Europe, though less so in that climate than when grown here.

Many new seedlings sprang from it, and it was the prevailing berry in
English and French gardens, says Fuller, until the South American
species, _grandiflora,_ was introduced and supplanted it.

This berry is naturally much larger and sweeter, and better adapted
to the English climate, than our _Virginiana._ Hence the English
strawberries of to-day surpass ours in these respects, but are
wanting in that aromatic pungency that characterizes most of our
berries.

The Jocunda, Triumph, Victoria, are foreign varieties of the Grandiflora
species; while the Hovey, the Boston Pine, the Downer, are natives of
this country.

The strawberry, in the main, repeats the form of the human heart, and perhaps,
of all the small fruits known to man, none other is so deeply and
fondly cherished, or hailed with such universal delight, as this
lowly but youth-renewing berry.

IV

IS IT GOING TO RAIN?

I suspect that, like most countrymen, I was born with a chronic anxiety
about the weather.

Is it going to rain or snow, be hot or cold, wet or dry?--are inquiries
upon which I would fain get the views of every man I meet, and I find that
most men are fired with the same desire to get my views upon the same set
of subjects. To a countryman the weather means something,--to a
farmer especially.

The farmer has sowed and planted and reaped and vended nothing but weather
all his life. The weather must lift the mortgage on his farm, and pay
his taxes, and feed and clothe his family. Of what use is his labor
unless seconded by the weather? Hence there is speculation in his eye
whenever he looks at the clouds, or the moon, or the sunset, or the
stars; for even the Milky Way, in his view, may point the direction of
the wind to-morrow, and hence is closely related to the price of butter.
He may not take the sage's advice to "hitch his wagon to a star,"
but he pins his hopes to the moon, and plants and sows by its
phases.

Then the weather is that phase of Nature in which she appears not the
immutable fate we are so wont to regard her, but on the contrary
something quite human and changeable, not to say womanish,--a creature
of moods, of caprices, of cross purposes; gloomy and downcast to-day, and
all light and joy to-morrow; caressing and tender one moment, and severe
and frigid the next; one day iron, the next day vapor; inconsistent,
inconstant, incalculable; full of genius, full of folly, full of extremes;
to be read and understood, not by rule, but by subtle signs and indirections,--by
a look, a glance, a presence, as we read and understand a man or
a woman.

Some days are like a rare poetic mood.
There is a felicity and an exhilaration about them from morning till
night. They are positive and fill one with celestial fire. Other days are
negative and drain one of his electricity.

Sometimes the elements show a marked genius for fair weather, as in the
fall and early winter of 1877, when October, grown only a little stern,
lasted till January. Every shuffle of the cards brought these mild,
brilliant days uppermost. There was not enough frost to stop the plow,
save once perhaps, till the new year set in. Occasionally a fruit-tree put
out a blossom and developed young fruit. The warring of the elements was
chiefly done on the other side of the globe, where it formed an
accompaniment to the human war raging there. In our usually merciless
skies was written only peace and good-will to men, for months.

What a creature of habit, too, Nature is as she appears in the
weather!
If she miscarry once she will twice and thrice, and a dozen times. In a
wet time it rains to-day because it rained yesterday, and will
rain to-morrow because it rained to-day. Are the crops in any part of the
country drowning? They shall continue to drown. Are they burning
up?
They shall continue to burn. The elements get in a rut and can't get out
without a shock. I know a farmer who, in a dry time, when the clouds
gather and look threatening, gets out his watering-pot at once, because,
he says, "it won't rain, and 'tis an excellent time to apply the water."
Of course, there comes a time when the farmer is wrong, but he is right
four times out of five.

But I am not going to abuse the weather; rather to praise it, and
make some amends for the many ill-natured things I have said, within
hearing of the clouds, when I have been caught in the rain or been
parched and withered by the drought.

When Mr. Fields's "Village Dogmatist" was asked what caused the rain,
or the fog, he leaned upon his cane and answered, with an air of
profound wisdom, that "when the atmosphere and hemisphere come
together it causes the earth to sweat, and thereby produces the
rain,"--or the fog, as the case may be.

The explanation is a little vague, as his biographer suggests, but it is
picturesque, and there can be little doubt that two somethings
do come in contact that produce a sweating when it rains or is foggy. More
than that, the philosophy is simple and comprehensive, which Goethe
said was the main matter in such things.
Goethe's explanation is still more picturesque, but I doubt if it
is a bit better philosophy.

"I compare the earth and her atmosphere," he said to Eckermann, "to a
great living being perpetually inhaling and exhaling. If she inhale
she draws the atmosphere to her, so that, coming near her surface, it is
condensed to clouds and rain. This state I call water-affirmative." The
opposite state, when the earth exhales and sends the watery vapors upward
so that they are dissipated through the whole space of the higher
atmosphere, he called "water-negative."

This is good literature, and worthy the great poet; the science of
it I would not be so willing to vouch for.

The poets, more perhaps than the scientists, have illustrated and held by
the great law of alternation, of ebb and flow, of turn and return, in nature.
An equilibrium, or, what is the same thing, a straight line, Nature abhors
more than she does a vacuum. If the moisture of the air were uniform, or
the heat uniform, that is, _in equilibrio,_ how could it rain? what would
turn the scale? But these things are heaped up, are in waves.
Lord Dawne, however, remained somewhat uncertain about the wisdom of this
recommendation, but as Dr. Galbraith had always managed his father's
foibles and other difficult matters at the castle with admirable tact and
delicacy he gave in.

The twins themselves soon perceived that there was something in the air.
During the day several strange priests arrived, all looking more or less
important; but they did not dine with the duke. The demeanour of the
latter was portentously solemn; Diavolo tried to take him out of himself,
but was reproved for his levity; and Father Ricardo and Lady Fulda went
about with exalted expressions of countenance, and looking greatly in need
of food and rest. Even in the early part of the evening nobody talked
much, and as the hours dragged on slowly toward midnight, the silence in
the castle became oppressive. The servants stole about on tiptoe, and in
pairs, being nervous about going into the big empty rooms, and down the
long shadowy corridors alone. There was, besides, a general inclination to
glance about furtively, as the hush of anxious expectancy settled upon
everybody. The twins felt it themselves, but they were everywhere all the
same, and if any particular preparations had been made, it would have been
at the risk of their discovering them. The night was sultry and very dark.
Dr. Galbraith and Lord Dawne stood together, stirring their coffee, at an
open window in the great drawing room.

"It is curiously still," said Lord Dawne, looking out. "It reminds me of
the legend of Nature waiting breathless for the happy release of an
imprisoned soul. I wonder how that poor child Edith is!"

"I would give--I would give anything that anybody could name," Dr.
Galbraith said slowly, "to be quite sure that she would pass into peace
to-night."

"Ah, poor girl! poor innocent girl!" Lord Dawne ejaculated; and then he
said, as if speaking to himself: "How long, O Lord, how long? We are so
powerless; we accomplish so little; the great sum of suffering never seems
lessened, do what we will!"

They were silent for some time after that, each occupied with painful
thoughts, and then Dr. Galbraith spoke with an effort to change the
direction of them.

"A storm to-night would be most opportune," he said.

"But things of that kind never do happen opportunely," Lord Dawne
rejoined. Just as he spoke, however, a brilliant flash of lightning lit up
vividly the precipitous side of the hill and the whole valley beneath them
for a moment.

"Let us hope it is a happy omen," said Dr. Galbraith.

Toward midnight, the various members of the household who were privileged
to be present at the coming ceremony began to assemble in the chapel; but
the very first to arrive found that the Heavenly Twins were before them,
and had secured the best seats for seeing and hearing. The chapel was dim
and even dark at the corners and at the farther end, there being no light
except from the candles which were burning upon the altar. Four priests
were kneeling before it at the rails, and a fifth came out of the sacristy
presently, and passed in. It was Father Ricardo, and as he made the
genuflection, it was seen that his face was irradiated by profound
emotion. He remained on his knees before the altar for some moments, then
he arose, and at the same instant the chapel glowed in every colour of the
prism. It was merely the play of the lightning through the stained glass
windows, but the unexpected effect, combined with the electricity in the
atmosphere and the tension of expectancy, wrought upon the nerves of all
present.

The Heavenly Twins snuggled up close to each other. Lady Fulda's lips
began to move rapidly in fervent prayer. Angelica noticed this, and as she
watched her aunt, her own lips began to move in imitation, either
involuntarily or in order to see if she could work them as fast.

But now the attention of all present became riveted upon the priests.
Father Ricardo descended the altar steps, and two of the others followed
him into the sacristy. They returned in the same order, but Father Ricardo
was carrying a basin of holy water and an aspergillus, with which he
proceeded to sprinkle all present, murmuring some inaudible adjuration the
while. One of the strange priests held an open book, and the other carried
some common carpenter's tools. During this interval the lightning flashed
again, and was seen to play about the chapel in fantastic figures before
the black darkness engulfed it. A long irregular roll of distant thunder
succeeded, and then, after a perceptible pause, there was a sound as of
hundreds of little feet pattering upon the roof. They were the advanced
guard of rain drops heralding the approaching storm, and halted instantly,
while the air in the chapel became perceptibly colder, and Dr. Galbraith
himself began, to experience sensations which made him fear it would have
been wiser if a less appropriate time had been chosen to lay the ghost.

The priest now approached the panel, upon one corner of which a ray of
light from the altar fell obliquely. Father Ricardo sprinkled it liberally
from where he stood on the ground, repeating some formula as he did so,
and then mounted a small pair of steps which had been placed there for the
purpose, and began to search for the screws. As he found them, he cut out
the hard putty that concealed them with a knife which one of the priests
had handed up to him for the purpose, and when he had accomplished this he
exchanged the knife for a screwdriver, and endeavoured to turn the screws;
but this required more strength than his ill-treatment of his poor body
had left in it, and he was obliged to relinquish the task to one of the
other priests. The two who had hitherto knelt at the altar now joined the
group in front of the panel. All five looked unhealthy and frightened, but
the one who next ascended the steps made a brave effort, and began to
remove the screws. He was a muscular man, but it was hard work, requiring
his full strength; and those present held their breath, and anxiously
watched him straining every sinew. And meanwhile the storm gathered
overhead, the lightning and thunder flashed and crashed almost
simultaneously, and the rain fell in torrents.

Having removed the screws, the priest descended the steps, which he pushed
on one side, and inserting the screwdriver into a crevice, prised the
panel outward. It resisted for some time, then, suddenly yielding, fell
forward on his head, and crashed noisily to the ground. All present
started and stared. The panel had concealed an aperture, a small niche
rudely made by simply removing some of the masonry. It was long and low,
and there lay in it what was unmistakably the body of a young child fully
dressed. The priests fell back, Lady Fulda's parted lips became set in the
act of uttering a word, the duke groaned aloud, while an expression of not
being able to believe their own eyes settled upon the countenances of Lord
Dawne, Dr. Galbraith, and the tutor, Mr. Ellis.

After the fall of the panel there was a pause, during which the very storm
seemed to wait in suspense. Nobody knew what to do next. But before they
had recovered themselves, Angelica broke the silence at the top of her
voice.

"You pushed me!" she angrily exclaimed.

"I did _not!_" Diavolo retorted.

"You did!"

"I didn't!"

Smack! And Miss Hamilton-Wells stood trembling with rage in the aisle.
Then she darted toward the aperture. The priests fell back. "I believe
it's all a trick," she said, reaching up and seizing the child by its
petticoats. Lady Fulda uttered an exclamation: the duke stood up, Angelica
tugged the figure out of the niche, looked at it, and then held it to the
light.

It was a huge wax baby-doll, considerably battered, which had once been a
favourite of her own. Diavolo came out of his seat, hugging himself, and
bursting in eloquent silence.

Father Ricardo wiped the perspiration from his face, Lord Dawne bit his
under lip, Lady Fulda gathered herself up from her knees, and stood
helpless. Everybody looked foolish, including the duke, whose eyebrows
contracted nervously; then suddenly that treacherous memory of his landed
him back in the old days. "By Jove!" he exclaimed aloud, "I'm more like
Angelica, and less of a damned fool than I thought!"

"Come, Diavolo! this is no place for us!" Angelica cried.

She seized his hand, and they both darted into the sacristy.

There was a bang, a scuffle, and then a dull thud; but the first to follow
was only in time to see eight finger-tips clinging for a moment outside to
the ledge of one of the narrow windows, which was open.

"They've jumped out!" "It's fourteen feet!" "Hush, listen!"

And then the congregation scattered hurriedly from the sacred precincts,
leaving the candles burning on the altar, the doll lying on the pavement,
the gaping niche and the fallen panel to bear witness to some of the
incredible phases through which the human race passes on its way from
incomprehensible nothingness to the illimitable unknown.


CHAPTER XI.


The Heavenly Twins had disappeared for the night. Those who ran round to
the outside wall of the sacristy to look for them found only a shred of
Angelica's gown hanging on a shrub. Their footsteps could be followed
cutting across the grass of a soppy lawn, but beyond that was a walk of
hard asphalt, and there all trace of them was lost. But Lady Fulda said
they must be found, and brought back; and sleepy servants were accordingly
aroused and set to search the grounds, while grooms were sent off on
horseback to scour the lanes. The storm was still muttering in the
distance, but above Morne the sky had cleared, and the crescent moon shone
out to facilitate the search. It was quite fruitless, however. From Morne
to Morningquest the messengers went, passing backward and forward from the
castle the whole night long. Lady Fulda never closed her eyes, and when
the party assembled at breakfast next morning they were all suffering from
want of sleep.

The duke, Lord Dawne, Dr. Galbraith, Mr. Ellis, Father Ricardo and the
four strange priests were at table.

"What _can_ have become of those children?" Lady Fulda was exclaiming
for the hundredth time, when the door opened, and the twins themselves
appeared hand in hand, smiling affably.

They looked as fresh as usual, and began to perform their morning
salutations with their habitual self-possession.

"Where have you been?" the duke asked sternly.

"In bed, of course," Angelica answered--"till we got up, at least. Where
else should we be?" She looked round in innocent inquiry.

"We just ran round to the garden door, you know," Diavolo explained, "and
went to bed. You couldn't expect us to stay out on a dripping night like
that!"

Lord Dawne afterward expressed the feeling of the whole household when he
declared: "Well, it never did and it never would have occurred to me to
look for them in their own rooms."

He remained behind with them in the breakfast room that morning when the
others withdrew.

"I suppose we shall be sent for directly," said Angelica resignedly.

Diavolo grinned.

"I say, how did you feel last night when it was all going on?" she
inquired.

"Awfully nice," he rejoined. "I had little warm shivers all over me."

"So had I," she said, "like small electric shocks; and I believed in the
ghost and everything. I expect that is why that kind of supernatural
business is kept up, because it makes people feel creepy and nice. You
can't get the same sensation in any other way, and I dare say there are
lots of people who wouldn't like to lose a whole set of sensations. I
should think they're the kind of people who collect the remains of a
language to save it when it begins to die out."

"I should say those were intelligent people," her uncle observed. Angelica
looked at him doubtfully.

"Well, at any rate, _I_ should like to believe in ghosts," said
Diavolo.

"So should I," said Angelica, "in fun, you know; and I was thinking so
last night; but then I could not help noticing what a fool Aunt Fulda was
making of herself, and grandpapa looked such a precious old idiot too.
They weren't enjoying it a bit, You were the only one of the family, Uncle
Dawne, who believed and looked dignified."

"Who told you I believed?" he asked.

"Well, I'm not sure that you did," Angelica answered. "But at all events,
your demeanour was respectful--hence the dignity, perhaps!"

"If yours were a little more respectful you would gain in dignity too, I
imagine," Diavolo observed.

Angelica boxed his ears promptly, whereupon her uncle took her to task
with unusual severity for him: "You are quite grown up now," he said. "You
talk like a mature woman, and act like a badly brought up child of ten.
You are always doing something ridiculous too. I should be ashamed to have
you at my house."

Angelica looked amazed. "Well, it is your fault as much as anybody's," she
burst out when she had recovered herself. "Why don't you make me something
of a life? You can't expect me to go on like this forever--getting up in
the morning, riding, driving, lessons, dressing, and bed. It's the life of
a lapdog."

She got up, and going to one of the windows, which was open, leant out.
Dawne and Diavolo followed her. As the former approached, she turned and
looked him full in the face for an answer.

"You will marry eventually--" he began.

"Like poor Edith?" she suggested. Dawne compressed his lips. "That was her
ideal," Angelica proceeded--"her own home and husband and family, someone
to love and trust and look up to. She told me all about it at Fountain
Towers under the influence of indignation and strong tea. And she was
_an exquisite womanly creature!_ No, thank you! It isn't safe to be
an _an exquisite womanly creature_ in this rotten world. The most
useful kind of heart for a woman is one hard enough to crack nuts with.
Nobody could wring it then."

"You would lose all finer feeling--" Lord Dawne began.

"Including the heartache itself," she supplemented.

"But what _do_ you want?" he asked.

"An object," she answered. "Something! something! something beyond the
mere getting up in the morning and going to bed at night, with an interval
of exercise between. I want to do something for somebody!"

Lord Dawne raised his eyebrows slightly. He had no idea that such a notion
had ever entered her head.

At this point, a servant was sent by his Grace to request the twins to be
so good as to go to him in the library at once.

"It is the inevitable inquiry," Angelica said resignedly. "Come with us,
uncle, _do_," she coaxed. "It is sure to be fun!"

Lord Dawne consented.

On the way, Diavolo remarked ambiguously: "But I don't understand yet how
there came to be a ghost as well!"

The inquiry led to nothing. The Heavenly Twins had determined not to
incriminate themselves, and they refused to answer a question. They stood
together, drawn up in line, with their hands behind their backs; changed
from one leg to the other when they were tired, and looked exceedingly
bored; but they would not speak.

The duke stormed, Lady Fulda entreated, Father Ricardo prayed, even Lord
Dawne begged them not to be obstinate; but it was all in vain, and their
grandfather, losing all patience, ordered them out of the room at last.

As they retired, Diavolo asked Father Ricardo if he were thinking of
thumbscrews.

"I feel quite sure that Angelica did not know the doll was there," Lord
Dawne said when the twins had gone. "I fancy it was a trick Diavolo had
played her."

Nobody mentioned the ghost again. It was felt to be a delicate subject.
Lady Fulda was made to take rest and a tonic, the duke was rigidly dieted,
and Father Ricardo was sent away for change of air. But the twins never
ceased from troubling. As soon as the duke's temper was restored, they
consulted the party collectively at afternoon tea in the oriel room on the
subject of Angelica's dissatisfaction. Diavolo affected to share it, but
that was only by way of being agreeable, as he inadvertently betrayed.

"I suppose I shall have to do something myself," he drawled in his lazy
way.

"I should think marriage is the best profession for you!" said Angelica
scornfully.

"Thank you. I will consider the question," Diavolo answered.

He was lying on the floor in his habitual attitude, with his head on the
windowsill, beaming about him blandly.

"The army is the only possible profession for a gentleman in your
position," the duke observed.

"Ah! that would not meet my views at present," Diavolo rejoined. "I am
advised that the army is not a career for a man. It is a career for a
machine--for a machine with a talent for converting other men into
machines, and I haven't the talent. I suppose, if Uncle Dawne _won't_
marry, I shall be obliged to go into the House of Lords eventually; but,
in the meantime, I should like to be doing some good in the world."

"You might go into Parliament," his uncle suggested.

"Ah, no!" Diavolo answered seriously. "I should never dream of undertaking
any of the actual work of the world while there are plenty of good women
to do it for me. My modest idea was to be a musician, or philanthropic
lecturer, or artist of some kind--something that gives pleasure, you know,
and the proceeds to be devoted to the indigent."

"May I ask if you belong to the peace party?" said the duke.

"I am a peace party myself," Diavolo answered. "Anybody who has lived as
long with Angelica as I have would be that--if he were not a party in
pieces."

"I admire your wit!" said Angelica sarcastically.

Diavolo bestowed a grateful smile upon her.

"But everything is easy enough for a man of intellect," she went on,
"whatever his position. It is _our_ powers that are wasted."

"Vanity! vanity!" said Lady Fulda. "Why do you suppose that your abilities
are superior?"

"I can prove that they are!" Angelica answered hotly. Then suddenly her
spirits went up, and she began to be sociable.

For a few days after this the Heavenly Twins appeared to be very busy.
They both wrote a great deal, and also practised regularly on their
violins and the piano; and they made some mysterious expeditions, slipping
away unattended into Morningquest. It was suspected that they had
something serious on hand, but Father Ricardo being away, the spy-system
was suspended, so nobody knew. One morning, however, big placards, which
had been printed in London, appeared on every hoarding in Morningquest,
announcing in the largest type that Miss Hamilton-Wells and Mr. Theodore
Hamilton-Wells would give an entertainment in the Theatre for the benefit
of certain of the city charities, which were specified. The programme
opened with music, which was to be followed by a speech from Mr. Theodore
Hamilton-Wells, and to conclude with a monologue, entitled "The Condemned
Cell," to be delivered by Miss Hamilton-Wells, who had written it
specially for the occasion. This was the news which greeted Mr.
Hamilton-Wells and Lady Adeline upon their return from their voyage round
the world; and, like everybody else, when they first saw the placard,
which was as they drove from the station through Morningquest to the
castle, they exclaimed: "Who on earth is Mr. _Theodore_
Hamilton-Wells?"

The old duke was rather taken with the idea of the entertainment. It was
something quite in the manner of his youth, and if it had not been for the
inopportune arrival of his son-in-law and daughter, the Heavenly Twins
would probably have carried out their programme under his distinguished
patronage. Dr. Galbraith was all in favour of letting them do it, Lord
Dawne was neutral; but Mr. Hamilton-Wells objected. He caused the
announcement to be cancelled, and handsomely indemnified the various
charities named to be recipients of the possible proceeds.

Diavolo did not much mind. He was prepared to do all that Angelica
required of him, but when the necessity was removed he acknowledged that
it would have been rather a bore, and afterward spoke disrespectfully of
the whole project as "The Condemned Sell."

Angelica raged.

But the energy which Mr. Hamilton-Wells had collected during his travels
was not yet expended. He summoned a family council at Morne to sit upon
the twins, and having tried them in their absence they were sent for to be
sentenced without the option of appeal. Angelica was to be presented at
Court and otherwise "brought out" in proper splendour immediately; while,
with a view to going into the Guards eventually, Diavolo was to be sent to
Sandhurst, as soon as he had passed the necessary examinations, about
which Mr. Ellis said there would be no difficulty _if Diavolo chose_.

Diavolo shrugged his shoulders, and said that _he_ didn't mind.

Angelica said nothing, but her brow contracted. Diavolo's indifference was
putting an end to everything. It was not that she had any actual objection
to going to Court and coming out, but only to the way in which the
arrangement had been made--to the coercion in fact. She was too shrewd,
however, not to perceive that, in consequence of Diavolo's attitude,
rebellion on her part would be both undignified and ineffectual. So she
held her peace, and went to walk off her irritation in the grounds alone;
and there she encountered her fast friend of many years' standing, Mr.
Kilroy of Ilverthorpe, who was just riding in to lunch at the castle. When
he saw her he dismounted, and Angelica snatched the whip from his hand,
and clenching her teeth gave the horse a vicious slash with it, which set
him off at a gallop into the woods.

Mr. Kilroy let him go, but he was silent for some seconds, and then he
asked her in his peculiarly kindly way: "What is the matter, Angelica?"

"Marry me!" said Angelica, stamping her foot at him--"Marry me, _and
let me do as I like_."


CHAPTER XII.


Evadne spent eighteen months in Malta without going from the island for a
change, but at the end of her second cold season she went to Switzerland
with the Malcomsons and Sillingers, and Colonel Colquhoun went on leave at
the same time alone to some place which he vaguely described as "The
Continent."

When they met again, Evadne noticed a change in him, and she feared it was
a change for the worse. He was out of health, out of temper, and
depressed.

He had spent most of his leave at Monte Carlo, but he did not say so at
first; he was waiting for her to question him. Had she done so he would
have said something snappy about feminine curiosity; as she did not do so,
he lost his temper, went off to the mess, and drank too much.

It is a terrible thing for a man to be brought into constant association
with a woman who never does anything--in a small way--that he can carp at,
or says a word he can contradict. She robs him of all his most cherished
illusions; she shakes his confidence in his own infallible strength,
discernment, knowledge, judgment, and superiority generally; she outrages
his prejudices on the subject of what a woman ought to be, and leaves him
nothing with which to compare himself to his own advantage. This is the
miserable state to which Evadne was rapidly reducing poor Colonel
Colquhoun--not, certainly, of malice-prepense, but with the best
intentions. He did not like her opinions, therefore she ceased to express
opinions in his presence. He took exception to many of her observations,
and so she let the words, "I think" fall out of her vocabulary, and
confined her talk to a clear narrative of occurrences, uninterrupted by
comments. It was an art which she had to acquire, for she had no natural
aptitude for it, her faculty of observation having hitherto served as an
instrument with which she could extract lessons from life; a lens used for
the purpose of collecting data on exact scientific principles as matter
from which to draw conclusions; but with practice she became an adept in
the art of describing the one while at the same time withholding the
other, so that her conversation interested Colonel Colquhoun without,
however, giving him anything to cavil at. It was like a dish exactly
suited to his taste, but delicate to insipidity because his palate was
hardened to pepper. When she returned from Switzerland she gave him
details of her own doings which were interesting enough to take him out of
himself, until one day, when, unfortunately, it occurred to him that she
was making an effort to entertain him, and he determined that he would
_not_ be entertained--like a child, indeed! She might be a deuced
clever woman and all that, but he wasn't going to have those feminine airs
of superiority; so he snubbed her into silence, and having succeeded, he
became exceedingly annoyed because she would not talk. It was opposition
he wanted, not acquiescence, but she was not clever enough with all her
cleverness, this straightforward nineteenth century young woman, to
understand such subtleties. She had always heard that the contrariness of
women was a cause of provocation, and she could never have been made to
comprehend that the removal of the cause would be even more provoking than
the contrariness. The great endeavour of her life had been to cultivate or
acquire the qualities in which she understood that women are wanting, and
when she succeeded she expected to please; but she found Colonel Colquhoun
as "peculiar" on the subject as her father had been when she proved that,
although of the imbecile sex, she could do arithmetic. Colonel Colquhoun
waited a week to snap at her for asking him how he had spent his leave,
but he was obliged at last to give up all hope of being questioned; and
then he felt himself aggrieved. She certainly took no interest in him
whatever, he reflected; she didn't care a rap if he went to the dogs
altogether--in fact, she would probably be rather glad, because then she
would be free. She would waste a world of attention and care upon any
dirty little child she picked up in the street, but for him she had
neither thought nor sympathy. Clearly she wanted to get rid of him; and
she should get rid of him. He felt he was going to the bad; he
_would_ go to the bad; it was all her fault, and she should know it.
He had treated her with every possible consideration; she had never had
the slightest cause for complaint. He had even stuck up for her against
his own interests with her old ass of a father--and, by Jove! while she
was treating him, Colonel Colquhoun, commanding a crack corps, and one of
the smartest officers in her Majesty's service, with studied indifference,
she was thinking affectionately of the same dear old pompous portly papa,
to whom, in fact, she had never borne the slightest ill-will, Colonel
Colquhoun was sure, although he had done her the injury of allowing her to
marry herself to the kind of man whom it was against her principles even
to countenance.

But at this point his irritation overflowed. He could contain himself no
longer.

"Do you know where I spent most of my leave?" he asked one morning at
breakfast.

"No," Evadne answered innocently.

"At Monte Carlo," he said, with emphasis.

"I hope you enjoyed it. I have always heard it is a very beautiful place,"
she responded tranquilly.

"It's effect on my exchequer has not been beautiful," he observed grimly.

"Indeed," she answered. "Is it so expensive?"

"Gambling is, when you lose," he declared.

"Ah, yes. I forgot the tables at Monte Carlo," she remarked quite
cheerfully. "I suppose you can lose a great deal there."

"You can lose all you possess."

"Well, yes--of course you could if you liked; but I am quite sure you
would never do anything so stupid."

He looked at her curiously: "You don't disapprove of gambling, then?" he
asked.

"I? Oh--of course, I disapprove. But then you see I have no taste for it"--
this was apologetically said to signify that she did not in the least mean
to sit in judgment upon him.

"You have a fine taste for driving people to such extremities, then," he
asserted.

She looked at him inquiringly.

"What I mean is this," he explained: "that if I could have been with you,
I should not have gone to Monte Carlo."

Evadne kept her countenance--with some difficulty; for just as Colonel
Colquhoun spoke she recollected a conversation they had had at breakfast
one morning under precisely similar circumstances, that is to say, each in
their accustomed place and temper, she placidly content, he politely
striving to bottle up the chronic form of irritation from which he
suffered at that time of the day so as to keep it nice and hot for the
benefit of his officers and men; for Colonel Colquhoun in the presence of
a lady was one person, but Colonel Colquhoun in his own orderly room or on
parade was quite another. While in barracks he was in the habit of
swearing with the same ease and as unaffectedly as he made the responses
in church. He probably did it from a sense of duty, because he had been
brought up in that school of colonel, and in the course of years would
naturally come to consider that a volley of oaths on parade, although not
laid down in the "Drill Book," was as much a part of his profession of
arms as "Good Lord, deliver us!" is of the church service. At all events,
he did both punctually at the right time and place, and never mixed his
week-day oaths with his Sunday responses, which was creditable. In fact,
he seemed to have the power of changing his frame of mind completely for
the different occasions, and would be prepared in advance, as was evident
from the fact that if a glove went wrong just as he was starting for
church, he would send up for another pair amiably; but if a similar
accident happened when he was on his way to parade, he would swear at his
man till he surprised him--the man not being a soldier servant.

But what very nearly made Evadne smile was the distinct recollection she
had of having asked him earnestly to join her party in Switzerland when he
went on leave, and of his answering "No," he should not care about that,
and suggesting that she should meet him at Monaco instead. She fancied he
must have a bad memory, but of course she said nothing; what is the use of
saying anything? She thought, however, that had she been under his orders,
the invitation to go to Monaco would have been a command, and the present
implied reproach a direct accusation.

She was most anxious that he should understand perfectly that she quite
shrank from interfering with him in any way.

One night--not knowing if he were at home or not--she had occasion to go
downstairs for a book she had forgotten. There was no noise in the house,
and consequently when she opened the drawing room door she was startled to
find that the room was brilliantly lighted, and that there was a party
assembled there, consisting of three strange ladies, loud in appearance,
one or two men she knew, and some she had not seen before. The majority
were seated at a card-table playing, while the rest stood round looking on;
and they must have reached a momentous point in the game, for Evadne had
not heard a sound to warn her of their presence before she saw them.

Colonel Colquhoun was one of those looking on at the game, and one of the
first to see her. He changed countenance, and came forward hastily,
conscious of the strange contrast she presented to those women, flushed
with wine and horrid excitement, gambling at the table, as she stood
there, rooted to the spot with surprise, in her gold-embroidered,
ivory-white draperies, with a half-inquiring, half-bewildered look on her
sweet grave face. It was a vision of holiness breaking in upon a scene of
sin, and his one thought was to get her away. There was always that saving
grace of the fallen angel about him, he never depreciated what he had
lost, but sometimes sighed for it sorrowfully.

"I beg your pardon for this intrusion," Evadne said, looking at him
pointedly so as to ignore the rest of the party. "I did not even know that
you were at home. I had forgotten a book and came for it. Will you kindly
give it to me? It is called"--she hesitated. "But it does not matter," she
added quickly. "I will read something else. Good-night!" and she turned,
smiling, without seeming to have seen anyone but Colonel Colquhoun, and
calmly swept from the room.

"St. Monica the Complacent, I should say," one of the men suggested.

"Or Vengeance smiling with murder in her mind," said another.

"No, a saint for certain," jeered one of the women.

"Why not say an angel at once?" cried another.

"I shouldn't have thought Colquhoun could keep either upon the premises,"
laughed the third.

"The lady you are pleased to criticise is my wife, gentlemen," said
Colonel Colquhoun, lashing out at them suddenly, his face blazing with
rage.

The women tried not to be abashed; the men apologised; but the game was
over for that night, and the party broke up abruptly.

When they had gone, Colonel Colquhoun looked about for Evadne's book, and
found it--not a difficult matter, for she had a bad habit of leaving the
book she was reading open and face downward on any piece of furniture not
intended to hold books, by preference a chair where somebody might sit
down upon it. This one happened to be upon the piano stool. Colonel
Colquhoun glanced at the title as he picked it up, and reading "A Vision
of Sin," understood why she had shrunk from naming it. He appreciated her
delicacy, but he feared the discernment which had shown her the necessity
for it, and he determined to disarm her resentment next day by making her
a proper apology at once.

He went down late to breakfast, expecting black looks at least, and was
surprised to find her calm and equable as usual, and busy, keeping his
breakfast hot for him.

"I wish to apologise to you for the scene you witnessed last night," he
began ceremoniously.

"I think I owe _you_ an apology for taking you unawares like that,"
she interrupted cheerfully, giving her best attention to a very full cup
of coffee she was carefully carrying round the table to him. "But I hope
you understand it was an accident."

"I quite understood," he answered sullenly. "But I want to explain that
those people were also here by accident--at least I was not altogether
responsible for their presence. They were a party from one of the yachts
in the harbour. I met them here at the door, just as I was coming in last
night, and they forced themselves in uninvited. I hope you believe that I
would not willingly bring anyone to the house whom I could not introduce
to you."

"Oh, I quite believe it," she answered cordially. "You are always most
kind, most considerate. But I fear," she added with concern, "that my
being here must inconvenience you at times. Pray, pray, do not let that be
the case. I should regret it infinitely if you did."

When Evadne left Colonel Colquhoun he threw himself into a chair, and sat,
chin on chest, hands in pockets, legs stretched out before him, giving way
to a fit of deep disgust. He had always had a poor opinion of women, but
now he began to despair of them altogether. "And this comes of letting
them have their own way, and educating them," he reflected. "The first
thing they do when they begin to know anything is to turn round upon us,
and say we aren't good enough. And, by Jove! if we aren't, isn't it their
fault? Isn't it their business to keep us right? When a fellow's had too
good a time in his youth and suffered for it, what is to become of him if
he can't find some innocent girl to believe in him and marry him? But
there soon won't be any innocent girls. Here am I now, a most utter bad
lot, and Evadne knows it, and what does she do? apologizes for appearing
at an inopportune time! Now, Beston's wife would have brought the house
about his ears if she'd caught him with that precious party I had here
last night; and that's what a woman ought to do. She ought to _care_.
She ought to be jealous, and cry her eyes out. She ought to go down on her
knees and take some trouble to save a fellow's soul,"--it may be
mentioned, by the way, that if Evadne _had_ done so, Colonel
Colquhoun would certainly have sworn at her "for meddling with things
she'd no business to know anything about"; it was, however, not what he
_would_ but what she _should_ have done that he was considering
just then. "That's the proper thing to do," he concluded; "and I don't see
what's to be gained by this _cursed_ cold-blooded indifference."

Articulation ceased here because the startling theory that a vicious
dissipated man is not a fallen angel easily picked up, but a frightful
source of crime and disease, recurred to him, with the charitable
suggestion that a repentant woman of his own class would be the proper
person to reform him; ideas which settled upon his soul and silenced him,
being full-fraught for him with the cruel certainty that the end of "all
_true_ womanliness" is at hand.


CHAPTER XIII.


Colonel Colquhoun's first interest in Evadne lasted longer than might have
been expected, but the pleasure of hanging about her palled on him at
last, and then he fell off in his kind attentions. This did not happen,
however, as soon as it would have done by many months, had their relations
been other than they were. It began in the usual way. Little acts to which
she had become accustomed were omitted, resumed again, and once more
omitted, intermittently, then finally allowed to drop altogether. When the
change had set in for certain, Evadne regretted it. The kindly feeling for
each other which had come to exist between them was largely due to her
appreciation of the numberless little attentions which it had pleased him
to pay her at first; they had not palled upon her, and she missed
them--not as a wife would have done, however, and that she knew; so that
when the fact that there _was_ to be a falling off became apparent,
she found in it yet another cause for self-congratulation, and one that
was great enough to remove all sting from the regret. What she was
prepared to resent, however, was any renewal of the gush after it had once
ceased; she required to be held, in higher estimation than a toy which
could be dropped and taken up again upon occasion--and Colonel Colquhoun
gave her an opportunity, and, what was worse, provoked her into saying so,
to her intense mortification when she came to reflect.

There was to be a ball at the palace one night, a grand affair, given in
honour of that same fat foreign prince who had stayed with her people at
Fraylingay, just before she came out, and had been struck by the promise
of her appearance. In the early days of their acquaintance, Colonel
Colquhoun had given her some very beautiful antique ornaments of Egyptian
design, and she determined to wear them on this occasion for the first
time, but when she came to try them with a modern ball-dress, she found
that they made the latter look detestably vulgar. She therefore determined
to design a costume, or to adapt one, which should be more in keeping with
the artistic beauty of her jewels; and this idea, with the help of an
excellent maid, she managed to carry out to perfection--which, by the way,
was the accident that led her finally to adopt a distinctive style of
dress, always a dangerous experiment, but in her case, fortunately, so
admirably successful, that it was never remarked upon as strange by people
of taste; only as appropriate.

Colonel Colquhoun dined at mess on the night of the ball, and did not
trouble himself to come back to escort her. He said he would meet her at
the palace, and if he missed her in the crowd there were sure to be plenty
of other men only too glad to offer her an arm. He had been most
particular never to allow her to go anywhere alone at first--rather
inconveniently so sometimes, but that she had endured. She was reflecting
upon the change as she sat at her solitary dinner that evening, and she
concluded by cheerfully assuring herself that she really was beginning to
feel quite as if she were married. But, afterward, when she found herself
in the drawing room it seemed big and bare, and all the more so for being
brilliantly lighted; and suddenly she felt herself a very little body all
alone. There was no bitterness in the feeling, however, because there was
no one neglecting her whose duty it was to keep her heart up; but it
threatened to grow upon her all the same, and in order to distract herself
she went downstairs to choose a bouquet. She had several sent her for
every occasion, and they were always arranged on a table in the hall so
that she might take the one that pleased her best as she went out. There
were more than usual this evening. There was one from the Grand Duke,
which she put aside. There was one from Colonel Colquhoun; he always
ordered them by the dozen for the different ladies of his acquaintance.
She picked it up and looked at it. It was beautiful in its way, but sent
at the florist's discretion, not chosen to suit her gown, and it did not
suit it, so that she could not have used it in any case; yet she put it
down with a sigh. The next was of yellow roses, violets, and maidenhair
fern, very sweet: "With Lord Groome's compliments," she read on the card
that was tied to it. "He is back then, I suppose," she thought. "Funny old
man! Very sorry, but you won't do." The next was from one of the
survivals, a man she loathed. She thought it an impertinence for him to
have sent her flowers at all, and she threw them under the table. The rest
she took up one after the other, reading the cards attached, and admiring
or disapproving of the different combinations without gratitude or
sentiment; she knew that self-interest prompted all of the offerings that
were not merely sent just because it was the right thing to do. There was
one unconventional bunch, however, that caught her eye. It was a mere
handful of scarlet flowers tied loosely together with ribbons of their own
colour and the same tint of green as their leaves. It was from a young
subaltern in the regiment, a boy whom she had noticed first because he was
the same age and somewhat resembled her brother Bertram; and had grown to
like afterward for himself. His flowers were the first to arouse her to
any expression of pleasure. The arrangement was new at the time, but it
has since become common enough.

"He has done that for me himself," she thought. "The boy respects me; I
shall wear his flowers. They are beautiful too," she added, holding them
off at arm's length to admire them--"the most beautiful of them all."

Almost immediately after she returned to the drawing room Mr. Price was
shown in. He was the person of all others at that moment in Malta whom she
would most have liked to see could she have chosen, and her face
brightened at once when he entered.

"I have been dining with your husband's regiment to-night," he explained,
"and I found that he could not come back for you to take you to the ball,
and that therefore you would have to go alone; and so I ventured to come
myself and offer you my escort."

"Ah, how good you are," Evadne cried, feeling fully for the first time how
much she had in heart been dreading the ordeal of having perhaps to enter
the ball room alone.

The old gentleman surveyed her some seconds in silence.

"That's original," he said at last, with several nods, approvingly. "And
that is a glorious piece of colour you have in your hand."

"Is it not?" she said, "More beautiful, I think, than all my jewels."

"Yes," he agreed. "The flowers are the finishing touch."

The ball had begun when Evadne arrived, and the first person she
encountered was the Grand Duke, who begged for a dance and took her to the
ball room. A dance was just over, however, when they entered; the great
room was pretty clear, and the prince led her toward the further end where
their hostess was sitting. There also was Colonel Colquhoun and and some
other men, with Mrs. Guthrie Brimston. He had forgotten Evadne for the
moment, and she was so transformed by the beautiful lines of her dress
that he had looked at her hard and admiringly before he recognized her.

"Who's the lady with the Grand Duke?" Major Livingston exclaimed.

"Someone with a figure, by Jove!" said old Lord Groome.

"Loyal Egypt herself!" said Mrs. Guthrie Brimston, always apt at analogy.

"Why--it's Evadne," said Colonel Colquhoun.

"Didn't know his own wife, by Jove!" Lord Groome exclaimed.

"Well, I hope I may be pardoned at that distance," rejoined Colonel
Colquhoun, confused.

"Royal Egypt is more audacious than ever," Mrs. Guthrie Brimston observed.
"This is a new departure. The reign of ideas is over, I fancy, and a
season of social success has begun."

Evadne danced till daylight, unconscious of the sensation she had made,
and rose next morning fresh for the usual occupations of the day; but her
success of the night before had so enhanced her value in Colonel
Colquhoun's estimation that he was inclined to be effusive. He returned to
lunch, and hung about her the whole afternoon, much to her inconvenience,
because he had not been included in her arrangements for some months now,
and she could not easily alter them all at once just to humour a whim of
his. But wherefore the whim? A very little reflection explained it. Looks
and tones, and words of her partners of the previous night, not heeded at
the time, recurred to her now, and made her thoughtful. But she could not
feel flattered, for it was obviously not her whom Colonel Colquhoun was
worshipping, it was success; and the perception of this truth suggested a
possible parallel which made her shudder. It was a terrible glimpse of
what might have been, what certainly _would_ have been, had not the
dear Lord vouchsafed her the precious knowledge which had preserved her
from the ultimate degradation and the insult which such an endeavour as
that of a woman she had in her mind, to win back a wandering husband,
would have resulted in. "_I_ do not care," was her happy thought when
she began to see less of Colonel Colquhoun; "but a wife would feel
differently, and it would have been just the same had I been his wife."

He was not surprised to find her submit to his extra attentions in silence
that afternoon, because that was her way, but he found her looking at him
once or twice with an expression of deep thought in her eyes which
provoked him at last to ask what it was all about. "I was thinking," she
answered, "of that painful incident in 'La Femme de Trente-ans' where
Julie so far forgot her self-respect as to try to re-awaken her husband's
admiration for her by displaying her superior accomplishments at the house
of that low woman Mme. de Sèricy. You remember she made quite a sensation
by her singing: 'Et son mari, réveillé par le rôle qu'elle venait de
jouer, voulut l'honorer d'une fantaiste, et la prit en goût, comme il eût
fait d'une actrice.' I was thinking, when she became aware of what she had
done, of the degradation of the position in which she had placed herself,
how natural it was that she should despise herself, cursing marriage which
had brought her to such a pass, and wishing herself dead."

Colonel Colquhoun became moody upon this: "My having stayed at home with
you this afternoon suggests a parallel, I suppose, after your success of
last night?" he inquired. "And you have been congratulating yourself all
day," he proceeded, summing up judicially, "upon having escaped the
degradation of being the wife _de facto_ of a man whose admiration
for you could cool--under any circumstances; and be revived again by a
vulgar success in society?"

She was silent, and he got up and walked out of the house. From where she
sat she saw him go, twirling his blond moustache with one hand, and
viciously flipping at the flowers as he passed with the stick he carried
in the other; a fine, soldier-like man in appearance certainly, and not
wanting in intelligence since he could comprehend her so exactly; but, oh,
how oppressive when in an admiring mood! This was her first feeling when
she got rid of him; but a better frame of mind supervened, and then she
suffered some mortification for having weakly allowed herself to be
betrayed into speaking so plainly. Yet it proved in the long run to have
been the kindest thing she could have done, for Colonel Colquhoun was
enlightened at last, and they were both the better for the understanding.

But the house seemed full of him still after he had gone that day, and she
therefore put on her things, and, hurrying out into the fresh air, walked
quickly to the house of a friend where she knew she would find a fresh
moral atmosphere also. She was soul sick and depressed. Life felt like the
end of a ball, all confusion, and every carriage up but her own; torn
gowns, worn countenances, spiteful remarks, ill-natures evident that were
wont to be concealed, disillusion generally, and headache threatening.
But, fortunately, she found a friend at home to whom she instinctively
went for a moral tonic. This was a new friend, Lady Clan, the widow of a
civil service official, who wintered all over the world as a rule, but
had passed that year at Malta. She was a cheery old lady, masculine in
appearance, but with a great, kind, womanly heart, full of sympathetic
insight--and a good friend to Evadne, whom she watched with fear as well
as with interest, doubting much what would come of all that was
unaccustomed about the girl. The sweet grave face and half shut eyes
appealed to her pathetically that afternoon in particular, as Evadne sat
silently beside her, busy with a piece of work she had brought. Lady Clan
thought her lips too firm; as she grew older, she feared her mouth would
harden in expression if she were not happy--and the old lady inwardly
prayed Heaven that she might be saved from that; prayed that little arms
might come to clasp her neck, and warm little lips shower kisses upon
_her_ lips to keep them soft and smiling, lest they settled into
stony coldness, and forgot the trick.


CHAPTER XIV.


Malta was enlivened that winter by a joke which Mrs. Guthrie Brimston made
without intending it.

Mrs. Malcomson had written a book. She was thirty years of age, and had
been married to a military man for ten, and in that time she had seen some
things which had made a painful impression upon her, and suggested ideas
that were only to be got rid of by publishing them. Ideas cease to belong
to an author as soon as they are made public; if they are new at all
somebody else appropriates them; and if they are old, as alas! most of
them must be at this period of the world's progress, the mistaken
reproducer is relieved of the horrid responsibility by kindly critics
promptly. Blessed is the man who never flatters himself with the delusion
that he can do anything original; for, verily, he shall not be
disappointed.

Mrs. Malcomson made no such vain pretension. She was quite clever enough
to know her own limitations exactly. Out of everyday experiences everyday
thoughts had come to her, and when she began to embody such thoughts in
words she did not suppose that their everyday character would be altered
by the process. She had not met any of those perfect beings who inhabit
the realms of ideal prose fiction, and make no mistakes but such as are
necessary to keep the story going; nor any of the terrible demons, without
a redeeming characteristic, who haunt the dim confines of the same
territory for purposes invariably malign; and it never occurred to her to
pretend that she had. She was a simple artist, educated in the life-school
of the world, and desiring above everything to be honest--a naturalist, in
fact, with positive ideas of right and wrong, and incapable of the
confusion of mind or laxity of conscience which denies, on the one hand,
that wrong may be pleasant in the doing, or claims, on the other, with
equal untruth, that because it is pleasant it must be, if not exactly
right, at all events, excusable. As Higli's huge frame disappeared through
a gateway, Nahoum motioned Lacey to a divan, and summoned a slave for
cooling drinks. Lacey's eyes now watched him with an innocence nearly as
childlike as his own. Lacey well knew that here was a foe worthy of the
best steel. That he was a foe, and a malignant foe, he had no doubt
whatever; he had settled the point in his mind long ago; and two letters
he had received from Lady Eglington, in which she had said in so
many words, "Watch Nahoum!" had made him vigilant and intuitive. He knew,
meanwhile, that he was following the trail of a master-hunter who covered
up his tracks. Lacey was as certain as though he had the book of Nahoum's
mind open in his hand, that David's work had been torn down again--and
this time with dire effect--by this Armenian, whom David trusted like a
brother. But the black doors that closed on the truth on every side only
made him more determined to unlock them; and, when he faltered as to
his own powers, he trusted Mahommed Hassan, whose devotion to David had
given him eyes that pierced dark places.

"Surely the God of Israel has smitten Claridge Pasha sorely. My heart will
mourn to look upon his face. The day is insulting in its brightness,"
continued Nahoum with a sigh, his eyes bent upon Lacey, dejection in
his shoulders.

Lacey started. "The God of Israel!" How blasphemous it sounded from the lips
of Nahoum, Oriental of Orientals, Christian though he was also!

"I think, perhaps, you'll get over it, pasha. Man is born to trouble, and
you've got a lot of courage. I guess you could see other people bear a
pile of suffering, and never flinch."

Nahoum appeared not to notice the gibe. "It is a land of suffering,
effendi," he sighed, "and one sees what one sees."
"Have you any idea, any real sensible idea, how those cotton-mills got
afire?" Lacey's eyes were fixed on Nahoum's face.

The other met his gaze calmly. "Who can tell! An accident, perhaps, or--"

"Or some one set the mills on fire in several places at once--they say the
buildings flamed out in every corner; and it was the only time in a
month they hadn't been running night and day. Funny, isn't it?"
"It looks like the work of an enemy, effendi." Nahoum shook his head
gravely. "A fortune destroyed in an hour, as it were. But we shall get the
dog. We shall find him. There is no hole deep enough to hide him from us."

"Well, I wouldn't go looking in holes for him, pasha.

"He isn't any cave-dweller, that incendiary; he's an artist--no palace is
too unlikely for him.

No, I wouldn't go poking in mud-huts to find him."
"Thou dost not think that Higli Pasha--" Nahoum seemed startled out
of equanimity by the thought.

Lacey eyed him meditatively, and said reflectively: "Say, you're an artist,
pasha. You are a guesser of the first rank.

But I'd guess again. Higli Pasha would have done it, if it had ever occurred
to him; and he'd had the pluck. But it didn't, and he hadn't. What I
can't understand is that the artist that did it should have done
it before Claridge Pasha left for the Soudan.

Here we were just about to start; and if we'd got away south, the job would
have done more harm, and the Saadat would have been out of the way. No,
I can't understand why the firebug didn't let us get clean away; for if
the Saadat stays here, he'll be where he can stop the underground
mining."

Nahoum's self-control did not desert him, though he fully realised
that this man suspected him. On the surface Lacey was right. It would
have seemed better to let David go, and destroy his work afterwards,
but he had been moved by other considerations, and his design was
deep.

His own emissaries were in the Soudan, announcing David's determination
to abolish slavery, secretly stirring up feeling against him, preparing for
the final blow to be delivered, when he went again among the southern
tribes. He had waited and waited, and now the time was come. Had he,
Nahoum, not agreed with David that the time had come for the slave-trade
to go? Had he not encouraged him to take this bold step, in the sure
belief that it would overwhelm him, and bring him an ignominious death,
embittered by total failure of all he had tried to do?

For years he had secretly loosened the foundations of David's work, and
the triumph of Oriental duplicity over Western civilisation and
integrity was sweet in his mouth. And now there was reason to
believe that, at last, Kaid was turning against the Inglesi. Everything
would come at once. If all that he had planned was successful, even this
man before him should aid in his master's destruction.

"If it was all done by an enemy," he said, in answer to Lacey, at last,
"would it all be reasoned out like that? Is hatred so logical? Dost thou
think Claridge Pasha will not go now? The troops are ready at Wady-
Halfa, everything is in order; the last load of equipment has gone.
Will not Claridge Pasha find the money somehow? I will do what I can.
My heart is moved to aid him."
"Yes, you'd do what you could, pasha," Lacey rejoined enigmatically, "but
whether it would set the Saadat on his expedition or not is a question.
But I guess, after all, he's got to go. He willed it so. People may try
to stop him, and they may tear down what he does, but he does at
last what he starts to do, and no one can prevent him--not any one. Yes,
he's going on this expedition; and he'll have the money, too." There was
a strange, abstracted look in his face, as though he saw something
which held him fascinated.

Presently, as if with an effort, he rose to his feet, took the red fez from
his head, and fanned himself with it for a moment. "Don't you forget
it, pasha; the Saadat will win. He can't be beaten, not in a thousand years.
Here he comes."
Nahoum got to his feet, as David came quickly through the small gateway
of the court-yard, his head erect, his lips smiling, his eyes sweeping
the place. He came forward briskly to them. It was plain he had not
heard the evil news.

"Peace be to thee, Saadat, and may thy life be fenced about with safety!"
said Nahoum.

David laid a hand on Lacey's arm and squeezed it, smiling at him
with such friendship that Lacey's eyes moistened, and he turned his
head away.

There was a quiet elation in David's look. "We are ready at last," he said,
looking from one to the other. "Well, well," he added, almost boyishly,
"has thee nothing to say, Nahoum?"
Nahoum turned his head away as though overcome. David's face grew
instantly grave. He turned to Lacey. Never before had he seen Lacey's face
with a look like this. He grasped Lacey's arm. "What is it?" he asked
quietly. "What does thee want to say to me?"
But Lacey could not speak, and David turned again to Nahoum. "What is
there to say to me?" he asked. "Something has happened--what is it?
. . . Come, many things have happened before. This can be no worse.
Do thee speak," he urged gently.

"Saadat," said Nahoum, as though under the stress of feeling, "the
cotton-mills at Tashah and Mini are gone--burned to the ground."
For a moment David looked at him without sight in his eyes, and his
face grew very pale. "Excellency, all in one night, the besom of destruction
was abroad," he heard Nahoum say, as though from great depths below
him.
He slowly turned his head to look at Lacey. "Is this true?" he asked at last
in an unsteady voice. Lacey could not speak, but inclined his
head.

David's figure seemed to shrink for a moment, his face had a withered look,
and his head fell forward in a mood of terrible dejection.

"Saadat! Oh, my God, Saadat, don't take it so!" said Lacey brokenly,
and stepped between David and Nahoum. He could not bear that the stricken
face and figure should be seen by Nahoum, whom he believed to be
secretly gloating.

"Saadat," he said brokenly, "God has always been with you; He hasn't
forgotten you now.

"The work of years," David murmured, and seemed not to hear.

"When God permits, shall man despair?" interposed Nahoum, in a voice
that lingered on the words. Nahoum accomplished what Lacey had failed to
do. His voice had pierced to some remote corner in David's nature, and
roused him. Was it that doubt, suspicion, had been wakened at last? Was
some sensitive nerve touched, that this Oriental should offer Christian
comfort to him in his need--to him who had seen the greater light?
Or was it that some unreality in the words struck a note which excited a
new and subconscious understanding? Perhaps it was a little of all three.

He did not stop to inquire. In crises such as that through which he
was passing, the mind and body act without reason, rather by the primal
instinct, the certain call of the things that were before reason was.

"God is with the patient," continued Nahoum; and Lacey set his teeth
to bear this insult to all things.

But Nahoum accomplished what he had not anticipated. David straightened
himself up, and clasped his hands behind him.

By a supreme effort of the will he controlled himself, and the colour came
back faintly to his face. "God's will be done," he said, and looked
Nahoum calmly in the eyes. "It was no accident," he added with conviction.
"It was an enemy of Egypt."

Suddenly the thing rushed over him again, going through his veins like
a poisonous ether, and clamping his heart as with iron. "All to do over
again!" he said brokenly, and again he caught Lacey's arm.

With an uncontrollable impulse Lacey took David's hand in his own
warm, human grasp.

"Once I thought I lost everything in Mexico, Saadat, and I understand
what you feel. But all wasn't lost in Mexico, as I found at last,
and I got something, too, that I didn't put in. Say, let us go from here.
God is backing you, Saadat.

Isn't it all right--same as ever?"
David was himself again. "Thee is a good man," he said, and through the
sadness of his eyes there stole a smile. "Let us go," he said. Then
he added in a businesslike way: "To-morrow at seven, Nahoum.

There is much to do."
He turned towards the gate with Lacey, where the horses waited.

Mahommed Hassan met them as they prepared to mount. He handed David a
letter.
It was from Faith, and contained the news of Luke Claridge's death.
Everything had come at once. He stumbled into the saddle with a moan.

"At last I have drawn blood," said Nahoum to himself with grim
satisfaction, as they disappeared. "It is the beginning of the end.
It will crush him-I saw it in his eyes. God of Israel, I shall rule again
in Egypt!"

CHAPTER XXIX

THE RECOIL

It was a great day in the Muslim year. The Mahmal, or Sacred Carpet, was
leaving Cairo on its long pilgrimage of thirty-seven days to Mecca and
Mahomet's tomb. Great guns boomed from the Citadel, as the gorgeous
procession, forming itself beneath the Mokattam Hills, began its
slow march to where, seated in the shade of an ornate pavilion, Prince Kaid
awaited its approach to pay devout homage.

Thousands looked down at the scene from the ramparts of the Citadel, from
the overhanging cliffs, and from the tops of the houses that hung on
the ledges of rock rising abruptly from the level ground, to which the last
of the famed Mamelukes leaped to their destruction.

Now to Prince Kaid's ears there came from hundreds of hoarse throats the
cry: "Allah! Allah! May thy journey be with safety to Arafat!" mingling
with the harsh music of the fifes and drums.

Kaid looked upon the scene with drawn face and lowering brows. His retinue
watched him with alarm. A whisper had passed that, two nights before,
the Effendina had sent in haste for a famous Italian physician lately
come to Cairo, and that since his visit Kaid had been sullen and
depressed. It was also the gossip of the bazaars that he had suddenly
shown favour to those of the Royal House and to other reactionaries, who
had been enemies to the influence of Claridge Pasha.

This rumour had been followed by an official proclamation that no Europeans
or Christians would be admitted to the ceremony of the Sacred Carpet.

Thus it was that Kaid looked out on a vast multitude of Muslims, in which
not one European face showed, and from lip to lip there passed the word,
"Harrik--Harrik--remember Harrik! Kaid turns from the infidel!"
They crowded near the great pavilion--as near as the mounted
Nubians would permit--to see Kaid's face; while he, with eyes wandering
over the vast assemblage, was lost in dark reflections. For a year he
had struggled against a growing conviction that some obscure disease was
sapping his strength. He had hid it from every one, until, at last,
distress and pain had overcome him. The verdict of the Italian expert was
that possible, but by no means certain, cure might come from an operation
which must be delayed for a month or more.

Suddenly, the world had grown unfamiliar to him; he saw it from afar; but
his subconscious self involuntarily registered impressions, and he moved
mechanically through the ceremonies and duties of the immediate
present.

Thrown back upon himself, to fight his own fight, with the instinct of
primary life his mind involuntarily drew for refuge to the habits
and predispositions of youth; and for two days he had shut himself
away from the activities with which David and Nahoum were associated.

Being deeply engaged with the details of the expedition to the
Soudan, David had not gone to the Palace; and he was unaware of the
turn which things had taken.

Three times, with slow and stately steps, the procession wound in a circle
in the great square, before it approached the pavilion where the
Effendina sat, the splendid camels carrying the embroidered tent
wherein the Carpet rested, and that which bore the Emir of the
pilgrims, moving gracefully like ships at sea.

Naked swordsmen, with upright and shining blades, were followed by
men on camels bearing kettle-drums.

After them came Arab riders with fresh green branches fastened to the
saddles like plumes, while others carried flags and banners emblazoned with
texts and symbols. Troops of horsemen in white woollen cloaks, sheikhs and
Bedouins with flowing robes and huge turbans, religious chiefs of the
great sects, imperturbable and statuesque, were in strange contrast to the
shouting dervishes and camel-drivers and eager pilgrims.

At last the great camel with its sacred burden stopped in front of Kaid
for his prayer and blessing. As he held the tassels, lifted the
gold- fringed curtain, and invoked Allah's blessing, a half-naked
sheikh ran forward, and, raising his hand high above his head, cried
shrilly:
"Kaid, Kaid, hearken!"
Rough hands caught him away, but Kaid commanded them to desist; and
the man called a blessing on him; and cried aloud:

"Listen, O Kaid, son of the stars and the light of day. God hath exalted
thee. Thou art the Egyptian of all the Egyptians. In thy hand is power.
But thou art mortal even as I. Behold, O Kaid, in the hour that I was
born thou wast born, I in the dust without thy Palace wall, thou amid the
splendid things. But thy star is my star. Behold, as God ordains, the
Tree of Life was shaken on the night when all men pray and cry
aloud to God--even the Night of the Falling Leaves. And I watched the falling
leaves; and I saw my leaf, and it was withered, but only a little withered,
and so I live yet a little. But I looked for thy leaf, thou who wert
born in that moment when I waked to the world. I looked long, but I
found no leaf, neither green nor withered. But I looked again upon my
leaf, and then I saw that thy name now was also upon my leaf, and that it
was neither green nor withered; but was a leaf that drooped as when an
evil wind has passed and drunk its life.

Listen, O Kaid! Upon the tomb of Mahomet I will set my lips, and it may
be that the leaf of my life will come fresh and green again. But thou--wilt
thou not come also to the lord Mahomet's tomb? Or"--he paused and raised
his voice--"or wilt thou stay and lay thy lips upon the cross of the
infidel? Wilt thou--"
He could say no more, for Kaid's face now darkened with anger. He made a
gesture, and, in an instant, the man was gagged and bound, while a sullen
silence fell upon the crowd. Kaid suddenly became aware of this change
of feeling, and looked round him. Presently his old prudence and
subtlety came back, his face cleared a little, and he called aloud, "Unloose
the man, and let him come to me." An instant after, the man was on his
knees, silent before him.

"What is thy name?" Kaid asked.

"Kaid Ibrahim, Effendina," was the reply.

"Thou hast misinterpreted thy dream, Kaid Ibrahim," answered the Effendina.
"The drooping leaf was token of the danger in which thy life should
be, and my name upon thy leaf was token that I should save thee from death.
Behold, I save thee. Inshallah, go in peace! There is no God but God,
and the Cross is the sign of a false prophet. Thou art mad.
God give thee a new mind. Go."
The man was presently lost in the sweltering, half-frenzied crowd; but he
had done his work, and his words rang in the ears of Kaid as he rode
away.

A few hours afterwards, bitter and rebellious, murmuring to himself,
Kaid sat in a darkened room of his Nile Palace beyond the city. So few
years on the throne, so young, so much on which to lay the hand
of pleasure, so many millions to command; and yet the slave at his
door had a surer hold on life and all its joys and lures than he,
Prince Kaid, ruler of Egypt!

There was on him that barbaric despair which has taken dreadful
toll of life for the decree of destiny.

Across the record of this day, as across the history of many an Eastern
and pagan tyrant, was written: "He would not die alone." That the world
should go on when he was gone, that men should buy and sell and laugh and
drink, and flaunt it in the sun, while he, Prince Kaid, would be done
with it all.

He was roused by the rustling of a robe. Before him stood the Arab
physician, Sharif Bey, who had been in his father's house and his own for
a lifetime. It was many a year since his ministrations to Kaid had ceased;
but he had remained on in the Palace, doing service to those who received
him, and--it was said by the evil-tongued--granting certificates of death
out of harmony with dark facts, a sinister and useful figure.
His beard was white, his face was friendly, almost benevolent, but his eyes
had a light caught from no celestial flame.

His look was confident now, as his eyes bent on Kaid.

He had lived long, he had seen much, he had heard of the peril that
had been foreshadowed by the infidel physician; and, by a sure
instinct, he knew that his own opportunity had come.

He knew that Kaid would snatch at any offered comfort, would cherish any
alleviating lie, would steal back from science and civilisation
and the modern palace to the superstition of the fellah's hut. Were
not all men alike when the neboot of Fate struck them down into the terrible
loneliness of doom, numbing their minds? Luck would be with him that
offered first succour in that dark hour. Sharif had come at the right moment
for Sharif.

Kaid looked at him with dull yet anxious eyes. "Did I not command that
none should enter?" he asked presently in a thick voice.

"Am I not thy physician, Effendina, to whom be the undying years?
When the Effendina is sick, shall I not heal?

Have I not waited like a dog at thy door these many years, till that time
would come when none could heal thee save Sharif?"
"What canst thou give me?"
"What the infidel physician gave thee not--I can give thee hope. Hast
thou done well, oh, Effendina, to turn from thine own people? Did not
thine own father, and did not Mehemet Ali, live to a good age? Who were
their physicians? My father and I, and my father's father, and his
father's father."
"Thou canst cure me altogether?" asked Kaid hesitatingly.

"Wilt thou not have faith in one of thine own race? Will the infidel love
thee as do we, who are thy children and thy brothers, who are to thee as
a nail driven in the wall, not to be moved? Thou shalt live-- Inshallah,
thou shalt have healing and length of days!"
He paused at a gesture from Kaid, for a slave had entered and stood
waiting.

"What dost thou here? Wert thou not commanded?" asked Kaid.

"Effendina, Claridge Pasha is waiting," was the reply.

Kaid frowned, hesitated; then, with a sudden resolve, made a gesture of
dismissal to Sharif Bey, and nodded David's admittance to the slave.

As David entered, he passed Sharif Bey, and something in the look on the
Arab physician's face--a secret malignancy and triumph--struck him
strangely. And now a fresh anxiety and apprehension rose in his mind as he
glanced at Kaid. The eye was heavy and gloomy, the face was clouded,
the lips once so ready to smile at him were sullen and smileless now.
David stood still, waiting.

"I did not expect thee till to-morrow, Saadat," said Kaid moodily at last.

"The business is urgent?" "Effendina," said David, with every nerve at
tension, yet with outward self-control, "I have to report--" He paused,
agitated; then, in a firm voice, he told of the disaster which had
befallen the cotton-mills and the steamer.
As David spoke, Kaid's face grew darker, his fingers fumbled vaguely
with the linen of the loose white robe he wore. When the tale was
finished he sat for a moment apparently stunned by the news, then
he burst out fiercely:
"Bismillah, am I to hear only black words to-day? Hast thou naught
to say but this--the fortune of Egypt burned to ashes!"
David held back the quick retort that came to his tongue.
"Half my fortune is in the ashes," he answered with dignity. "The
rest came from savings never made before by this Government. Is the
work less worthy in thy sight, Effendina, because it has been
destroyed? Would thy life be less great and useful because a blow
took thee from behind?"
Kaid's face turned black. David had bruised an open wound.
"What is my life to thee--what is thy work to me?"
"Thy life is dear to Egypt, Effendina," urged David soothingly,
"and my labour for Egypt has been pleasant in thine eyes till now."

"Egypt cannot be saved against her will," was the moody response.
"What has come of the Western hand upon the Eastern plough?" His
face grew blacker; his heart was feeding on itself.
"Thou, the friend of Egypt, hast come of it, Effendina."
"Harrik was right, Harrik was right," Kaid answered, with stubborn
gloom and anger. "Better to die in our own way, if we must die,
than live in the way of another. Thou wouldst make of Egypt another
England; thou wouldst civilise the Soudan--bismillah, it is folly!"

"That is not the way Mehemet Ali thought, nor Ibrahim. Nor dost
thou think so, Effendina," David answered gravely. "A dark spirit
is on thee.
Wouldst thou have me understand that what we have done together,
thou and I, was ill done, that the old bad days were better?"
"Go back to thine own land," was the surly answer. "Nation after
nation ravaged Egypt, sowed their legions here, but the Egyptian
has lived them down. The faces of the fellaheen are the faces of
Thotmes and Seti. Go back. Egypt will travel her own path. We are
of the East; we are Muslim. What is right to you is wrong to us.
Ye would make us over-- give us cotton beds and wooden floors and
fine flour of the mill, and cleanse the cholera-hut with disinfectants,
but are these things all?
How many of your civilised millions would die for their prophet
Christ?
Yet all Egypt would rise up from the mud-floor, the dourha-field
and the mud-hut, and would come out to die for Mahomet and Allah--ay,
as Harrik knew, as Harrik knew! Ye steal into corners, and hide
behind the curtains of your beds to pray; we pray where the hour
of prayer finds us --in the street, in the market-place, where the
house is building, the horse being shod, or the money-changers are.
Ye hear the call of civilisation, but we heap the Muezzin--"
He stopped, and searched mechanically for his watch. "It is the
hour the Muezzin calls," said David gently. "It is almost sunset.
Shall I open the windows that the call may come to us?" he added.
While Kaid stared at him, his breast heaving with passion, David
went to a window and opened the shutters wide.
The Palace faced the Nile, which showed like a tortuous band of
blue and silver a mile or so away. Nothing lay between but the brown
sand, and here and there a handful of dark figures gliding towards
the river, or a little train of camels making for the bare grey
hills from the ghiassas which had given them their desert loads.It was in this way there hummed in her brain
on that hot afternoon results of the faith which had been held by her
ancestors; of the teaching which she had herself received directly; with a
curious glimmering of truths that were already half apparent to her own
acute faculties; an incongruous jumble all leavened by the natural
instincts of a being rich in vitality, and wholesome physical force. With
the recollection of the old days came back the shadow of the old
sensation. The interval was forgotten for the moment. She saw before her
the man whose every glance and word had thrilled her with pleasurable
emotion, whom it had been a joy just to be with and see. It was the same
man leaning there, fine of form and feature, with a dreamy look in his
blue eyes softening the glitter which was apt to be hard and stony. If
only--At that moment Colonel Colquhoun looked round at her, hesitated,
although his face flushed, and then exclaimed: "Evadne, you _do_ love
me!"

"I _did_ love you," she answered.

He sat down beside her, close to her: "Will you forget all this?" he said.
"Will you forget my past; will you make me a different man? Will you? You
can." He half stretched out his hand to take hers, but then drew back, a
gentleman always in that he would not force her inclinations in any way.
"If I do not change, we can be again as we are now, and there would be no
harm done. Will you consent, Evadne, will you--my wife--will you?"

He leant forward so close that her senses were troubled--too close, for
she pushed her chair back to relieve herself of the oppression, and the
act irritated him. Another moment, a little more persuasion and caressing
of the voice, which he could use so well to that effect, and she might
have given in to the kind of fascination which she had felt in his
presence from the first; but when she moved he drew back too, his
countenance clouded, and her own momentary yearning to be held close,
close; to be kissed till she could not think; to live the intoxicating
life of the senses only, and not care, was over.

"We could never be again as we are now," she answered. "There would be no
return for me. A wife cannot feel as I do. And you--you would not change.
Or at least you would only change your habits; the consequences of them
you will carry to your grave with you, and I doubt if you could ever
change your habits once for all. You were a different man for a while when
I first came out, but you soon relapsed. No. I can never regret my present
attitude; but I have seen several times already how much reason I should
have to regret--a different arrangement."

"You make light of love," he said. "Many a girl has died of a
disappointment."

"Many a girl is a fool," she answered placidly. "And what can love offer
me in exchange for the calm content of my life just now? for my perfect
health? for my freedom from care?"

"A reconciliation with your family," he suggested.

She sighed, and sat silent a little, lost in thought.

"I do not live with my family now," she answered at last. "They have all
their own interests, their own loves, apart from mine; would a letter or
two a year from them make up after all for the risk of misery I should be
running--for the terrible, helpless, hopeless, incurable misery of an
unhappily married woman, if I should become one?"

He rose and returned to his old position, leaning over the veranda,
looking down to the sea.

"You are cold-blooded, I think, Evadne," he reiterated.

She said nothing, but rested her head on the back of her chair and smiled.
She was not cold-blooded, and he knew it as well as she did. She was only
a nineteenth century woman of the higher order with senses so refined that
if her moral as well as her physical being were not satisfied in love,
both would revolt. They were silent some time after that, and then he
turned to her once more.

"Will you promise me that one thing, Evadne?" he asked. "Promise me that
during my lifetime you will never mix yourself up--never take part
publicly in any question of the day. It would be too deuced ridiculous for
me, you know, to have my name appearing in the papers in connection with
measures of reform, and all that sort of thing."

"I promise to spare you that kind of annoyance at all events," she
answered without hesitation, making the promise, not because she was
infirm of purpose, but because she was indefinite; she had no impulse at
the time to do anything, and no notion that she would ever feel impelled
to act in opposition to this wish of his.

"Thank you," he said, and there was another little pause, which he was
again the first to break.

"You would have loved me, then, if I had lived a different life," he said.

"Yes," she answered simply, "I should have loved you. No other man has
made me feel for a moment what I felt for you, while I believed that you
were all that a man should be who proposes to marry; and I don't think any
other man ever will, You were born for me. Why, oh, why! did you not live
for me?"

"I wish to God I had," he answered.

She rose impulsively, and stretched out her hands to him. Its was a
movement of pain and pity, sorrow and sympathy, and he understood it.

"You meant to marry always," she said, "You treasured in your heart your
ideal of a woman; why could you not have lived so that you would have been
_her_ ideal too, when at last you met?"

He took her two little outstretched hands and held them a moment in his,
looking down at them, "I wish to God I had," he repeated.

"Did it never occur to you that a woman has her ideal as well as a man?"
she said: "that she loves purity and truth, and loathes degradation and
vice more than a man does?"

"Theoretically, yes," he answered; "but you find practically that women
will marry anyone. If they were more particular, we should be more
particular too."

"Ah, that is our curse," said Evadne--"yours and mine. If women had been
'more particular' in the past, you would have been a good man, and I
should have been a happy wife to-day."

He raised her hands, which he was still holding, placing them palm to
palm, took them in one of his, and clasped them to his chest, bringing her
very close to him; and then he looked into her upturned face, considering
it, with that curious set expression on his own, which always came at a
crisis. Her lips were parted, her cheeks were pale, she still panted from
the passion of her last utterance, and her eyes, as he looked down into
them, were pained in expression and fixed. He let her hands drop, and once
more returned to his old position, leaning upon the balustrade with his
back to her, looking out over the sea. If it had been possible to have
obtained the mastery he had dreamed of over her, mere animal mastery, the
thought would have repelled him now. He might have dominated her senses,
but her soul would only have been the more confirmed in its loathing of
his life. He knew the strength of her convictions, knew that, so long as
they were a few yards apart, she could always have ruled both herself and
him; and life is lived a few yards apart. It was the best side of his
nature that was under Evadne's influence and he had now some saving grace
of manhood in him, which enabled him to appreciate the esteem with which
she had begun to repay his consideration for her, and to admire the
consistent self-respect which had brought her triumphantly out of all her
difficulties, and won her a distinguished position in the place. He felt
that he ought to be satisfied, and knew that he would have to be.

She remained standing as he had left her, and presently he turned to her
again. "Forgive me," he said, "for provoking a discussion which has pained
you needlessly. If repentance and remorse could wipe out the past, I
should be worthy to claim you this minute. But I know you are right. There
might have been hours of intoxication, but there would have been years of
misery also--for you--as my wife. Your decision was best for both of us.
It was our only chance of peace." He looked at her wistfully, and
approached a step.

She met him more than halfway. She put her hands on his shoulders, and
looked up at him. "But we are friends, George," she said with emotion. "I
seem to have nobody now but you belonging to me, and I should be lonely
indeed if--" She suddenly burst into tears.

"Yes, yes," he said huskily. "Of course we are friends; the best friends.
We shall always be friends. I have never let anyone say a word against
you, and I never will. I am proud to think that you are known by my name.
I only wish that I could make it worthy of you--and, perhaps, some day--in
the field--"

Poor fellow! The highest proof of moral worth he knew of was to be able to
take a prominent part in some great butchery of his fellow-men, without
exhibiting a symptom of fear.

Evadne had recovered herself, and now smiled up at him with wet eyelashes.

"Not there, I hope!" she answered. "Going to war and getting killed is not
a proof of affection and respect which we modern women care about. I would
rather keep you safe at home, and quarrel with you."

Colonel Colquhoun smiled. "Here is tea," he said, seeing a servant enter
the room behind them. "Shall we have it out here? We shall be cooler."

"Yes, by all means," she answered.

And then they began to talk of things indifferent, but with a new and
happy consciousness of an excellent understanding between them.


CHAPTER XV.


The following day, as Colonel Colquhoun went out in the afternoon, he met
Evadne coming in with Mrs. Malcomson and Mrs. Sillenger. Evadne was
leaning on Mrs. Malcomson's arm. She looked haggard and pale, and the
other two ladies were evidently also much distressed.

"Has anything happened?" Colquhoun asked with concern, "Are you ill,
Evadne?"

"I am sick at heart," she answered bitterly.

"We have had bad news," Mrs. Malcomson said significantly.

Colonel Colquhoun stood aside, and let them pass in. Then he went on to
the club, wondering very much what the news could be.

There he found Captain Belliot, Colonel Beston, and a few more of his
particular friends, all discussing something in tones of righteous
indignation. Mr. Price and Mr. St. John were there also. A mail had just
arrived bringing the details of Edith's illness from Morningquest.

Mr. St. John turned from the group, and as he did so Colonel Colquhoun
noticed that his gait was uncertain, and his face was white and distorted
as if with physical pain. His impulse was to offer him a restorative and
see him to his rooms, but Mr. Price anticipated the kind intention.

It was Mrs. Orton Beg who had written to Evadne, and she had brought Mrs.
Sillenger and Mrs. Malcomson in to hear the letter read.

"Edith is quite, quite mad," she said, unconsciously choosing the poor
girl's own expression; "and the most horrible part of it is, she knows it
herself. She wants to do the most dreadful things, and all the time she
feels as much horror of such deeds as we should. My aunt says her
sufferings are too terrible to describe. But she was growing gradually
weaker when the letter left."

"How _awful!_" Mrs. Sillenger ejaculated. "To think of her as we knew
her, so beautiful, and so sweet and good and true in every way; and with
her magnificent physique! and now not a soul that loves her, when they
hear that she is 'growing gradually weaker,' would wish it otherwise."

"My aunt concludes her letter by saying: 'I am telling you the state of
the case exactly,'" Evadne continued, "'because I did not agree with you
when you were here. I had been, so shielded from evil myself that I could
not believe in the danger to which all women in their weakness are
exposed. But I agree with you now, perfectly. We must alter all this, and
we can. Put me into communication with your friends--'"

"And you will join us yourself, Evadne?" Mrs. Malcomson exclaimed.

"Certainly I shall!" she answered emphatically. Then all at once something
flashed through her mind.

"Heaven!" she exclaimed. "I had forgotten! I cannot--I cannot join you. I
have given my word--to do nothing--so long as Colonel Colquhoun is alive."

Up to this time, Evadne in her home life had been serene and healthy
minded. But now suddenly there came a change. She began to ask: Why should
she trouble herself? Nobody who had a claim upon her wished her to do
anything but dress well and make herself agreeable, and that was what most
of the people about her were doing to the best of their ability. The
Church enjoined that she should do her duty. What was her duty? Clearly to
acquiesce as everybody else was doing, to refuse to know of anything that
might distress her, to be pleased and to give pleasure. That was all that
heaven itself had to offer her, and if she could make heaven upon earth
now, with a fan and a book, and a few congenial friends, she would.

This was the first consequence of her promise to Colonel Colquhoun. It had
cramped her into a narrow groove wherein to struggle would only have been
to injure herself ineffectually. There comes a time when every
intellectual being is forced to choose some definite pursuits. Evadne had
been formed for a life of active usefulness; but now she found herself
reduced to an existence of objectless contemplation, and she suffered
acutely until she had recourse to St. Paul and the pulpit, from which
barren fields she succeeded at last in collecting samples enough to make
up a dose of the time-honoured anodyne sacred to her sex. It is a
delicious opiate which gives immediate relief, but it soothes without
healing and is in the long run deleterious. And this was the influence
under which Evadne entered upon a new phase of life altogether. She gave
up reading; and by degrees there grew upon her a perfect horror of
disturbing emotions. She burnt any books she had with repulsive incidents
in them. She would not have them about even, lest they should remind her.
There were some pictures also in her rooms which depicted scenes of human
suffering--a battle piece, a storm at sea, a caravan lost in the desert,
and a prison scene; and those she had removed. She would have ended all
such horrors if she could, but as that was impossible, she would not even
think of them; and accordingly, she had those pictures replaced by
soothing subjects--moonlit spaces, sun-bright seas, clear brown rivulets,
lakes that mirrored the placid mountains, and flowers and birds and trees.
She would look at nothing that was other than restful; she would read
nothing that harrowed her feelings; she would listen to nothing that might
move her to indignation and reawaken the futile impulse to resist; and she
banished all thought or reflection that was not absolutely tranquillizing
in effect or otherwise enjoyable.

But all this was extremely enervating. She had owed her force of character
to her incessant intellectual activity, which had also kept her mind pure,
and her body in excellent condition. Had she not found an outlet for her
superfluous vitality as a girl in the cultivation of her mind, she must
have become morbid and hysterical, as is the case with both sexes when
they remain in the unnatural state of celibacy with mental energy
unapplied. We are like running water, bright and sparkling so long as the
course is clear; but divert us into unprogressive shallows, where we lie
motionless, and very soon we stagnate, and every particle of life within
us becomes offence. This was the fate which threatened Evadne. As her mind
grew sluggish, her bodily health decreased, and the climate began to tell
upon her. Malta has a pet fever of its own, of a dangerous kind, from
which she had hitherto escaped, but now, quite suddenly, she went down
with a bad attack, and hovered for weeks between life and death. Colonel
Colquhoun made arrangements to take her home as soon as she was
sufficiently strong to be moved; but just at that time a small war broke
out, and his regiment was one of the first to be ordered to the front. He
was able to see her off, however, with other ladies of the regiment, and
he telegraphed to her friends begging them to meet her at Southampton. The
hope of seeing them sustained Evadne during the voyage, but when she
arrived only Mrs. Orton Beg appeared. The latter was shocked by the change
in Evadne. Her hair had been cut short, her eyes were sunken, her cheeks
were hollow; she was skin and bone, and the colour of death.

Mrs. Orton Beg had gone on board the steamer, and Evadne had been brought
up on deck, supported by one of the ladies and her own maid.

All those seething, restless spirits which generate in the blood of a once
warlike race clog us up and turn to bile and dyspeptic distempers.

Our militant instincts, suppressed by a too-secure civilization,
break out in sordid maladies of the social organism.

As a vent-hole for the envy, hatred and uncharitableness of mankind,
politics cannot be overestimated.

In the absence of real battles on our soil these sham fights of the
polling-booth--sham because they determine nothing, because the
great silent forces are working behind all the noises--are the
national purge for "our present discontents"; no more truly efficacious
than that ancient therapeutics of the lancet, a General Election
yet comforts the patient, he takes a lease of fresh hope, the sun
leaps out, the clouds pack, the sky is blue, the grass is dew-pearled,
God's in his heaven, and all's right with the world.

Even the beaten party feels that it has won a moral victory, and confidently
looks forward to victory without morality at the next turn of the
wheel.

And so all these diseased humours of the body politic pass harmlessly
off.

No one but a confirmed cynic would wish to do away with all this harmless
dissipation, all the innocent fun of electioneering, the speeches, riotings,
mud-throwings, everybody happy as sandboys or mudlarks. What a great day
that was--Plancus being M. P. and I a boy in a provincial town--when
the Blues and the Reds meant broken heads, and the flowing tide of beer,
and spruce carriages with beribboned horses, and jocund waggonettes,
and bands and banners, and "hoorays," and shuttered shops, and an
outpour of citizens; a day festive, yet solemn, pregnant with
mysterious dooms and destinies, fatal, ineluctable, if victory fell
to the wrong-coloured ribbons.

I remember when my father went to poll his vote--a strange, weird article
that had to be carried carefully concealed on the person, lest the
roughs of the opposition should catch a glimpse of the tip of it and bash
in the holder's head--with what awed imagination we followed his course,
as of a hero gone to storm a redoubt or lead a forlorn hope!

with what anxiety we waited at home with the bandages! For the
civil war, which our constitution foments, was less of a sham then
than now, and the polling-booths vied with the playing-fields of Eton as
the nursery of England's heroes. Ah, the brave old times! An anaemic age
languishes for want of you, and finds its solace in "bluggy" tales.
For just as politics supplies the shadow, the simulacrum of fighting,
so art supplies the shadows of life to those who lack the substance.
We herd in towns, and take the country in dashes of water-colour
framed in gilt. We marry for money, and satiate our baulked sense of
romance with concoctions from Mudie's. We lie and haggle and cheat only the
better to apprehend the subtleties of spiritual discourse in fashionable
churches, and our generous appreciation of the consummate chivalry of the
hero of melodrama is the reward we owe ourselves for the pain it gave us
to kick our wives.

Practical joking is banished from reputable circles--even Bob Sawyer
is ranging himself; and so this primitive appetite seeks its
satisfaction in farcical comedies.

Poetic tragedies owe their attraction to the dominance in real life
of the drab and the unlovely, and the overstrain of the intellect
in modern life gives a peculiar flavour to the ineptitudes of Gaiety
burlesque.

All the primal instincts and passions are still in us, though
distorted, exaggerated, diminished, modified, applied to different
objects and purposes.

  The man with vagabond instincts becomes an
  explorer, Ishmael writes social dramas, the
  happier son of a defalcating cashier rises to
  be a minister of finance, the born liar turns novelist, the man
with murder in his soul hunts big game in foreign lands or settles
down at home as a critic.

And so, too, the born warrior becomes a political leader; and
politics, if it does not do any of the things it professes to do,
plays yet an invaluable part in modern life, bridging over, perchance,
the transition from the bellicose ages to those belauded days when
the war-drum shall throb no longer, "and the kindly earth shall
slumber, lapt in universal law."

That this is confusedly and sub-consciously understood, even by
politicians, is shown by their very vocabulary.

The Salvation Army itself boasts no more militant a phraseology than the
profession whose business it is to administer peacefully the affairs
of the realm. That which should be, and sometimes is, expressed by
nautical metaphors--the ship of state, guiding the helm, and the rest
of it--is much more frequently expressed by military metaphors. Even the
posts of duty are the "spoils" of office. The State which to Plato was
a deliberately harmonised music is to us a deliberate discord, and the acme
of politics, whose crowning glory should be a peaceful measure, is by
the vulgar not so inaccurately regarded as attained at a General Election,
the nomenclature of which positively bristles with bayonets. Seats
are won as towns were of old, and, as in the days of Joshua, victory
is achieved by walking round the town and blowing your own trumpets.

Great organs shamelessly lament that their side has no good grievance
to go to the country with,--as if the absence of grievances were not the
very object of government! A stirring war-cry--that is the indispensable.
If good government were really the object of a General Election, it would
all be over and done with in a day. Election day would everywhere be as
simultaneous as Christmas, and votes would be polled with the punctuality
with which puddings are eaten.
But this would be to contract a campaign into a battle--to make a short
story out of a great military serial, peppered with exciting incidents, to
be continued in our next. We want our vicissitudes, our sharpshooting,
our skirmishing, our days of triumph for the Whigs, and our days
of triumph for the Tories. What we like best of all is when the fighting
is so level that the Election progresses as breathlessly as a good
University boat race. Failing that, we like to see one side swamping
the other, like a great flood, the stream rising daily higher and higher,
with a crescendo roar, till the vanquished are swept away in a thunderous
mountain of waters. So for a full moon the waters rage, the noise of
battle roars, till our suppressed fighting instincts have been deluded
into repose and satisfaction, till the champing war-horses have been quieted
by being allowed to snort and cry "Ha! ha!"

to see the glitter of stage spears, and to hear the noise of the supers
and the shouting. This is the real end masked beneath all those interminable
phrases. And it is achieved at any and every cost. For does not everybody
complain that a General Election upsets everything? The publishers groan,
the theatrical managers tear their wigs. Englishmen cannot think of two
things at once; they are like heavy, solid craft, sound of timber but slow
of turning.
"One thing at a time" is a national proverb. They cannot even read
two books at once, and if two classics should be published on the same
day one would be a failure. There is the book of the week, and the
book of the season, and the book of the year. This applies even to our
appreciation of past periods, and because Shakespeare is the first
of the Elizabethan dramatists, the rest are nowhere. Wherefore one would
suppose that everybody would make haste to get the Election out
of the way; but, on the contrary, it is allowed to linger on, till
sometimes our overstrained suspense snaps, and the Election dribbles
out in unregarded issues.

No, the fight's the thing! War, if not dead, is banished from our shores;
the duello has been laughed to death; cock-fighting and bull-baiting
have ceased to charm: politics alone remains to gratify the pugnacity
and cruelty that civilisation has robbed of their due objects.

How we brighten up again at a bye-election, when duels which passed unregarded
in the big battle, when towns scarcely noted at the fag-end of the great
campaign, become the cynosure of every eye. Through Slocum or Eatonswill
the hub of the universe temporarily passes: to its population of four
thousand, mostly fools, are entrusted the destinies of the Empire; it
is theirs to make or mar. The duel is watched by a breathless nation.
The party leaders on each side cheer on their men; their careers
and claims and countenances fill up the papers, and they cross
swords in a shower of telegrams.

Advice to those about to enter Parliament: Elect for a bye-election. Why
be a nonentity, a mere M.P., when by a little patience you may hold
the centre of the stage, if only for a week? Better almost to be beaten at
a bye-election than to be successful at a General.

In case I should ever seek the suffrages of electors myself, I would
venture to remind opposition agents and private secretaries that these
random criticisms of the glorious constitution (hear, hear!) of that great
Empire on which the sun never sets (cheers), over which the Union Jack waves
(loud cheers)--a thousand years the battle and the breeze--hem!--I--I--ahem!--Lord
Salisbury (loud and prolonged cheers)--I mean that I trust they will not
forget that all this is set down without prejudice.

VII
THE REALISTIC NOVEL
The realistic novel, we know from Zola, that apostle of insufficient insight,
is based on "human documents," and "human documents" are made up of "facts."
_But in human life there are no facts._
This is not a paradox, but a "fact."

Life is in the eye of the observer.
The humour or the pity of it belongs entirely to the spectator, and depends
upon the gift of vision he brings. There are no facts, like bricks,
to build stories with. What, pray, in the realm of human life _is_
a fact? By no means a stubborn thing, as the proverb pretends. On the
contrary, a most pliant, shifting, chameleon-coloured thing, as
flexible as figures in the hands of the statistician. What is commonly
called a fact is merely a one-sided piece of information, a dead thing, not
the series of complex, mutually inter-working relations that constitutes a
fact as it exhibits itself to the literary vivisectionist.
I walked with a friend in a shabby district of central London, a region
that had once been genteel, but was now broken up into apartments.
Squalid babies, with wan, pathetic faces, pullulated on the doorsteps;
they showed from behind dingy windows at the breasts of haggard
women.
The fronts of the houses were black, the plaster had crumbled away, the
paint had peeled off. It was the ruins of a minor Carthage, and, like Marius,
I was lost in mournful reverie; my companion remarked, "These houses are
going up; they now pay 7 per cent." He was perfectly justified. There are
a hundred ways of looking at any fact. The historian, the scientist, the
economist, the poet, the philanthropist, the novelist, the anarchist, the
intelligent foreigner,--each would take away a different impression from
the street, and all these impressions would be facts, all equally
valid, all equally true, and all equally false. Life, I repeat, is in the
eye of the observer. What is farce to you is often tragedy to the actual
performer. The man who slips over a piece of orange peel, or chases his hat
along the muddy pavement, is rarely conscious of the humour of the situation.
On the other hand, you shall see persons involved in heartrending tragedies
to whom the thing shows as farce, like little children playing in
churchyards or riding tombstones astride. To the little imps of comedy,
who, according to Mr.
Meredith, sit up aloft, holding their sides at the spectacle of
mankind, to the
Spirit of the world, Beholding the absurdities of men, Their vaunts,
their feats, ...

human life must be a very different matter from what we poor players on
the scene imagine it; we are cutting a very different figure, not
only from that which faces us from the mirror of vanity, but from that
which is "as ithers see us." Not only, then, may our tragedy be
comedy; our comedy may be tragedy. The play of humour at least suggests
these alternatives. Life is Janus-faced, and the humourist invests his
characters with a double mask; they stand for comedy as well as for
tragedy; Don Quixote wears the buskin as well as the sock. Humour, whose
definition has always eluded analysis, may, perhaps (to attempt a definition
_currente calamo_), be that subtle flashing from one aspect to another,
that turning the coin so rapidly that one seems to see simultaneously
the face and the reverse, the pity and the humour of life, and knows not
whether to laugh or weep.

Humour is, then, the simultaneous revelation of the dual aspects of life;
the synthetical fusion of opposites; the gift of writing with a double
pen, of saying two things in one, of showing shine and shadow together.
This is why the humourist has always the gift of pathos; though the
gift of pathos does not equally imply the gift of humour. The tragic
writer must always produce one-sided work, so must the "funnyman" who
were only a "funny man" and not a humourist (though this is rarer). Each
can only show one side of life at a time; the humourist alone can show
both.

Great novels of romance and adventure, great works of imagination, great
poems, may be written by persons without humour; but only the humourist
can reproduce life. Milton is great; but the poet of life is Shakespeare.
Thus the whole case of "realism" falls to the ground.

There being no "facts," Zola's laborious series is futile; it may
be true to art, but it is not true to life. His vision is incomplete,
is inexhaustive; it lacks humour, and to the scientific novelist the lack
of humour is fatal.

He is the one novelist who cannot succeed without it. Leave out humour,
and you may get art and many other fine things, but you do not get the
lights and shadows or the "values" of life.

All novels are written from the novelist's point of view. They are his
vision of the world. They are not life, but individual refractions
of it.

The ironical pessimism of Thomas Hardy is as false as the sentimental
optimism of Walter Besant or the miso-androus meliorism of Sarah
Grand.

What Hall Caine happily calls "the scenic view of life" of Dickens
is no more true than the philosophic view of Mrs.

Humphry Ward. Each is existence viewing itself through a single medium. "Tess
of the D'Urbervilles" is as false as "Lorna Doone" or "Plain Tales
from the Hills."

Life, large, chaotic, inexpressible, not to be bound down by a formula,
peeps at itself through the brain of each artist, but eludes
photography.

This is the true inwardness of the Proteus myth. The humourist alone, by
presenting life in its own eternal contradictoriness, by not being
tied down to one point of view, like his less gifted brother, comes
nearest to expressing its elusive essence.

The great novelists are Fielding, Cervantes, Flaubert, Thackeray. But all
the novelists supplement one another, and relatively-true single
impressions of life go to make up a true picture of
Life, like a dome of many coloured glass.

It is because there are all novels and every aspect of existence in
Shakespeare that he sits supreme, the throned sovereign of the literature
of life.

The
rest of the choir, animated by his presence, exerted themselves to the
utmost, but were too delighted with their own performances to think much
of his before the solo began.

Then, however, they awoke. The first note he uttered was a long
_crescendo_ of such rich volume and so sweet, that the people held
their breath and looked up:

  This world recedes; it disappears!
  Heaven opens my eyes! my ears
  With sounds seraphic ring:
  Lend, lend your wings! I mount! I fly!
  O Grave! where is thy victory?
  O Death! where is thy sting?

It was as if a delicious spell had been cast upon the congregation, which
held them bound until the last note of the exquisite voice, even the last
reverberation of the organ accompaniment, had trembled into silence, and
then there was a movement, a flutter, a great sigh of relief heaved, so to
speak, as if the pleasure had been too great, and nerves and senses were
glad to be released from the tension of it.

The Tenor was slightly flushed when he resumed his seat, but otherwise his
face was as serenely impassive as ever.

"It is some great singer from abroad," the people whispered to each other.
"He is used to every kind of success, and does not even trouble himself to
see if we are pleased. He has sung doubtless to gratify some whim of his
own. Such artists are capricious folk." To which the answer was: "Long may
such whims continue!"

After the service, the dean hastened to thank the stranger. He shook his
hand with emotion, and congratulated him upon his marvellous gift. "May I
ask if you are a professional singer?" the old gentleman said.

"Not yet," was the answer; "but I wish to offer myself for the vacant post
of Tenor in the choir, if you are satisfied with my attainments."

The dean stared at him. "Oh--ah--" he stammered in his surprise; and then
he added something apologetically about references, and being obliged to
ask a few questions.

"If you have the time to spare, I think I can satisfy you now," the
stranger answered.

The dean, perceiving that he wished to speak to him alone, bowed
courteously, and requested the applicant to accompany him to the deanery.
The precentor, who had assisted at the interview up to this point, now
watched them depart, and as he did so he pursed up his lips significantly.
The stranger had sunk in his estimation from the possible rank of a
Russian prince to that of a simple singer, a considerable drop; but the
precentor was a musician, and he asserted that the voice was of the finest
quality, and trained to perfection. He wanted to know, however, what could
bring a man with a fortune like that in his throat to bury himself alive
in Morningquest, and he ventured to predict that it must be something
"fishy."

The stranger had a long private interview with the dean, but what
transpired thereat was never made public. It was known, however, that when
he left the deanery the dean himself accompanied him to the door, and
there shook hands with him cordially; and it was immediately afterward
announced that "Mr. Jones" was to be the new tenor.

"Mr. _Jones_, indeed!" said Morningquest sarcastically. "As much
_Jones_ as the bishop!" And the precentor was sure that the dean had
been taken in by a clever impostor, which would not have been the case, he
asserted, if the matter had been referred to him as it ought to have been.
But Morningquest declared that there was no imposition about that voice,
and as to antecedents, why, it was absurd to be too particular when
everything else was so entirely satisfactory.

There happened to be a tiny tenement in the Close vacant when the new lay
clerk began his duties as Tenor in the choir, and this he took. It was a
detached house, one of a row which faced the apse on the south side of the
cathedral. One step led down from the road into the little front garden,
and another from that into the house, which was thus two steps below the
road in front, but was level with the garden at the back. The passage ran
right through the house, the garden door being opposite the front door;
the kitchen was behind a little sitting room on the right as you entered,
and on the left were two other rooms when the Tenor took the house, the
one looking into the back garden, the other into the front; but these two
rooms he immediately turned into one by having the dividing wall removed,
and together they made a long, low, but comfortably proportioned
apartment, with a French window at either end. The Tenor spent all his
spare time when he first arrived in decorating this room, "_making_
work for himself," as the people said; and indeed that was just what he
seemed to be doing, for he worked, as a man does who feels that he ought
to be occupied, but he takes no pleasure and finds no relief in any
occupation. He frescoed the walls and ceiling of his room with admirable
taste and skill, making it look twice the size by cunning divisions of the
pattern on the walls, and by the well-devised proportions of dado and
cornice.

The dean often went to watch him at his work, and sat on a packing case
(the only article which the room contained at the time) by the hour
together talking to him, a circumstance which, taken with the fact that
other gentlemen in the neighbourhood also called upon him and lingered
long on the premises, greatly exercised the inquisitive minds of the
multitude, especially when it was perceived that the Tenor, instead of
being elated by their condescension, accepted it as a matter of course,
and continued always the same--sad, preoccupied, impassive, seldom
smiling, never surprised, taking no healthy interest in anything.

When the painting was finished, furniture began to arrive, and this was
another surprise for the Close, where houses were not adorned with the
designs of any one period, but were filled with a heterogeneous collection
of articles, generally aged and remarkably uncouth. Everything in the
Tenor's long low room, on the contrary, even down to the shape of the
brass coal scuttle and including the case of the grand piano, was in
harmony with the colour and design of the frescoes on the walls and
ceiling; the floor, which was polished, being adorned here and there with
rugs which suggested dim reflections of the tint and tone above. It was a
luxurious apartment, but not effeminate. The luxury was masculine luxury,
refined and significant; there was no meaningless feminine fripperies
about, nor was there any evidence of sensuous self-indulgence. It was the
abode of a cultivated man, but of one who was essentially manly withal.

The fame of this apartment having been noised abroad, the precentor came
one day to inspect it. There is no need to describe this precentor; one
knows exactly what a man must be who calls things "fishy." He was an
ordained clergyman, but not at all benevolent, neither was he a Christian,
for he did not love his neighbour as himself, and his visit on this
occasion was anything but friendly in intention. He was determined to know
something more about the Tenor, he said, and he meant to question him. His
theory was that the Tenor had been a public singer, but had disgraced
himself, and was unable to appear again in consequence; and on this
supposition he intended to proceed.

He found the Tenor with his hat in his hand on the point of leaving the
house; but the precentor was not delicate about detaining him. He walked
into the sitting room without waiting to be asked, pried impertinently
into everything, and then sat down. The Tenor meantime had remained
standing with his hat in his hand patiently waiting, and he still stood,
but the precentor did not take the hint.

"You are an opera singer, I think you said," he remarked as soon as he was
seated.

The Tenor looked at him inquiringly.

"Or was it concerts?" he suggested, a trifle disconcerted.

The Tenor looked gravely amused.

"It was not the music halls, of course?" the precentor persuasively
insinuated.

"Well, hardly," said the Tenor, fixing his steady eyes upon the man in a
way that made him wince. "I have some business to attend to in the town,"
he added. "Pray make yourself at home so long as it pleases you to
remain;" with which he brushed his hand back over his glossy hair, put on
his hat, and sauntered out, leaving his gentle guest to ruminate.

The interest which the Tenor had begun by exciting in the breasts of the
quiet inhabitants of Morningquest did not diminish all at once, as might
have been expected. He was only a lay clerk, to be sure, but then he was
so utterly unlike any other lay clerk. He was always so carefully dressed,
for one thing, and maintained so successfully that suggestion of good
breeding which had been their first impression of him; was altogether so
distinguished in appearance that it was a pleasure to hear strangers
exclaim: "Who _is_ that?" and to be able to surprise them with the
off-hand rejoinder: "Oh, that is only our tenor."

Then he was a stranger from nobody knew where; he went by the name of
"Jones," which was not believed to be his; he had a magnificent voice, and
he remained in Morningquest in an obscure position, making nothing of it.
True, he must have means; but what after all were the means which he
appeared to possess compared with the means which he might be enjoying?
And further--and this was considered the most extraordinary circumstance
of all--there was his attitude in the cathedral. He followed the services
devoutly; and such a thing as attention, let alone devotion, on the part
of a lay clerk had never been heard of in Morningquest. There was not even
a remote tradition in existence to prepare anybody's mind for such a
contingency.

So that altogether the man was a mystery; a mystery, however, toward which
the kindly people were well-disposed. And no wonder. For the Tenor's
manners were as attractive as his appearance, and his ways were not at all
mysterious when considered apart from the points already indicated, but,
on the contrary, simple in the extreme: the ways of one who is kindly
courteous and considerate on all occasions, paying proper respect to every
man, and also rigorously exacting from each the respect that was due to
himself. He would always see people who called upon him, and though it was
believed that he would rather not have been disturbed, he was too much of
a gentleman to show it. In fact, it was agreed that he was a gentleman
before everything, and not at all like a "Jones"; and therefore, acting on
some instinctive perception of the fitness of things, the citizens dropped
the offensive appellation altogether and called him "the Tenor" simply, as
they might have called him "the Duke."

There was at first a good deal of wonder as to where the money came from
with which he furnished his little house in the Close. How did he manage
to buy so many books and pictures? and how could he afford to give so much
away in charity? For it was known beyond a doubt that he had on more than
one occasion relieved the families of the other singers, and had relieved
them, too, in a most substantial way. It was evident that he had means;
but if he had means, why did he sing in the choir? This question was the
Alpha and Omega of ail that concerned him.

It was asked everywhere and by everybody; but no one could answer it save
the dean, who was not to be approached upon the subject. Finally, however,
people grew tired of forming conjectures which were neither denied nor
affirmed, and, becoming accustomed to the Tenor's presence amongst them,
they ceased as a regular thing to discuss his affairs.

But this was not the case until a story had been circulated about him
which was generally believed, although nobody knew from whence it
emanated. He was, according to the story, the illegitimate son of an
actress, and some great--in-the-sense-of-having-a-title--man, from whom
he inherited his aristocratic appearance and a small income. His mother,
it was said, had been an opera singer, which accounted for his voice; and
shame, they declared, on the discovery of his birth, had driven him into
his present retirement, and caused him to renounce the world. As this
story accounted in the most satisfactory manner for all that was strange
about him, it was regarded in every respect as authentic; and, after the
wickedness of titled men and the frailty of acting women had been freely
commented upon with much sage shaking of the head, as if only titled men
were wicked and acting women frail, and Morningquest itself was a saintly
city, innocent of any deed not strictly in accordance with its word, the
matter was allowed to drop, and the Tenor was left to "gang his ain gait,"
which he would have done in any case, probably, but which he continued to
do in a quiet, earnest, regular way that won him a friendly feeling from
most men, and more than his share of sympathy and attention from the good
women who had not self-love enough to be wounded by his indifference.
Unsophisticated little maidens, just budding into womanhood, would peep
after him shyly from the old-fashioned houses sometimes, and would feel in
their tender little hearts a gentle pity for one who was so handsome and
so unfortunate. Like the true hero of romance, he was believed by them to
be supremely unhappy, and all they asked was to be allowed to comfort him;
but he noticed none of them. And so the little maidens blushed at first
for having thought of him at all, and then forgot him for somebody else;
or, if the somebody else did not come quickly, they began to regard the
Tenor with a totally different feeling--almost as if he had wronged them
in some way. But the Tenor continued to "gang his ain gait," and was alike
indifferent to their pity or their spite.

His little house, like most of those in the Close, had an old walled
garden behind it, a large garden for the size of the house, and so
sheltered that many things grew there which would not grow elsewhere in
the open. The house itself was picturesque on that side, having a bright
south aspect favourable to the growth of creepers, with which it was
thickly covered, jasmine, clematis, honeysuckle, and roses succeeding each
other in their regular order; and the garden was always full of flowers.
It was here that the Tenor spent much of his time, hard at work. He had
evidently a passion for flowers, and was a most successful gardener, the
conservatory and orchid house, which he had had built soon after his
arrival, being always lovely even in the winter. The building of these two
houses was considered an extravagance, and had caused the Close to point
the finger at him for a while; but when someone declared that the
unfortunate Tenor had probably inherited much of his mother's
recklessness, and was not therefore responsible as other people were, the
suggestion was considered reasonable enough, and from that time forward
the Tenor's expensive tastes were held to be separate matter for
commiseration; the truth being that Morningquest could not bear to be on
bad terms with the Tenor, and would have found an excuse for him had he
outraged the best preserved prejudices it ever held.

It was only necessary to glance at the Tenor's books to perceive that he
was a student. Many valuable works in many languages were scattered about
his house, and it was a well-known fact that he spent much of his leisure
in poring over these. To what end his studies might be directed no one, of
course, could tell, but it was assumed that he had acquired a respectable
amount of knowledge from the fact that the dean, himself a learned man,
delighted not a little in his conversation. When this fact had been fully
ascertained by careful observation, smouldering curiosity blazed up
afresh, and surmise was once more busy with the Tenor's name. Did he write
for the magazines, they wondered? It seemed likely enough, for it was
notorious in Morningquest that people who did that kind of thing were not
like the rest of the world; and it soon came to pass that certain articles
relating to various things, such as drainage, deep sea fishery, the
coinage of Greece, competitive examinations in China, and essays on other
subjects likely to interest an artistic man, were confidently assumed to
be his. And the shy little girls in the old-fashioned houses, who never
looked at anything in the magazines but the pictures and the poetry, were
wont to credit him with certain passionate lays from which they got quite
new ideas of eyes and dies and sighs, and other striking rhymes to musical
metres which made their little hearts throb pleasurably. But nothing more
definite was known of the Tenor's labours than was known of anything else
concerning him; and, fortunately for himself, there was that in his
bearing which preserved him from being personally annoyed by impertinent
curiosity, so that he was most probably pretty nearly the only person in
the city who had no idea of the interest he himself excited.

Two years had glided by in great apparent tranquillity since the day the
Tenor entered the choir; two years, during which he had trodden the path
of life so uprightly, and so purely, that not even a suspicion of
wrong-doing was ever breathed against him by gentle or simple, good or
bad. It was a calm and passionless existence that he led, the life of an
ascetic, but of a cultivated ascetic, devoted to the highest intellectual
pursuits, and actuated by the belief that their value consisted, not in
their market price, nor in the amount of attention called fame, which they
might attract to himself, but in the pleasure they gave and in the good
they did. Many a weary man whose life had been wasted in the toil of
bringing himself before the world, when he had reached the summit of his
ambition, might well have envied the Tenor his placid countenance and
untroubled lot; some might even have perceived that there was more of
poetry than of commonplace in the quiet life which glided on so evenly,
soothed by the cathedral services, cheered by the chime, and guarded by
the shadow of its gray protecting walls.

The Tenor's cheeks had been haggard and worn when he first settled in
Morningquest, and dark circles round his eyes had betokened sleepless
nights, and the ceaseless gnawing ache of a great grief. But all that had
passed as the days wore on, giving place to a settled expression of peace--
peace tinged with a certain sadness, but dignified by resignation.
Gradually, too, although he remained slender, he ceased to be emaciated,
and his cheeks assumed a healthy hue that very well became them.


CHAPTER II.


It was thought at first that the dean's intimacy with the new Tenor arose
from a sense of duty sharpened by the feeling of self-reproach with which
he had regarded his fancied neglect of the old one; but, however that
might have been, it was continued from a genuine liking for the man
himself. No one in Morningquest knew the Tenor half so well as the dean
did, no one could have had a truer regard for him, or watched the passing
of his trouble with more affectionate interest, or noted the change for
the better which had been wrought by the regular occupation of those
peaceful days with greater satisfaction, The dean knew the Tenor's story,
so that their relations might be called confidential; but for two years no
allusion had been made by either of them to the past, neither had any
plans been formed for the future.

At the end of that time, however, the dean noticed signs of awakening
energy in his friend. The Tenor performed his duties less mechanically.
His apathy was broken by fits of restlessness. He had found the mornings
long lately; he had thought the afternoons objectless; and when evening
came and the lamps were lighted, he wearied of his books and music, and
chafed a little for something, not change exactly; but he was conscious of
a desire--and this he only felt at times--a desire for some trifling human
interest which should make the life he was leading fuller. He had
awakened, in fact, from his long lethargy, and found himself alone.

The Dean of Morningquest was a remarkable man. He had the fine physique,
the high-breeding, and the scholarly reputation common to that order of
divines who keep up the dignity of the Church without doing much for
Christianity. In person he was tall, but stooped from the shoulders. He
had white hair, a fine intellectual face; fresh, and with that young look
in it which has been called saint-like, and is only seen on the faces of
those in whom passion has not died a natural death as the vital powers
decay, but has been brought into subjection, and made to do good work
instead of evil. No man consorted more habitually with his equals, or
seldomer entertained the notion that there were such people in the world
as his inferiors. He practised his religion to the last letter of church
law, and worshipped Christ the Son of God; but there is no doubt that he
would have turned his exclusive back on Christ the carpenter's son, and
had him prosecuted for an impostor had he presented himself with no better
pedigree. He could tell the story of the Saviour's sufferings with
infinite pathos because he knew who the Saviour was; but he could not have
told the same story with the same power had the hero of it been merely one
common man sacrificing his life for others. What affected the dean was the
enormous condescension. It was the greatness of the Man, not the greatness
of the deed, that appealed to him. A poor tradesman might sacrifice his
life nobly also; but, then, what is the life of a tradesman comparatively
speaking?

People called the dean proud and worldly wise, but this was not true of
him. He may have believed that all the people of Palestine belonged to
county families, and were therefore called the chosen people, but he never
said so. A certain gentle humility of demeanour always distinguished him,
no matter to whom he spoke; and he was without doubt a thoroughly good
nineteenth century churchman, living at his own level, of course, and true
to his caste, toward the weaknesses of which he exercised much charity and
forbearance, while he expressed his condemnation of its sins by rigorously
excluding from his family circle any member of it who had been openly
convicted of disgraceful conduct, just as he excluded professional men and
other common citizens when they held no official position which he was
obliged to recognize, and were not connected with the landed gentry. But
these were the characteristics of his position, for as a dean he was
required to be the slave of precedent; as a man, however, he was known to
be just and generous, and an excellent good friend to all who had any
claim upon him, from the bishop who governed him down to the humblest
chorister in the cathedral which he governed.

It was in the early spring when the dean first noticed what he took to be
a change for the better in the Tenor's attitude toward life at large. The
dean was susceptible himself to kindly changes in the season; so much so,
indeed, that, contrary to all precedent, he allowed himself to be tempted
out after dark one night into the Close by the balmy mildness of the
weather: His mind had been running all day upon the Tenor, and, noticing
as he passed his little house that the blind was up, and the sitting room
window wide open, showing the lamplit interior, and the object of his
thoughts pacing restlessly to and fro, he determined to go in and have a
chat. The Tenor received him cordially, but his manner was somewhat
absent, and for a wonder the conversation flagged.

"Are you well?" the dean asked at last. "You look somewhat fatigued, I
think, and pale."

"Yes, I am well, thank you," the Tenor answered, brushing his hand back
over his forehead and hair, a gesture which was habitual. "But I fancy,"
he added smiling, "that I am beginning to be a little"--he did not know
what.

"Ah!" said the dean, looking at him with the grave, critical air of an
anxious physician, and ruminating before he pronounced his diagnosis, "You
have shown most extraordinary perseverance in the course of life you
marked out for yourself," he finally observed; "and I trust your
resolution is well recompensed by having obtained for you that peace of
mind which you sought. But there is one thing I should like to be
permitted to point out to you. I do not venture to advise, because, in the
first place, it is always a difficult matter to decide on What would be
best for another man's welfare; and, in the second"--the dean always spoke
with great deliberation--"a man who has proved himself so capable of
acting with prudence and determination, so competent to judge, and so firm
in carrying out his convictions as you have been, might well consider
advice from anyone presumptuous. And, therefore, I am merely going to
observe that, lately, it has seemed to me to be a pity that your life
should continue much longer to be a life of inaction. I hope, and indeed I
think, that the years you have spent so well in this quiet way have been
even more beneficial than you yourself imagine; that they have not only
reconciled you to life, but have given you back the confidence and energy
which should belong to your character and abilities, and the ambition to
succeed in the world which should belong to your age. For some time past
it has seemed to me that you are more restless than you used to be; and I
have fancied, indeed I may say I have hoped, that you are at last
beginning to long for change."

The Tenor sat silent and thoughtful for a while.

"No," he began at last, "I do not even yet long for change, as you would
understand the longing. [Illustration: THE CAPITOL AT WASHINGTON AND
CARPENTERS' HALL, WHERE THE FIRST COLONIAL CONGRESS MET.]
This private note, discussing casually and curtly the great river of the
West, and the minister who endeavored to make it a _flumen clausum_ to the
colonists, nearly equidistant in date between the Boston Tea-party and
the meeting of the Assembly which called the first Continental Congress,
has some public interest. The West always possessed a peculiar attraction
for Washington. He explored it personally and through others, and lost no
occasion of procuring detailed information in regard to its
capabilities.

He acquired large bodies of land along the Ohio at different points, from
its affluents at the foot of the Alleghany to the Great Kanawha and below.
Now we see him gazing farther, over the yet unreddened battle-grounds of
Boone and Lewis, to the magnificent province France and Spain were
carefully holding in joint trusteeship for the infant state he was to
nurse. The representative in the provincial legislature of a frontier
county stretching from the Potomac to the Ohio, we may fancy him inspired,
as he looked around from his post on the vertebral range of the continent,
with "something of prophetic strain." If so, he was not long to have
leisure for indulging it.

Within eighteen months his life's work was to summon him eastward to the
sea-shore. The Dark and Bloody Ground must wait. For its tillage other
guess implements than the plough were preparing--the same that beckoned him
to Cambridge and the new century.

The slender driblet of population which at this juncture flowed
toward the Lower Mississippi was due to the anxiety of Spain to get
a home-supply of wheat, hemp and such-like indispensables of temperate
extraction for her broad tropical empire.

A newspaper of August 20, 1773 gives news from New York of the arrival at
that port of "the sloop Mississippi, Capt. Goodrich, with the Connecticut
Military Adventurers from the Mississippi, but last from Pensacola, the
16th inst." They had "laid out twenty-three townships at the Natchez,"
where lands were in process of rapid occupation, the arrivals
numbering "above four hundred families within six weeks, down the
Ohio from Virginia and the Carolinas."

The Connecticut men doubtless came back prepared, a little later,
to vindicate their martial cognomen; and to aid them in that they
were met by Transatlantic recruits in unusual force.

The same journal mentions the arrival at Philadelphia of 1050
passengers in two ships from Londonderry; this valuable infusion
of Scotch-Irish brawn, moral, mental and muscular, being farther
supplemented by three hundred passengers and servants in the ship
Walworth from the same port for South Carolina.

The cash value to the country of immigrants was ascertainable by a
much less circuitous computation then than now; many of them being indentured
for a term of years at an annual rate that left a very fair sum for
interest and sinking fund on the one thousand dollars it is the
practice of our political economist of to-day to clap on each head
that files into Castle Garden.

The German came with the Celt in almost equal force--enough to more
than balance their countrymen under Donop, Riedesel and Knyphausen.
The Tenor had gone again and again to hear her in
this chant, the music of which suited her as well as it did the theme. The
words of adoration, "Sancta Maria, Sancta Dei Genetrix, Sancta Virgo
virginum," were uttered evenly on notes that admitted of the tenderest
expression, while the supplication, the "Ora pro nobis," rose to the full
compass of the singer's voice, and was delivered in tones of passionate
entreaty. At the end, in the "Agnus Dei," the music changed, dropping into
the minor with impressive effect, the effect of earnestness wearied by
effort but still unshaken; and it was this final appeal in all its
pathetic beauty that now recurred to the Tenor. He had not thought of the
chant for years, nor had there been anything apparently to recall it now;
but all that day it possessed him, and at intervals he caught himself
involuntarily singing it aloud:

  "Agnus Dei, qui tollis peccata mundi, parce nobis Domine,
  Agnus Dei, qui tollis peccata mimdi, exaudi nos Domine,
  Agnus Dei, qui tollis peccata mundi, miserere nobis."

He sang it while he was dressing; he whistled it with his hands in his
pockets while he walked up and down the room waiting for his breakfast;
and at breakfast, with the newspaper before him, he hummed it to himself
steadily. He began it again as he crossed the road to enter the cathedral
for the early morning service; he continued it while he was putting on his
surplice; he marched to it in the procession, and he rapped it out on his
music book when he had taken his seat in the choir. He opened the book to
study his solo for the afternoon service, but before he was halfway
through his mind was busily rendering, not the music before him, but

  "Agnus Dei, qui tollis peccata mundi, parce nobis Domine."

The haunting strain had become an intolerable nuisance by this time, and
he made a vigorous effort to get rid of it by giving his mind to what was
going on around him, and interesting himself in the people as they entered
and took their places in stall and choir, and canon's pew, chancel and
transept. Being Saturday, there was a good attendance even at this early
service. Strangers from a distance came in to see the cathedral, and
people in the place came in to see the strangers; so that there was plenty
to observe, especially for one who (unlike the Tenor) was a little behind
the scenes or had peeped beneath the surface and beheld the various
incidents of the life-dramas which were constantly being enacted in the
sacred edifice itself from service to service in the midst and with the
help of psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, prayers and sermons, under
the dean's very nose, and often in the presence of the bishop. The world
at worship is a worldly sight, and there was a certain appropriateness in
the Tenor's _miserere_; but he failed to apply it although it kept
him company to the end, and was still faithful when he sallied forth from
the gloom of the cathedral and went on his way with the rest in the
sunshine and freshness of a glad new day.

As the time for the afternoon service approached, the people began again
to flock to the cathedral, but in crowds now, for it had been rumoured
that the Tenor was to sing.

David's face clouded. "Nahoum, thou dost mean Nahoum? But thou dost not
understand, and there is no proof."
"As a camel knows the coming storm while yet the sky is clear, by that which
the eye does not see, so do I feel Nahoum. The evils thou hast suffered,
Saadat, are from his hand, if from any hand in Egypt--"
Suddenly he leaned over and touched David's arm. "Saadat, it is of no
avail. There is none in Egypt that desires good; thy task is too
great.
All men will deceive thee; if not now, yet in time. If Kaid favours thee
once more, and if it is made possible for thee to go to the Soudan, yet
I pray thee to stay here. Better be smitten here, where thou canst
get help from thine own country, if need be, than yonder, where they but
wait to spoil thy work and kill thee. Thou art young; wilt thou throw
thy life away? Art thou not needed here as there?

For me it is nothing, whether it be now or in a few benumbing years;
but for thee--is there no one whom thou lovest so well that thou wouldst
not shelter thy life to spare that life sorrow? Is there none that
thou lovest so, and that will love thee to mortal sorrow, if thou
goest without care to thy end too soon?"

As a warm wind suddenly sweeps across the cool air of a summer evening for
an instant, suffocating and unnerving, so Ebn Ezra's last words swept
across David's spirit. His breath came quicker, his eyes half closed.
"Is there none that thou lovest so, and that will love thee to mortal
sorrow, if--"
As a hand secretly and swiftly slips the lever that opens the sluice- gates
of a dike, while the watchman turns away for a moment to look at the
fields which the waters enrich and the homes of poor folk whom the gates
defend, so, in a moment, when off his guard, worn with watching and
fending, as it were, Ebn Ezra had sprung the lever, and a flood of feeling
swept over David, drowned him in its impulse and pent-up force.

"Is there none that thou lovest so--" Of what use had been all his
struggle and his pain since that last day in Hamley--his dark fighting
days in the desert with Lacey and Mahommed, and his handful of faithful
followers, hemmed in by dangers, the sands swarming with Arabs who
feathered now to his safety, now to his doom, and his heart had
hungered for what he had denied it with a will that would not be conquered?

Wasted by toil and fever and the tension of danger and the care of others
dependent on him, he had also fought a foe which was ever at his elbow,
ever whispered its comfort and seduction in his ear, the insidious and
peace-giving, exalting opiate that had tided him over some black
places, and then had sought for mastery of him when he was back
again in the world of normal business and duty, where it appealed
not as a medicine, but as a perilous luxury.

And fighting this foe, which had a voice so soothing, and words like the
sound of murmuring waters, and a cool and comforting hand that sought
to lead him into gardens of stillness and passive being, where he could no
more hear the clangour and vexing noises of a world that angered and
agonised, there had also been the lure of another passion of the heart,
which was too perilously dear to contemplate. Eyes that were beautiful,
and their beauty was not for him; a spirit that was bright and
glowing, but the brightness and the glow might not renew his days.

  It was hard to fight alone. Alone he
  was, for only to one may the doors within
  doors be opened-only to one so dear
  that all else is everlastingly distant may the true tale of the
life beneath life be told.

And it was not for him--nothing of this; not even the thought of
it; for to think of it was to desire it, and to desire it was to
reach out towards it; and to reach out towards it was the end of all.

There had been moments of abandonment to the alluring dream, such as when
he wrote the verses which Lacey had sent to Hylda from the desert; but
they were few. Oft-repeated, they would have filled him with an agitated
melancholy impossible to be borne in the life which must be his.

So it had been. The deeper into life and its labours and experiences he had
gone, the greater had been his temptations, born of two passions,
one of the body and its craving, the other of the heart and its
desires: and he had fought on--towards the morning.

"Is there none that thou lovest so, and that will love thee to mortal
sorrow, if thou goest without care to thy end too soon?" The desert, the
dark monastery, the acacia tree, the ancient palm, the ruinous garden,
disappeared. He only saw a face which smiled at him, as it had done 'by
the brazier in the garden at Cairo, that night when she and Nahoum
and himself and Mizraim had met in the room of his house by the Ezbekieh
gardens, and she had gone out to her old life in England, and he had
taken up the burden of the East--that long six years ago.

His head dropped in his hands, and all that was beneath the Quaker life
he had led so many years, packed under the crust of form and habit,
and regulated thought, and controlled emotion, broke forth now, and had
its way with him.

He turned away staggering and self-reproachful from the first question,
only to face the other--"And that will love thee to mortal sorrow,
if thou goest without care to thy end too soon."

It was a thought he had never let himself dwell on for an instant
in all the days since they had last met.

He had driven it back to its covert, even before he could recognise
its face.

It was disloyal to her, an offence against all that she was, an affront
to his manhood to let the thought have place in his mind even for one
swift moment. She was Lord Eglington's wife--there could be no sharing
of soul and mind and body and the exquisite devotion of a life too
dear for thought.

Nothing that she was to Eglington could be divided with another, not for an
hour, not by one act of impulse; or else she must be less, she
that might have been, if there had been no Eglington--
An exclamation broke from him, and, as one crying out in one's sleep
wakes himself, so the sharp cry of his misery woke him from the
trance of memory that had been upon him, and he slowly became
conscious of Ebn Ezra standing before him.

Their eyes met, and Ebn Ezra spoke:

"The will of Allah be thy will, Saadat. If it be to go to the Soudan, I am
thine; if it be to stay, I am thy servant and thy brother.

But whether it be life or death, thou must sleep, for the young are like
water without sleep. Thou canst not live in strength nor die with fortitude
without it.

For the old, malaish, old age is between a sleeping and a waking! Come,
Saadat! Forget not, thou must ride again to Cairo at dawn."
David got slowly to his feet and turned towards the monastery. The figure
of a monk stood in the doorway with a torch to light him to his room.

He turned to Ebn Ezra again.

"Does thee think that I have aught of his courage--my Uncle Benn? Thou knowest
me--shall I face it out as did he?"

"Saadat," the old man answered, pointing, "yonder acacia, that was he, quick
to grow and short to live; but thou art as this date-palm, which giveth
food to the hungry, and liveth through generations.

Peace be upon thee," he added at the doorway, as the torch flickered towards
the room where David was to lie.

"And upon thee, peace!" answered David gently, and followed the
smoky light to an inner chamber.

The room in which David found himself was lofty and large, but was
furnished with only a rough wooden bed, a rug, and a brazier. Left
alone, he sat down on the edge of the bed, and, for a few moments, his mind
strayed almost vaguely from one object to another.

From two windows far up in the wall the moonlight streamed in, making
bars of light aslant the darkness.

Not a sound broke the stillness. Yet, to his sensitive nerves, the air
seemed tingling with sensation, stirring with unseen activities. Here the
spirit of the desert seemed more insistent in its piercing vitality,
because it was shut in by four stone walls.

Mechanically he took off his coat, and was about to fold and lay it on
the rug beside the bed, when something hard in one of the pockets
knocked against his knee. Searching, he found and drew forth a small
bottle which, for many a month past, had lain in the drawer of a table
where he had placed it on his return from the Soudan. It was an evil
spirit which sent this tiny phial to his hand at a moment when he had paid
out of the full treasury of his strength and will its accumulated deposit,
leaving him with a balance on which no heavy draft could be made. His
pulse quickened, then his body stiffened with the effort at self-control.

Who placed this evil elixir in his pocket? What any enemy of his work had
done was nothing to what might be achieved by the secret foe, who had placed
this anodyne within his reach at this the most critical moment of his
life. He remembered the last time he had used it--in the desert:
two days of forgetfulness to the world, when it all moved by him, the swarming
Arabs, the train of camels, the loads of ivory, the slimy crocodile
on the sandbanks, the vultures hovering above unburied carcasses, the
kourbash descending on shining black shoulders, corrugating bare brown
bodies into cloven skin and lacerated flesh, a fight between champions of
two tribes who clasped and smote and struggled and rained blows, and,
both mortally wounded, still writhed in last conflict upon the ground--and
Mahommed Hassan ever at the tent door or by his side, towering, watchful,
sullen to all faces without, smiling to his own, with dog-like look
waiting for any motion of his hand or any word.... Ah, Mahommed Hassan,
it was he! Mahommed had put this phial in his pocket. His bitter secret
was not hidden from Mahommed. And this was an act of supreme devotion--to
put at his hand the lulling, inspiring draught. Did this fellah
servant know what it meant--the sin of it, the temptation, the terrible
joy, the blessed quiet; and then, the agonising remorse, the withering
self-hatred and torturing penitence? No, Mahommed only knew that when the
Saadat was gone beyond his strength, when the sleepless nights and feverish
days came in the past, in their great troubles, when men were dying and
only the Saadat could save, that this cordial lifted him out of
misery and storm into calm. Yet Mahommed must have divined that it was
a thing against which his soul revolted, or he would have given it to him
openly. In the heart and mind of the giant murderer, however, must have
been the thought that now when trouble was upon his master again,
trouble which might end all, this supreme destroyer of pain and
dark memory and present misery, would give him the comfort he
needed--and that he would take it.

If he had not seen it, this sudden craving would not have seized him for
this eager beguiling, this soothing benevolence. Yet here it was in his
hand; and even as it lay in his cold fingers--how cold they were, and his
head how burning!--the desire for it surged up in him. And, as though the
thing itself had the magical power to summon up his troubles, that it
might offer the apathy and stimulus in one--even as it lured him,
his dangers, his anxieties, the black uncertainties massed,
multiplied and aggressive, rose before him, buffeted him, caught
at his throat, dragged down his shoulders, clutched at his heart.

Now, with a cry of agony, he threw the phial on the ground, and,
sinking on the bed, buried his face in his hands and moaned, and
fought for freedom from the cords tightening round him.

It was for him to realise now how deep are the depths to which the human
soul can sink, even while labouring to climb. Once more the sense of
awful futility was on him: of wasted toil and blenched force, veins of
energy drained of their blood, hope smitten in the way, and every
dear dream shattered. Was it, then, all ended? Was his work indeed fallen,
and all his love undone? Was his own redemption made impossible? He had
offered up his life to this land to atone for a life taken when
she--when she first looked up with eyes of gratitude, eyes that
haunted him.

Was it, then, unacceptable? Was it so that he must turn his back upon
this long, heart-breaking but beloved work, this panacea for his soul,
without which he could not pay the price of blood?

Go back to England--to Hamley where all had changed, where the old man he
loved no longer ruled in the Red Mansion, where all that had been could
be no more? Go to some other land, and there begin again another such a
work? Were there not vast fields of human effort, effort such as his,
where he could ease the sorrow of living by the joy of a divine
altruism?

Go back to Hamley? Ah, no, a million times, no! That life was dead, it was
a cycle of years behind him. There could be no return.

He was in a maelstrom of agony, his veins were afire, his lips were
parched.

He sprang from his bed, knelt down, and felt for the little phial he had
flung aside. After a moment his hand caught it, clutched it. But, even
at the crest of the wave of temptation, words that he had heard one night
in Hamley, that last night of all, flashed into his mind--the words
of old Luke Claridge's prayer, "And if a viper fasten on his hand,
O Lord--" 
Suddenly he paused.

That scene in the old Meetinghouse swam before his eyes, got into his
brain. He remembered the words of his own prayer, and how he had
then retreated upon the Power that gave him power, for a draught of the one
true tincture which braced the heart to throw itself upon the
spears of trial.

Now the trial had come, and that which was in him as deep as being, the habit
of youth, the mother-fibre and predisposition, responded to the draught
he had drunk then. As a body freed from the quivering, unrelenting
grasp of an electric battery subsides into a cool quiet, so, through
his veins seemed to pass an ether which stilled the tumult, the
dark desire to drink the potion in his hand, and escape into that
irresponsible, artificial world, where he had before loosened his
hold on activity.

The phial slipped from his fingers to the floor. He sank upon the side
of the bed, and, placing his hands on his knees, he whispered
a few broken words that none on earth was meant to hear. Then he
passed into a strange and moveless quiet of mind and body.

Many a time in days gone by--far-off days--had he sat as he
was doing now, feeling his mind pass into a soft, comforting quiet,
absorbed in a sensation of existence, as it were between waking and sleeping,
where doors opened to new experience and understanding, where the
mind seemed to loose itself from the bonds of human necessity and
find a freer air.

Now, as he sat as still as the stone in the walls around him, he was conscious
of a vision forming itself before his eyes. At first it was indefinite,
vague, without clear form, but at last it became a room dimly outlined,
delicately veiled, as it were. Then it seemed, not that the mist cleared,
but that his eyes became stronger, and saw through the delicate haze;
and now the room became wholly, concretely visible.

It was the room in which he had said good-bye to Hylda. As he gazed like
one entranced, he saw a figure rise from a couch, pale, agitated,
and beautiful, and come forward, as it were, towards him.

But suddenly the mist closed in again upon the scene, a depth of
darkness passed his eyes, and he heard a voice say: "Speak--speak to
me!"
He heard her voice as distinctly as though she were beside him--as,
indeed, she had stood before him but an instant ago.

Getting slowly to his feet, into the night he sent an answer to the
call.

Would she hear? She had said long ago that she would speak to him so.
Perhaps she had tried before. But now at last he had heard and
answered.
Had she heard? Time might tell--if ever they met again. But how good, and
quiet, and serene was the night!

He composed himself to sleep, but, as he lay waiting for that
coverlet of forgetfulness to be drawn over him, he heard the sound of bells
soft and clear. Just such bells he had heard upon the common at Hamley.
Was it, then, the outcome of his vision--a sweet hallucination? He leaned
upon his elbow and listened.

CHAPTER XXXII
FORTY STRIPES SAVE ONE
The bells that rang were not the bells of Hamley; they were part of no
vision or hallucination, and they drew David out of his chamber into the
night. A little group of three stood sharply silhouetted against the
moonlight, and towering above them was the spare, commanding form of
Ebn Ezra Bey. Three camels crouched near, and beside them stood a Nubian
lad singing to himself the song of the camel-driver:

"Fleet is thy foot: thou shalt rest by the Etl tree; Water shalt thou
drink from the blue-deep well; Allah send His gard'ner with the green
bersim, For thy comfort, fleet one, by the Etl tree.
As the stars fly, have thy footsteps flown Deep is the well, drink, and be
still once more; Till the pursuing winds panting have found thee And,
defeated, sink still beside thee-- By the well and the Etl tree."
For a moment David stood in the doorway listening to the low song
of the camel-driver.

Then he came forward. As he did so, one of the two who stood with Ebn Ezra
moved towards the monastery door slowly. It was a monk with a face which,
even in this dim light, showed a deathly weariness. The eyes looked straight
before him, as though they saw nothing of the world, only a goal
to make, an object to be accomplished.
The look of the face went to David's heart--the kinship of pain was
theirs.

"Peace be to thee," David said gently, as the other passed him.

There was an instant's pause, and then the monk faced him with fingers
uplifted. "The grace of God be upon thee, David," he said, and his eyes,
drawn back from the world where they had been exploring, met the other's
keenly. Then he wheeled and entered the monastery.

"The grace of God be upon thee, David!" How strange it sounded,
this Christian blessing in response to his own Oriental greeting, out in
this Eastern waste. His own name, too. It was as though he had been
transported to the ancient world where "Brethren" were so few that they
called each other by their "Christian" names--even as they did in
Hamley to-day.

In Hamley to-day! He closed his eyes, a tremor running through his body;
and then, with an effort which stilled him to peace again, he moved forward,
and was greeted by Ebn Ezra, from whom the third member of the little group
had now drawn apart nearer to the acacia-tree, and was seated on a rock
that jutted from the sand. "What is it?" David asked.

"Wouldst thou not sleep, Saadat? Sleep is more to thee now than
aught thou mayst hear from any man.

To all thou art kind save thyself."

"I have rested," David answered, with a measured calmness, revealing
to his friend the change which had come since they parted an hour
before.

the Tenor asked as
he acquiesced, smiling in his grave way, for the Boy pleased him.

"Oh, well"--considering--"I got up this morning."

"That was a serious business!"

"It was"--with emphasis--"for I had to settle a serious question before I
arose. I had to make up my mind about free will and predestination. If I
could believe in predestination I thought I might have breakfast in bed
without self-reproach; but if it were a matter of free will, I felt I
should be obliged to get up."

"And how did you settle it?" The tenor asked.

"I didn't settle it," the Boy replied, "for just as I was coming to a
conclusion the breakfast bell rang, and the force of habit compelled me to
jump out of bed in a hurry. I don't call _that_ free will! And I
think, on the whole, predestination had the best of it, perhaps, for my
breakfast was sent up to me after all, without any action on my part, and
I partook of it in the silence and solitude of my own chamber, with an
easy conscience, and the luxuries of an open window and a book. I suppose
you can do that every day if you like? You have no one to interfere with
you."

"I have no one to interfere with me," the Tenor repeated, thoughtfully,
"Perhaps it would be better for me if I had."

"By better you mean happier," the Boy responded, clasping both hands round
the Tenor's arm.

The latter looked down at him, wondering a little, but not displeased.

They were walking in the shadow of the houses just then, and could not see
each other's faces, but the Tenor's heart warmed more and more to this
curious Boy, and he pressed the hand that rested on his arm a little
closer. It was a long time since the grave, large-hearted, earnest man had
known anyone so young and spontaneous, or felt a touch of human sympathy,
and in both he found refreshment--a something of that something which he
knew he needed but could not name.

They took a turn up and down in silence, and then the Boy began again,
boyishly: "I say, do you suffer from nerves? You made rather a bungle of
it the other day, didn't you?"

"You mean when I broke down in that anthem? Were you there? Where did you
sit?"

"With the distinguished strangers, of course."

"I did not see you."

"Did you look behind you?"

"No. But are you a stranger here?"

"Well, not exactly," said the Boy, with a great affectation of candour.

They had passed out into the open now, and the Tenor could see the Boy's
face. He had glanced at him as we do at the person we speak to, but
something he saw arrested his glance, and caused him to look again keenly
and closely--the something that had perplexed him before.

The Boy returned his gaze smiling and unabashed. "She put you out, didn't
she?" he asked with a grin. "Verily, she hath eyes--at least, I've been
told so; but I am no judge of such things myself."

The puzzled look passed from the Tenor's face. "I know what it is," he
said. "You are exactly like her."

The Boy laughed. "I meant to keep it a secret. I was going to make a
mystery of myself," he said; "but faculties like yours are not to be
baffled, and since you have observed so much, I might as well confess that
there are two of us, twins. They call us the Heavenly Twins."

"What, signs of the Zodiac?" said the Tenor.

"No, signs of the times," said the Boy.

There was a little pause and then the Tenor observed: "I should hardly
have thought you were twins, except for the likeness. Your sister looks
older than you do."

"Well, you see, she's so much more depraved," said the Boy. "And her
lovely name is Angelica--excuse me. I must laugh." He slipped his hand
from the Tenor's arm, leant his back against a railing, and exploded.
"Excuse me," he repeated, when he could contain himself. "I have suffered
from this affliction all my life. I can't help laughing."

"So it seems," said the Tenor, "May I ask what provoked this last attack
of your malady?"

Before he could answer, they were accosted by a respectable looking man, a
small farmer from a distance probably, who was making the most of a rare
opportunity by trying to see as much as he could of the cathedral in the
dark.

"I beg your pardon, sir," he said--the Boy was all gravity in a
moment--"but could you tell me what flying buttresses are."

"A sign of rain," said the Boy, whereupon the Tenor seized him by the
scruff of the neck and shook him incontinently. For a moment after he was
released, the Boy seemed to be overcome by astonishment; but this was
rapidly succeeded by an attack of the malady he had declared to be
congenital, apparently brought on by the shock of the chastisement, and
the Tenor, who had walked on a little way with the countryman answering
his questions, left him laughing all over. He waited, leaning against the
railing, until the Tenor returned.

"You little wretch--" the latter began.

"That's right, don't make a stranger of me," the Boy interrupted. "Treat
me like a younger brother. You make me feel that I have succeeded in
establishing confidential relations between us, which is what I want."

The Tenor was about to reply, but his voice was drowned by a sudden
clangour of the bells above them. The clock struck, the chime rang, and
while they waited listening, the Tenor raised his hat. They were standing
at the corner of the cloisters, looking up to the clock tower and its
tapering spire, which surmounted the Norman façade and entrance to the
south transept.

"I must go," the Boy said, when he could hear himself speak.

"Will you not come in--to my house--I am afraid I am very wanting in
hospitality," the Tenor exclaimed. "I should have asked you before. I live
close by. I should be so glad--"

"Not to-night," the Boy interrupted hastily; "another time. Good-bye!"


CHAPTER VI.


When next the Tenor saw Angelica after he had learnt that she was the
Boy's sister, he felt that a new interest had been added to her
attractions.

It was on a Saturday afternoon in the cathedral, as usual, and she came in
late. But almost as soon as she had taken her seat she looked at the Tenor
with an earnest, anxious glance that reminded him of her brother, and her
colour deepened. The Boy had told her then, the Tenor thought, and he was
glad she knew that they had met; it was a bond of union which seemed to
bring her nearer.

He noticed now how like in feature the brother and sister were. The girl
looked taller as well as older, and was altogether on a larger scale, her
figure being amply developed for her age, while the Boy's was fragile to a
fault; her hair was dark too, while his was light; but with these slight
differences there was likeness enough to show that they were twins. They
both had the same shaped eyes, the same straight, well-defined, dark
eyebrows and long lashes, the same features, the same clear skin and even
teeth; but the expression was different. There was never any devilment in
the girl's face; it was always pale and tranquil, almost to sadness, as
the Tenor saw it, standing out in fair relief against the dark oak carving
of the stalls. Her movements were all made, too, with a certain quiet
dignity that seemed habitual. In the Boy, on the contrary, there was no
trace of that graceful attribute. He threw himself about, lolled,
lollopped, and gesticulated, with as much delight in the free play of his
muscles as if he were only let out to exercise them occasionally; and it
seemed as if he must always be at daggers drawn with dignity. But such a
slender intellectual creature could not without absurdity acquire the
ponderous movements and weight of manner of smaller wits and duller
brains. In the girl, quiescence was the natural outcome of womanly reserve;
in the Boy, it would have been mere affectation. His lightness and
brightness were his great charm at present, a charm, however, which was
much enhanced by moments of thoughtfulness, which gave glimpses of another
nature beneath, with more substantial qualities. The Tenor had soon
perceived that he was not all mischief, romp, and boyishness; all that was
on the surface; but beneath there was a strong will at work with some
purpose, or the Tenor, was much mistaken; and there was daring, and there
was originality. This was the Tenor's first impression, and further
acquaintance only confirmed it.

Having formed his opinion of the Boy's abilities, the Tenor began to make
plans for his future, and the selflessness of the man's nature showed
itself in nothing more clearly, perhaps, than in the consideration he gave
to the lad's career. His own had not cost him so much as a thought for
years; but now he roused himself and became ambitious all at once for the
Boy! He believed that there was the making of a distinguished man in him,
and he allowed the hope of being able to influence him in some worthy
direction to become as much a part of his daily life as another hope had
become--a hope which was strongly felt but not yet acknowledged, except in
so far as it took the form of a desire to see her, and made known its
presence with force in the pang of disappointment which he suffered if by
chance she failed to come as usual to the service on Saturday afternoon.
He saw in the girl an ideal, and had found soul enough in the
laughter-loving Boy to make him eager to befriend him.

And thus into the Tenor's life two new interests had found their way, and
something which had hitherto been wanting to make the music of it perfect
was heard at last in his wonderful voice when he sang.


CHAPTER VII.


About this time the weather changed; the nights were wet for a week, and
when it cleared up the Tenor had begun to do some work for the dean which
kept him at home in the evenings, so that he had no opportunity of seeing
the Boy, who only seemed to come abroad at night, for some little time. He
saw his sister, however, in the cathedral regularly once a week, and
always she gave him a friendly glance, by which his days were rounded as
by a blessing, and he felt content. His being so was entirely
characteristic. Another man in his place would have lost the charm of the
present in anxiety to reach some future which should be even more
complete. But the Tenor took no thought for the morrow; each day as it
came was a joy to him, and his hopes, if he had any, were a part of his
peace.

The work he was doing for the dean was interesting. He was making drawings
to illustrate a history of Anglo-Norman times which the dean was writing.
He drew well and with great facility; but these drawings, many of which
were architectural, required special care and accuracy, with the closest
attention to detail, which made the work fatiguing, particularly as he had
to do it at night, his only leisure time just then; and more than once he
had tired himself out, and been obliged to put it away and rest. On one of
these occasions, instead of going to bed, he stretched himself in an
easy-chair beside the open French window which looked out upon the
cathedral, and prepared to indulge in the quiet luxury of a pipe while he
rested his weary eyes. The great cathedral towered above him, and from
where he sat the Tenor caught a beautiful glimpse of it anglewise, of the
south transept and tower and spire; the rich perpendicular windows of the
clerestory, the bold span of the flying buttresses rising out of the plain
but solid Norman base, every detail of which he knew and appreciated.

It was a fair, still, starry night without, and the light air that blew in
upon him was sweet and refreshing. His mind wandered from subject to
subject--a sleepy sign--as he smoked, and presently he put down his pipe
and closed his eyes. He thought then that he had fallen asleep and was
dreaming, and in his dream he fancied he heard himself sing. "This is a
queer dream," he was conscious of saying. "That is my voice exactly. I
have often wondered how it sounded to other people, and now I am listening
to it myself, which is strange." But the strangest part of it was that the
words to which the music shaped itself in his mind were not the words of
any song he knew, but that expression of human nature which contains in
itself some of the grandest harmony in the language:

  "These our actors,
  As I foretold you, were all spirits, and
  Are melted into air, into thin air:
  And, like the baseless fabric of this vision,
  The cloud-capp'd towers, the gorgeous palaces,
  The solemn temples, the great globe itself;
  Yea, all which it inherit, shall dissolve;
  And, like this insubstantial pageant faded,
  Leave not a wreck behind. We are such stuff
  As dreams are made on, and our little life
  Is rounded with a sleep."

The last words repeated themselves over and over again, on different notes
and in another key each time, and with such powerful emphasis that at last
it aroused the Tenor, upon whose sleepy brain the fact that it was not a
voice but a violin to which he had been listening, dawned gradually, while
his trained ear further recognized the tone of a rare instrument, and the
touch of a master hand. He got up and went to the window. "Oh!" he
exclaimed, "is it you?" and there was a world of pleasure in the
exclamation. "Come in."

The Boy, who was standing in the road, opened the little garden gate, and
entered. "I am glad you have relented," he said; "for I meant to play
until I had softened your heart, and had persuaded you to take me in; and
the hope deferred was making me sick."

"I was asleep," the Tenor answered. "Why didn't you come in? You must have
known you would be welcome. Here is an easy-chair. Sit down. And, tell me,
why do we only meet at night? What do you do with yourself all day?"

"I am not a daylight beauty," the Boy declared. "I look best at night."

"But seriously?" the Tenor persisted.

"Oh, my tutor, you know--Sandhurst--exams--and that kind of thing."

"You are going into the army then?"

But the Boy, smiling, put the question by. The easy, pleasure-loving,
sensuous side of his nature was evidently uppermost, and when that was the
case it was so natural for him to shirk a disagreeable subject, that the
Tenor had not the heart to pursue it further.

"Won't you take your hat off?" he said presently.

The Boy put up both hands to it. "My head's a queer shape," he said,
tapping it. "You won't want to examine it phrenologically, will you?"

"No," the Tenor answered, smiling. "Not if you object."

"I do object. I don't like to be touched."

The Tenor, still smiling, watched, him as he carefully removed his hat.
His head was rather a peculiar shape. It was too broad at the back, and
too large altogether for his slight frame, though probably the thickness
of his fluffy light hair, which stood up all over it, innocent of parting
as the Tenor's own, added considerably to this last defect. There was
nothing so very extraordinary about it, however, and the Tenor did not see
why he should be sensitive on the subject, and rather suspected that the
boy was gravely poking fun at him; but as he could not be sure of this,
and would not have hurt his feelings for the world, he forebore to make
any remark.

The Boy glanced round the room. "What a wealthy luxurious fellow you are,"
he observed.

"These appearances of wealth, as you call it, are delusive," the Tenor
answered. "I just happened to have money enough to furnish my house when I
came here; but I am a very poor man now. I have little or nothing, in
fact, but my salary for singing in the choir."

"Oh," said the Boy. "And you might be so rich with your voice."

The Tenor brushed his hand back over his hair.

"Are you lazy?" the Boy demanded.

"No." he answered, smiling again. The Boy kept him smiling perpetually.

"What is it, then? Why don't you work?"

"Well, I do work," the Tenor answered him.

"I mean, why don't you make money?"

"Oh--because I have no one to make it for."

"If you had"--and the Boy leant forward eagerly--"would you? Would you
work for a lady who loved you if she gave herself to you?"

"I would work for my wife," said the Tenor.

"Are you engaged?" the Boy asked. There seemed no limit to his capacity
for asking.

The Tenor shook his head, and shook the ashes out of his pipe at the same
time.

"Are you in love?" the Boy persisted.

The Tenor made no reply to this impertinence, but a glow spread over his
face, forehead and chin and throat.

The Boy, whom nothing escaped, leant back satisfied. "I know what it is,"
he said, "She's married, and you don't like to ask her to run away with
you. I expect she would, you know, if you did."

The Tenor threw himself back in his chair and laughed.

His mirth seemed to jar on the Boy, who got up and began to pace about the
room, frowning and dissatisfied.

"You look pale," the Tenor said. "Have you been ill since; I saw you?"

"No--yes," the Boy answered. "I had a bad cold. I was very sorry for
myself."

The Tenor took up his violin, and examined it. "Where did you study?" he
asked.

"Everywhere," was the ungraciously vague reply.

"I wish you would play again," the Tenor said, taking no notice of his
ill-humour. "It would be a rare treat for a hermit like me."

"No," was the blunt rejoinder. "I don't want to make music. I want to
explore."

"Well, make yourself at home," the Tenor said, humouring him
good-naturedly.

"_Make_ me at home," the Boy replied. "Confidential relations, you
know. You may smoke if you like."

"Oh, thank you," the Tenor answered politely, sitting down in his
easy-chair, from which he had risen to look at the violin, and taking up
his pipe again.

The Boy was rummaging about now, and, finding much to interest him, he
presently recovered his temper, and began to banter his host. But even
this outlet was scarcely sufficient for his superfluous life and energy,
so he emphasized his remarks by throwing a stray cushion or two at the
Tenor; he jumped over the chairs instead of walking round them, and
performed an occasional _pas seul_, or pirouette, in various parts of
the room. When these innocent amusements palled upon him, he took up his
violin and played a plaintive air, to which he chanted:

  "There was a merry dromedary
  Waltzing on the plain;
  Dromedary waltzing, dromedary prancing.
  And all the people said, it is a sign of rain,
  When they saw the good beast dancing;"

executing grotesque steps himself at the same time in illustration.

"Oh, Boy, forbear!" the Tenor exclaimed at last, "or you will be the death
of me."

"That's it," the Boy responded cheerfully. "I mean to be life or death to
you."

After this he sat down on a high-backed chair, with his hands in his
pockets, his legs stretched out before him, and his chin on his chest,
looking up from under his eyebrows at the Tenor thoughtfully. It was an
interval of great gravity, and when he spoke again the Tenor looked for
something serious.

"I say," he began at last.

The Tenor took his pipe from his mouth and waited, interrogatively.

"I say, I'm hungry."

The Tenor looked his dismay.

"Boys always are, you know," the youth added, encouragingly.

"And if there should be nothing in the house!" the poor Tenor ejaculated.
"I'll go and see."

He returned quite crestfallen. "There _is_ nothing," he said; "at
least nothing but bread--no butter even."

"I don't believe you," said the Boy, rousing himself from his indolent
attitude.

"Boy, you mustn't say you don't believe me."

"But I don't," said the Boy. "I don't believe you know where to look. Are
the servants out?"

"Yes, my solitary attendant doesn't sleep here."

"Then I'll go and look myself."

"Oh, do, if you like," said the Tenor, much amused. And thinking the Boy
would enjoy himself best if he were left to rummage at his own sweet will,
he took up a book, brushed his hand back over his shining hair, and was
soon absorbed, But presently he was startled by a wild cry of distress
from the kitchen, and, jumping up hastily, he went to see what was the
matter.

He found the Boy standing at one end of the kitchen, clutching a vegetable
dish, and gazing with a set expression of absolute horror at some object
quite at the other end. The Tenor strained his own eyes in the same
direction, but could not at first make anything out. At last, however, he
distinguished a shining black thing moving, which proved to be a small
cockroach.

"Well, you _are_ a baby!" he exclaimed.

"I'm not," the Boy snapped. "It's an idiosyncrasy. I can't bear creepy
crawly things. They give me fits."

"I begin to perceive, Boy, that you have a reason for everything," the
Tenor observed, as he disposed of the innocent object of the Boy's
abhorrence.

"Put it out of sight," the latter entreated, looking nauseated.

But as soon as the Tenor had accomplished his mandate, his good humour
returned, and he began to beam again. "What a duffer you are!" he said,
taking the lid off the dish he held in his hand. "You have no imagination.
You never lifted a dish cover. Why, I've found a dozen eggs--fresh, for I
broke one into a cup to see; and here are a whole lot of cold potatoes."

"It doesn't sound appetizing; cold potatoes and raw eggs!"

"Sound! It isn't sound you judge by in matters of this kind. Just you
wait, and you shall see, smell, and taste."

"Well, if it please you," the Tenor answered lazily. "I see something
already. You have lighted a fire."

"Yes, and I've used all the dry sticks," said the Boy, with great glee.
"Won't the old woman _swear_ when she comes in the morning!"

The Tenor returned to his book, reflecting, as he prepared to resume it,
on the wonderful provision of nature which endows the growing animal not
only with such strong instincts of self-preservation, but with the power
to gratify them, and to take itself off at the same time and be happy in
so doing, thus saving those who have outgrown these natural proclivities
from some of their less agreeable consequences.

Presently a hot red face appeared at the door. "Did you say you liked your
eggs turned?" the Boy wanted to know.

"I didn't say; but I do, if you're frying them."

"And hard or soft?"

"Oh, soft."

"How many can you eat?"

"Half-a-dozen at least," the Tenor returned at random.

"And I can eat three"--with great gravity--"that will make nine, and leave
three for your breakfast in the morning. I daresay you won't want more
after such a late supper, I don't think I should myself."

"But do you mean me to understand that the voracity of the growing animal
will be satisfied with less than I can eat?"

"Well, you see," the Boy explained apologetically, "the heat of the fire
has taken a lot out of me."

"But the waste must be repaired."

"Yes, but the expenditure has been followed by a certain amount of
exhaustion, and the power to repair the waste has yet to be generated; it
will come as a sort of reaction of the organs which can only set in after
a proper period of repose--a sort of interregnum of their energies, you
know."

The Tenor threw back his golden head. "Oh, Boy!" he expostulated, "don't
make me laugh again to-night, don't, please!"

The Boy was very busy for the next ten minutes, arranging the table, and
quite in his element; cooing as he proceeded, and giving little muttered
reasons to himself, in his soft contralto voice, for everything he did.
That voice of his was wonderfully flexible; he could make it harsh,
grating, gruffly mannish, and caressing as a woman's, at will, but the
tone that seemed natural to it was the deep, mellow contralto into which
he always relapsed when not thinking of himself. The Tenor thought it
hardly rough enough for a boy of his age, but it was in harmony with his
fragile form, and delicate, effeminate features.

"Whom the gods love die young," flashed through his mind as he watched him
now, coming and going; and he sighed, it seemed so likely; and felt
already that he should miss the Boy; and wondered, with retrospective
self-pity, how he had managed to live at all with no such interest.

"A golden-headed, gray-eyed, white-toothed, fine-skinned son of the
morning must be a sybarite," the Boy observed, entering the room at that
moment; "so I bring flowers, and also salad, just cut and crisp."

"May I ask how you knew there was salad in my garden?"

"Well, you may _ask_," the Boy responded cheerfully; "but--let me
see, though--perhaps I had better tell you. I found that out the last time
I was here. Perhaps you don't know that I came? I wanted to discover the
resources of the place, so I took advantage of your temporary absence on
business one day, and inspected it."

"Where was I?" the Tenor asked.

"You were busy at the fire insurance office opposite."

"Do you mean the cathedral? Boy, I will not let you mock."

The Boy grinned. "It was the only time I could be at all sure of you," he
pursued. "You were going to sing a solo. I saw it advertised in the paper,
and laid my plans accordingly. But I _was_ in a fright! I thought you
might just happen to feel bad and be obliged to come out, and catch me. I
felt that strongly when I was picking your flowers in the greenhouse."

He left the room before the Tenor recovered, and returned with a tray on
which was the result of his enterprise.

"If you don't like eggs and potatoes fried as I fry them, you'll never
like anything again in this world," he asserted confidently, helping the
Tenor as he spoke. "The thing is to have the dripping boiling to begin
with, you know," he continued--"(I'll only give you two eggs at a
time)--then plunge them in, and as they brown take them off one by one and
put them on a hot dish--I'm speaking of the potatoes now; but don't cover
them up, it makes them flabby, and the great thing is to keep them crisp."

"They really are good," said the Tenor. But he had overestimated his
capacity, and could only dispose of three of the eggs.

The Boy was disgusted. However, he said it did not matter, since he was
there to sacrifice himself in the interests of science, and preserve the
balance of nature by eating the rest himself, a feat he accomplished
easily.

"Now this is what I call good entertainment for man and beast," he
observed.

"May I ask which is the beast?" the Tenor ventured.

"Why, I am, of course," said the Boy. "Did you ever know a boy who wasn't
half a beast?"

"Yes. It is all a matter of early association and surroundings."

"Well, if you knew the kind of moral atmosphere I have to breathe at home,
you would know also how little you ought to expect of me. But what shall
we drink?"

"There is some beer, I believe," the Tenor said dubiously.

"Burgundy is more in my line."

"Burgundy! A boy like you shouldn't know the difference.

"A _boy_ like me wouldn't, probably."

The Tenor smiled. "And what do you call yourself, pray? A man?" he asked.

"No; a bright particular spirit."

It was not inappropriate, the Tenor thought, and he got up. "It does not
often happen so," he said; "but now I think of it I believe I have some
Burgundy in the house. The dean sent me a dozen the last time I was out of
sorts, and there is some left."

"I know," said the Boy. "It is in the cupboard under the stairs on the
left hand side."

When the Tenor came back with the Burgundy the Boy settled himself in an
easy-chair with a glass on the table beside him, and it was evident that
his mood had changed. He was thoughtful for a little, sitting with solemn
eyes, looking out at the cathedral opposite.

There was only one rose-shaded lamp left alight in the long low room, and
the dimness within made it possible to see out into the clear night and
distinguish objects easily.

"When I look out at that great pile and realize its antiquity, I suffer,"
the Boy said at last, "Do you know what it is, the awful oppression of the
ages?"

The Tenor did not answer for a moment, then he said:

"I never see you at church."

"I should think not," the Boy replied, still speaking seriously. "You
never see anyone but Angelica."

The Tenor flushed.

"Why do you never speak to that sweet young lady?" the Boy asked
tentatively, after a little pause.

"I! How could I?"

"I fancy you ought to," the Boy went on, endeavouring to "draw" the Tenor.
"You can't expect her to make up to you, you know."

"Oh, Boy! how can you be so young!" the Tenor exclaimed, with a gesture of
impatience, but still amused.

The Boy sipped his wine, and gazed into the glass, delighting in the rich
deep colour. "I should think she would be delighted to make the
acquaintance of so great an artist," he said.

The Tenor bowed ironically. "May I ask if you are pursuing your
investigations as to what manner of man I am?" he asked.

"Well, yes," was the candid rejoinder; "I was. I suppose you think that
you ought not to speak without an introduction. Well, say I gave you one."

The Tenor laughed. He felt that he ought to let the subject drop, and at
the same time yielded to temptation.

"What would your introduction be worth?" he asked.

"Everything," the Boy rejoined. "I am on excellent terms with Angelica. We
have always been inseparable, and I get on with her capitally; and she's
not so easy to get on with, I can tell you," he added, as if taking credit
to himself.

  "When she is good she is very good indeed,
  But when she is naughty she is horrid.

"And just now she's mostly naughty. She isn't very happy."

The interest expressed in the Tenor's attitude was intensified, and
inquiry came into his eyes.

"She is not very happy," the Boy pursued with extreme deliberation,
"because you come no nearer."

"Boy, you are romancing," the Tenor said, with a shade of weariness in his
voice.

"I am not," the Boy replied. "I know all that Angelica thinks, and it is
of you--"

"Hush!" the Tenor exclaimed. "You must not tell me."

"But she--"

"I will not allow it."

"Well, there then, don't bite," said the Boy; "and I won't tell you
against your will that she thinks a great deal about you"--this
_presto_, in order to get it out before the Tenor could stop him.
"But I will tell you on my own account that I don't know the woman who
wouldn't."

A vivid flush suffused the Tenor's face, and he turned away.

"I hope you never say things like that to your sister," he objected, after
a time.

The Boy grinned. "Sometimes I do," he said, "only they're generally more
so."

There was a long silence after this, during which the Tenor changed his
attitude repeatedly. He was much disturbed, and he showed it. The Boy made
a great pretence of sipping his wine, but he had not in reality taken much
of it. He was watching the Tenor, and it was curious how much older he
looked while so engaged. The Tenor must have noticed the change in him,
which was quite remarkable, giving him an entirely different character,
but for his own preoccupation. As it was, however, he noticed nothing.

"Boy," he began at last, in a low voice and hesitating, "I want you to
promise me something." The Boy leant forward all attention. "I want you to
promise that you will not say anything like that--anything at all about me
to--"

"To Angelica?" The Boy seemed to think. "I will promise," he slowly
decided, "if you will promise me one thing in return."

"What is it?"

"Will you promise to tell me everything you think about her."

The Tenor laughed.

"You might as well," the Boy expostulated. "I've got to look after you
both and see that you don't make fools of yourselves. The youngness of
people in love is a caution!" And I should like to see Angelica safely
settled with you. A man with a voice like yours is a match for anyone.
There are obstacles, of course; but they can be got over--if you will
trust me."

"Oh, you impossible child!" the Tenor exclaimed.

"It is you who are impossible," the Boy said, in dudgeon. "You are too
ideal, too content to worship from afar off as Dante worshipped Beatrice.
I believe that was what killed her. If Dante had come to the scratch, as
he should have done, she would have been all right."

"Beatrice was a married woman," the Tenor observed.

The Boy shrugged his shoulders, but just then the cathedral clock struck
three, and he hastily finished his wine.

"I'll disperse," he said, when the chime was over. "Take care of my
fiddle. You'll find the case under the sofa. I left it the last time I was
here. By-the-bye, you should make the old woman stay at home to look after
the place when you're out. Unscrupulous people might walk in uninvited,
you know. Ta, ta," and the Tenor found himself alone.

It was no use to go to bed, he could not rest. His heart burned within
him. It was no use to tell himself that the Boy was only a boy. He knew
what he was saying, and he spoke confidently. He was one of those who are
wiser in their generation than the children of light. And he had
said--what was it he had said? Not much in words, perhaps, but he had
conveyed an impression. He had made the Tenor believe that she thought of
him. He believed it, and he disbelieved it. If she thought of him--he
threw himself down on the sofa, and buried his face in the cushions. The
bare supposition made every little nerve in his body tingle with joy. He
ought not to indulge in hope, perhaps; but, as the Boy himself might have
observed, you can't expect much sense from a man in that state of mind.

A few days later the Tenor saw his lady again in the canon's pew, and he
was sure, quite sure, she tried to suppress a smile.

"That little wretch has told her, and she is laughing at my presumption,"
was his distressed conclusion. "I'll wring his neck for him when he comes
again."

But when the service was over, and he had taken his surplice off, she
passed him in the nave, so close that he might have touched her, and
looked at him with eyes just like the Boy when he was shy; gave him a
quick half-frightened look, and blushed vividly; gave him time to speak,
too, had he chosen. But the Tenor was not the man to take advantage of a
girlish indiscretion.

When he went home, however, he was glad. And he opened his piano and sang
like one-inspired. "I am gaining more power in everything," he said to
himself, "I could make a position for her yet."


CHAPTER VIII.


A few nights later the Tenor went out for a stroll, leaving the windows
of his sitting room closed but not fastened, and the lamp turned down. On
his return he was surprised to find the window wide open and the room lit
up. The little garden gate was shut and bolted, He could easily have
reached over and opened it from the outside, but knowing that it creaked,
and not wanting to disturb his nocturnal visitor until he had ascertained
his occupation, he jumped over it lightly, walked across the grass plot to
the window, and looked in.

It was the Boy, of course. The Tenor recognized him at once, although all
he could see of him at first were his legs as he knelt on the floor with
his back to him and his head and shoulders under a sofa. "What, in the
name of fortune, is he up to now?" the Tenor wondered.

Just then the boy got up, frowning, and flushed with stooping. He stamped
his foot impatiently, and looked all round the room in search of
something. Suddenly his face cleared. He had discovered his violin oh the
top of a bookshelf above him, and that was apparently what he wanted, for
he made a dash at it, and took it down, and hugged it affectionately.

The Tenor smiled, and stepped down into the room. He did not wish to take
his visitor unawares, but the carpet was soft and thick, and his quick
step as he crossed to where the boy was standing with his back to him,
absorbed in the contemplation of his beloved instrument, made no noise, so
that when the Tenor laid his hand on the Boy's shoulder he did startle him
considerably. The Boy did not drop his instrument, but he uttered an
almost womanish shriek, and faced round with such a scared white look that
the Tenor thought he was going to faint. He recovered immediately,
however, and then exclaimed angrily: "How dare you startle me so?
Everybody knows I can't bear to be startled. If you are nothing but a
blunderer you will spoil everything. And I bolted the gate too. It would
have made a noise if you had opened it as you ought to have done, and then
I should have known, I've a good mind to go away now, and never come back
again."

"I am very sorry," said the Tenor. "But how was I to know it was you? It
might have been a thief."

"Thieves don't come to steal grand pianos and armchairs in lighted
chambers with the windows open and the blinds up," the Boy retorted.
"Don't you feel mean, spying around like that?"

"Are you an American?" the Tenor interrupted blandly.

"Yes, I am"--with asperity--"and you must have known quite well it was me.
Who else could get into the Close after the gates were shut?"

"I never thought of that," said the Tenor. "And how _do_ you get in,
pray? By the postern?"

"No," was the answer, "I come by the water-gate;" and his face cleared as
he saw the Tenor's puzzled glance at his garments.

"I'm not wet," he said. "I don't swim."

"But the ferry does not cross after six."

"No, but I do, you see. And now let us make music," he added, his good
humour restored by the Tenor's mystification. "If you will be so good as
to accompany me with your piano, I will give you a treat. I brought my
music the last time I was here;" and there it was, piled up, on a chair
beside the instrument.

The Tenor could have sworn that neither chair nor music was there when he
went out that evening, but what was the use of swearing? He felt sure that
the Boy in his present mood would have outsworn him without scruple had it
pleased him to maintain his assertion, so he opened his piano in silence,
and the music began. And it was a rare treat indeed which the Tenor
enjoyed that night. The Boy played with great technical mastery of the
instrument, but even that was not so remarkable as the originality of his
interpretations. He possessed that sympathetic comprehension of the
masters' ideas which is the first virtue of a musician; but even when he
was most true to it, he managed to throw some of his strong individuality
into the rendering, and hence the originality which was the special charm
of his playing. As an artist, he certainly satisfied; even the sensitive
soul of the Tenor was refreshed when he played; but in other respects he
was obviously deficient. So long as things were pleasant it was a question
whether he would ever stop to ask himself if they were right. Acts which
lead to no bodily evil, such as sickness or that lowering of the system
which lessens the power of enjoyment, he was not likely in his present
phase to see much objection to; and for the truth, for verbal accuracy in
his assertions that is, he had no particular respect. All this, however,
the Tenor was more reluctant to acknowledge, perhaps, than slow to
perceive. He was one of those who expect a great soul to accompany great
gifts, and what he did know of the Boy's shortcomings he condoned. He
believed the young tone-poet's power was in itself an indication of high
aspirations, and those he thought were only temporarily suppressed by a
boyish affectation of cynicism.

But the Boy did not give the Tenor much time to think. His mind was
quick-glancing, like his eyes when he was animated, and he carried the
Tenor along with him from one occupation to another with distracting glee.
When he was tired of making music, as he called it, he demanded food, and,
so long as he could cook it and serve it himself, he delighted in bacon
and eggs, as much as he did in Bach and Beethoven.

The Tenor tried to wean him of his nocturnal habits, but to this the Boy
would not listen. He said he liked to sit up all night, and when he said
he liked a thing, he seemed to think he had adduced an unanswerable
argument in its favour. The Tenor complained of fatigue. The long nights
affected his voice, he said, and made him unfit for work; but the Boy only
grinned at this, and told him he'd get used to it. Then he threatened to
shut up the house and go to bed if the Boy did not come in proper time,
and on one occasion he carried out his threat; but when the Boy arrived he
made night hideous with horrid howls until the Tenor could stand it no
longer, and was obliged to get up, and let him in, to preserve the peace
of the neighbourhood. After which the Tenor ceased to remonstrate, and it
became one of the pleasures of his life to prepare for this terrible
hungry Boy. He worked in his garden early and late, cultivating the
succulent roots which the latter loved, the fruits and the vegetables,
and, last, but not least, the flowers, for he never could feed without
flowers, be said, and the Tenor ministered to this exaction with the rest.
"He is dainty because he is delicate," the Tenor thought, always excusing
him. "When he is older and stronger he will grow out of all these
epicurean niceties of taste, I must make him dig, too, and fence, and row.
He'll soon develop more manliness."

That he was spoiling the Boy in the meantime never occurred to him, not
even when he noticed that the latter took all these kindnesses as a matter
of course, and only grumbled when some accustomed attention was omitted.

The Tenor was vexed sometimes, and obliged to find fault, but the Boy
could always soothe him. "I am sure you love me," he would say. "Your life
was not worth living until I came, and you could not live without me now.
I am a horrid little brute I know, but I have my finer feelings too, my
capacity for loving, and that raises me.

  "All love is sweet
  Given or returned."

When the Boy quoted or recited anything he really felt, he had a way of
lingering over the words as if each syllable were a pleasure to him. The
deep contralto of his voice was at its sweetest then, and he seldom failed
to make his own mood felt as he intended.

The Tenor, justly incensed by some wicked piece of mischief, was often
obliged to turn away that he might maintain his authority and not be seen
to soften. But he never deceived the Boy, who could gauge the effect of
his persuasion to a nicety, and would grin like a fiend behind the Tenor's
back at the success of his own eloquence. No matter what he had done, by
hook or by crook he always managed to bring about a reconciliation before
they parted. He knew the Tenor's weak point--Angelica--and when everything
else failed he would play upon that unmercifully. But he had a way of
speaking of his sister which often made the Tenor seriously angry. He did
not believe the Boy meant half the disrespect with which he mentioned her,
but it galled him, nevertheless; and, on one occasion, when the Boy had
repeated some scandalous gossip to which the Tenor objected, and afterward
excused himself by saying that it was not his but his sister's story, the
Tenor's indignation overflowed, and he lectured him severely.

"You should never forget that your sister is an innocent girl," he said,
"and it is degrading to her even to have her name associated with such
ideas."

But the Boy only grinned. "Bless you," he retorted, "don't make so much
ado about nothing. She's quite as wise as we are."

The Tenor's eyes flashed. "I call that disloyal," he said. "Even if it
were true--and it is not true--it would be disloyal; and I am ashamed of
you. If you ever dare to speak of your sister in that light way to me
again, I'll thrash you."

For a moment the Boy was astonished by the threat. His jaw dropped, and he
stared at the Tenor; but, quickly recovering himself, he burst into an
uncontrollable fit of laughter. "Oh, my!" he exclaimed. "What a
brother-in-law you would be! How do you know she is such a saint?"

"You are a little brute," was all the answer the Tenor vouchsafed. But the
question made him think. He could picture her to himself at any time as he
saw her in the canon's pew, and the pale proud purity of her face, with
the unvarying calm of her demeanour, were assurances enough for him. His
dear lady. His delicate-minded girl. He would stop it. He would make this
scapegrace brother of hers respect her, even as he had threatened, if
necessary.

"Do you know what she calls you?" that youth asked presently, breaking in
upon the Tenor's meditation in a confident way, as if he could not be
mistaken about the subject of it.

But the Tenor was not to be beguiled all at once. "I have already
requested you not to mention your sister to me," he said.

"I know," was the cool rejoinder. "But I promised on my word of honour to
tell you what she calls you. She calls you Israfil--Is-ra-fil," he
repeated, "the angel of song, you know."

But the Tenor made no sign. The Boy watched him a moment, and then
continued unabashed, "I shall call you Israfil myself, I think, for the
future. But I like your own name too!" he added. "I have only just found
it out. Everybody here calls you the Tenor, you know."

"And how did you find it out, pray, if I may ask?"

"I looked everywhere," said the Boy, glancing round him comprehensively;
"and at last I found it on the back of an old envelope that was in that
Bible you keep in your bedroom. Here it is," and he took it out of his
pocket-book. "David Julian Vanetemple, Esq., Haysthorpe Castle, Hays,
N.B."

A painful spasm contracted the Tenor's face, "Oh, Boy," he said, in a deep
stern voice that made the latter quail for once; "have you no sense of
honour at all? You must give that back to me immediately."

The Boy returned it without a word, and the Tenor went upstairs. His step
was listless, and when he came back he looked pale and disheartened. He
sat down in his accustomed seat beside the fireplace farthest from the
window that looked out upon the cathedral, but facing it himself, and
rested his elbow on the arm of the chair and his head on his hand, taking
no notice of the Boy, however, who waited a while, casting anxious glances
at him, and then rose softly and stole away.

When the Tenor roused himself he found a slip of paper on the table beside
him, on which was written, "Dear Israfil, I beg your pardon. I did it
without thinking. I will never hurt you like that again, only forgive me."
And the Tenor forgave him.

On another occasion, when there was peace between them, and they were both
in a merry mood, the Boy said he had a grievance, and when the Tenor asked
what it was, he complained that the Tenor had never taken interest enough
in him to ask him his name.

"No, now you mention it," the Tenor answered. "I never thought of your
having a name."

"Do you mean to say you think me such a nonentity?"

"Just the opposite. Your individuality is so strongly marked that you
don't seem to require to be labelled like other people, By-the-bye, what
is your name?"

"Claude."

The Tenor laughed ironically. "Oh, no," he said, "it is Maude you mean;
delicate, dainty, white-fingered Maude."

But the Boy only roared. This kind of insinuation never roused his
resentment; on the contrary, it delighted him. "Imagine the feelings of
the flowers," he said, with a burst of laughter that convulsed him, "if my
remarkable head, sunning over with curls, were to shine out on them
suddenly, and want to be their sun!"

"I am afraid you are incorrigible," the Tenor answered. "You seem to glory
in being effeminate. If wholesome ridicule has no effect, you'll die an
old woman in the opprobrious sense of the word."

"I'll make you respect these delicate fingers of mine, though," the Boy
irritably interposed, and then he took up his violin. "I'll make you
quiver."

He drew a long melodious wail from the instrument, then lightly ran up the
chromatic scale and paused on an upper note for an instant before he
began, with perfect certainty of idea and marvellous modulations and
transitions in the expression of it, to make music that steeped the
Tenor's whole being in bliss.

The latter had noticed before that it was to his senses absolutely, not at
all to his intellect, that the Boy's playing always appealed; but he did
not quarrel with it on that account, for music was the only form of
sensuous indulgence he ever rioted in, and besides, once under the spell
of the Boy's playing, he could not have resisted it even if he would, so
completely was he carried away. The Boy's white fingers were certainly not
out of place at such work. "Do I play like an old woman in the opprobrious
sense of the word?" he demanded, mimicking the Tenor.

"Oh, Boy!" the latter exclaimed, with a deep drawn sigh of satisfaction.
"Yon have genius. When you play you are like that creature in the 'Witch
of Atlas':

  A sexless thing it was, and in its growth
  It seemed to have developed no defect
  Of either sex, yet all the grace of both."

But the Boy frowned for a moment at the definition, and then he said: "Is
that what you call genius? Now I make it something like that, only
different. I believe it is the attributes of both minds, masculine and
feminine, perfectly united in one person of either sex."

The Tenor, lolling in his easy-chair, smiled at him lazily. There was no
end to his indulgence of the Boy; but still he led him, by example
principally, but also by suggestion, as on one occasion when the Boy had
been sketching out a scheme of life in which self was all predominant, and
the Tenor asked: "Do you never feel any impulse to do something for your
suffering fellow-creatures?"

To which the Boy at first rejoined derisively: "Am I not one of the best
of their benefactors? Would you say that a fellow who plays as I can does
nothing for his fellow-creatures? To make music is my vocation, and I
follow it like a man."

But after a moment's thought he confessed; "Once indeed I did try to do
some good in the world, but I failed disastrously,"

"What did you try?"

"I took a class in a Sunday school." He waited to enjoy the effect of this
announcement on the Tenor. "I did, indeed," he protested; "but--eh--I
cannot say that success attended the effort. In fact, both I and my class
were forcibly ejected from the building before the school closed. You see,
I had no vocation, and it was foolish to experiment."

The Tenor said no more on the subject and did not mean to, but the Boy
returned to it himself eventually, and it was evident that the wish to do
something for somebody was taking possession of him seriously. This was
the Tenor's tactful way with him; and from such slight indications of
awakening thought he continued to augur well for the Boy.


CHAPTER IX.


So time passed on, changing all things greatly, or with infinitesimal
changes, according to their nature. The colours worn in crowded
thoroughfares varied with the varying fashions; the tint of the summer
foliage with sun and rain and dust. Doors, closed the whole long winter,
were opened now and left so, and the young people passed to and fro,
thronging to river banks, but lately deserted; to the cricket fields,
garden, or wood, or lawn. The very faces of the streets were changing,
enlivened by plaster and paint and polish: the face of the land with the
certain advance of the season; the faces of friends with something not to
be named, but visible, strange, and, for the most part, disheartening. It
was the old story for ever and ever; all things changed always; but the
chime was immutable.

As the days grew gradually to weeks, his one connecting link with the
outer world became dearer and dearer to the lonely Tenor. The nights that
brought the Boy were happy nights, looked forward to with eagerness, and
prepared for with difficulty. For at this time the Tenor denied himself
some of the bare necessaries of life, that he might buy him the Burgundy
he loved to sip: he did no more than sip, and, therefore, the Tenor
indulged him; drink was not to be one of his vices, evidently.

The Tenor, although he would not have acknowledged it, held that the Boy
was a creature apart, and one, therefore, whom it was not fair to measure
by the common standard. Doubtless the manner of their meeting had
something to do with this idea. The Boy was associated in the Tenor's mind
with many sweet associations; with the beautiful still night; with the
Tenor's far off ideal of all that is gracious and womanly; with the music
that was in him; and, further, with a sympathetic comprehension of those
moments when gray glimpses of the old cathedral, or a warm breath of
perfumed air from the garden, or some slight sound, such as the note of a
night bird breaking the silence, fired a train of deep emotion, and set
his whole poetic nature quivering, to the unspeakable joy of it; joy
sanctified by reverence, and enlarged beyond comparison by love.

With such moods as these the Boy's own mood was always in harmony; so much
so indeed that the Tenor thought it was then that he was himself, and that
those wild ebullitions of spirits were only affected to disguise some
deeper feeling of which, boy-like, he was ashamed. As their intimacy
ripened there were times when, not only his whole demeanour, but his very
nature seemed to change; when he craved for dimness and quiet; and when he
would work upon the Tenor with little caressing ways that won his heart
and drew from him, although he was habitually undemonstrative, expressions
of tenderness which were almost paternal.

In his quieter moods the Boy would sit in the dim lamplight on a footstool
beside the Tenor's chair, leaning his head against the arm of it, while
the latter smoked, and the tap, tap, tap, of the clematis and honeysuckle
on the window pane kept time to the thoughts of each. Long intervals of
silence were natural to the Tenor, and it was generally the Boy who broke
the charm. He would talk seriously then, and often about his sister, and
was not to be silenced until he had had his say. He conquered the Tenor as
usual by his persistence, but the latter was not much influenced by what
he said at first. Gradually, however, and by dint of constant iteration,
some of the Boy's assertions became impressed upon his mind. He began to
believe that Angelica did wish to make his acquaintance, and to admit to
himself that there might be a possibility of winning her regard eventually;
but his high mindedness shrank from approaching a girl whose social
position was so far above his own--in the matter of money that is. For of
course the Tenor had a proper respect for art. He knew that to be a great
artist, with the will and power to make his art elevating, is to be great
in the greatest way; and he also knew that his own gift was second to
none. But would she link her lot with his? He yearned for some assurance.
Never had he been challenged so.
With his own people he had ever been used to cringing and abasement, and
he had played the tyrant, and struck hard and cruelly, and he had
been feared; but here, behind David's courteous attitude, there was a
scathing arraignment of his conduct which took no count of consequence.
In other circumstances his vanity would have shrunk under this whip of
words, but his native reason and his quick humour would have justified
David. In this black distemper possessing him, however, only outraged egotism
prevailed. His hands clenched and unclenched, his lips were drawn back on
his teeth in rage.

When David had finished, Kaid suddenly got to his feet and took a step
forward with a malediction, but a faintness seized him and he staggered
back.

When he raised his head again David was gone.

CHAPTER XXX

LACEY MOVES

If there was one glistening bead of sweat on the bald pate of Lacey of Chicago
there were a thousand; and the smile on his face was not less shining
and unlimited. He burst into the rooms of the palace where David had
residence, calling: "Oyez! Oyez! Saadat! Oh, Pasha of the Thousand
Tails! Oyez! Oyez!"

Getting no answer, he began to perform a dance round the room, which
in modern days is known as the negro cake-walk.

It was not dignified, but it would have been less dignified still performed
by any other living man of forty-five with a bald head and a waist-band
ten inches too large.
Round the room three times he went, and then he dropped on a divan. He
gasped, and mopped his face and forehead, leaving a little island of
moisture on the top of his head untouched. After a moment, he gained breath
and settled down a little.

Then he burst out:

"Are you coming to my party, O effendi?
There'll be high jinks, there'll be welcome, there'll be room; For
to-morrow we are pulling stakes for Shendy.

Are you coming to my party, O Nahoum?"
"Say, I guess that's pretty good on the spur of the moment," he wheezed,
and, taking his inseparable note book from his pocket, wrote the impromptu
down. "I guess She'll like that-it rings spontaneous. She'll be tickled,
tickled to death, when she knows what's behind it." He repeated it with
gusto.

"She'll dote on it," he added--the person to whom he referred being the
sister of the American Consul, the little widow, "cute as she can
be," of whom he had written to Hylda in the letter which had brought
a crisis in her life.

As he returned the note- book to his pocket a door opened.

Mahommed Hassan slid forward into the room, and stood still, impassive
and gloomy.

Lacey beckoned, and said grotesquely:

"'Come hither, come hither, my little daughter, And do not tremble so!'"

A sort of scornful patience was in Mahommed's look, but he came nearer
and waited.

"Squat on the ground, and smile a smile of mirth, Mahommed," Lacey
said riotously.

"'For I'm to be Queen o' the May, mother, I'm to be Queen o' the
May!'"

Mahommed's face grew resentful. "O effendi, shall the camel-driver
laugh when the camels are lost in the khamsin and the water-bottle
is empty?"

"Certainly not, O son of the spreading palm; but this is not a
desert, nor a gaudy caravan.

This is a feast of all angels. This is the day when Nahoum the Nefarious
is to be buckled up like a belt, and ridden in a ring. Where is the Saadat?"

"He is gone, effendi! Like a mist on the face of the running water,
so was his face; like eyes that did not see, so was his look. 'Peace
be to thee, Mahommed, thou art faithful as Zaida,' he said, and
he mounted and rode into the desert.

I ran after till he was come to the edge of the desert; but he sent me
back, saying that I must wait for thee; and this word I was to
say, that Prince Kaid had turned his face darkly from him, and that
the finger of Sharif--"
"That fanatical old quack--Harrik's friend!"

"--that the finger of Sharif was on his pulse; but the end of all
was in the hands of God."

"Oh yes, exactly, the finger of Sharif on his pulse! The old story-the
return to the mother's milk, throwing back to all the Pharaohs.

Well, what then?" he added cheerfully, his smile breaking out again.
"Where has he gone, our Saadat?"

"To Ebn Ezra Bey at the Coptic Monastery by the Etl Tree, where
your prophet Christ slept when a child."

Lacey hummed to himself meditatively.

"A sort of last powwow--Rome before the fall. Everything wrong, eh?

Kaid turned fanatic, Nahoum on the tiles watching for the Saadat to fall,
things trembling for want of hard cash. That's it, isn't it,
Mahommed?"
Mahommed nodded, but his look was now alert, and less sombre. He had
caught at something vital and confident in Lacey's tone. He drew
nearer, and listened closely.

"Well, now, my gentle gazelle, listen unto me," continued Lacey. He suddenly
leaned forward, and spoke in subdued but rapid tones.

"Say, Mahommed, once upon a time there was an American man, with a
shock of red hair, and a nature like a spring-lock.

He went down to Mexico, with a million or two of his own money got
honestly by an undisputed will from an undisputed father--you don't
understand that, but it doesn't matter-- and with a few millions
of other people's money, for to gamble in mines and railways and
banks and steamship companies--all to do with Mexico what the Saadat
has tried to do in Egypt with less money; but not for the love of
Allah, same as him.

This American was going to conquer like Cortez, but his name was Thomas
Tilman Lacey, and he had a lot of gall.

After years of earnest effort, he lost his hair and the millions of the
Infatuated Conquistadores. And by-and-by he came to Cairo with a thimbleful
of income, and began to live again.

There was a civil war going on in his own country, but he thought that one
out of forty millions would not be strictly missed. So he stayed in Egypt;
and the tale of his days in Egypt, is it not written with a neboot of
domwood in the book of Mahommed Hassan the scribe?"
He paused and beamed upon the watchful Mahommed, who, if he did not
understand all that had been said, was in no difficulty as to the
drift and meaning of the story.

"Aiwa, effendi," he urged impatiently. "It is a long ride to the Etl Tree,
and the day is far spent."
"Inshallah, you shall hear, my turtle-dove! One day there came to Cairo,
in great haste, a man from Mexico, looking for the foolish one
called T.
T. Lacey, bearing glad news.

And the man from Mexico blew his trumpet, and straightway T. T. Lacey
fell down dismayed.

The trumpet said that a million once lost in Mexico was returned, with a
small flock of other millions; for a mine, in which it was sunk, had burst
forth with a stony stream of silver. And behold! Thomas Tilman Lacey, the
despised waster of his patrimony and of other people's treasure, is now, O
son of the fig-flower, richer than Kaid Pasha and all his eunuchs."

Suddenly Mahommed Hassan leaned forward, then backward, and, after the fashion
of desert folk, gave a shrill, sweet ululation that seemed to fill
the palace.

"Say, that's A1," Lacey said, when Mahommed's voice sank to a whisper
of wild harmony. "Yes, you can lick my boots, my noble sheikh of Manfaloot,"
he added, as Mahommed caught his feet and bent his head upon them. "I
wanted to do something like that myself. Kiss 'em, honey; it'll
do you good."

After a moment, Mahommed drew back and squatted before him in an attitude
of peace and satisfaction. "The Saadat--you will help him? You will give
him money?"
"Let's put it in this way, Mahommed: I'll invest in an expedition out of
which I expect to get something worth while--concessions for mines and
railways, et cetera." He winked a round, blue eye. "Business is business,
and the way to get at the Saadat is to talk business; but you can
make up your mind that,

"'To-morrow, we are pulling stakes for Shendy!
Are you coming to my party, O Nahoum?'"
"By the prophet Abraham, but the news is great news," said Mahommed
with a grin. "But the Effendina?"
"Well, I'll try and square the Effendina," answered Lacey. "Perhaps
the days of backsheesh aren't done in Egypt, after all."
"And Nahoum Pasha?" asked Mahommed, with a sinister look.

"Well, we'll try and square him, too, but in another way."

"The money, it is in Egypt?" queried Mahommed, whose idea was that money to
be real must be seen. "Something that's as handy and as marketable,"
answered Lacey. "I can raise half a million to-morrow; and that will do a
lot of what we want. How long will it take to ride to the monastery?"

Mahommed told him.

Lacey was about to leave the room, when he heard a voice outside.
"Nahoum!" he said, and sat down again on the divan. "He has come to
see the Saadat, I suppose; but it'll do him good to see me, perhaps.
Open the sluices, Mahommed."
Yes, Nahoum would be glad to see the effendi, since Claridge Pasha was not
in Cairo. When would Claridge Pasha return? If, then, the effendi expected
to see the Saadat before his return to Cairo, perhaps he would convey a
message. He could not urge his presence on the Saadat, since he had not
been honoured with any communication since yesterday.

"Well, that's good-mannered, anyhow, pasha," said Lacey with cheerful
nonchalance. "People don't always know when they're wanted or not
wanted."
Nahoum looked at him guardedly, sighed and sat down. "Things have grown worse
since yesterday," he said. "Prince Kaid received the news badly." He shook
his head. "He has not the gift of perfect friendship. That is a Christian
characteristic; the Muslim does not possess it. It was too strong to
last, maybe--my poor beloved friend, the Saadat."
"Oh, it will last all right," rejoined Lacey coolly. "Prince Kaid has got a
touch of jaundice, I guess. He knows a thing when he finds it, even if
he hasn't the gift of 'perfect friendship,' same as Christians
like you and me.

But even you and me don't push our perfections too far --I haven't noticed
you going out of your way to do things for your 'poor beloved friend,
the Saadat'."
"I have given him time, energy, experience--money."
Lacey nodded. "True.

And I've often wondered why, when I've seen the things you didn't give and
the things you took away."
Nahoum's eyes half closed. Lacey was getting to close quarters with
suspicion and allusion; but it was not his cue to resent them yet.

"I had come now to offer him help; to advance him enough to carry through
his expedition."

"Well, that sounds generous, but I guess he would get on without
it, pasha.

He would not want to be under any more obligations to you."
"He is without money. He must be helped."
"Just so."
"He cannot go to the treasury, and Prince Kaid has refused.

Why should he decline help from his friend?"

Suddenly Lacey changed his tactics.
He had caught a look in Nahoum's eyes which gave him a new thought.
"Well, if you've any proposition, pasha, I'll take it to him. I'll be seeing
him to-night."
"I can give him fifty thousand pounds."
"It isn't enough to save the situation, pasha."

"It will help him over the first zareba."

"Are there any conditions?" "There are no conditions, effendi." "And
interest?"
"There would be no interest in money."
"Other considerations?"
"Yes, other considerations, effendi."

"If they were granted, would there be enough still in the stocking
to help him over a second zareba--or a third, perhaps?"

"That would be possible, even likely, I think. Of course we speak in
confidence, effendi."
"The confidence of the 'perfect friendship.'"
"There may be difficulty, because the Saadat is sensitive; but it
is the only way to help him.

I can get the money from but one source; and to get it involves an
agreement."

"You think his Excellency would not just jump at it--that it might
hurt some of his prejudices, eh?"
"So, effendi."
"And me--where am I in it, pasha?"
"Thou hast great influence with his Excellency."
"I am his servant--I don't meddle with his prejudices, pasha."
"But if it were for his own good, to save his work here."
Lacey yawned almost ostentatiously. "I guess if he can't save it
himself it can't be saved, not even when you reach out the hand
of perfect friendship.

You've been reaching out for a long time, pasha, and it didn't save the steamer
or the cotton-mills; and it didn't save us when we were down by Sobat a
while ago, and you sent Halim Bey to teach us to be patient. We got out
of that nasty corner by sleight of hand, but not your sleight of hand,
pasha. Your hand is a quick hand, but a sharp eye can see the trick,
and then it's no good, not worth a button."
There was something savage behind Nahoum's eyes, but they did not show it;
they blinked with earnest kindness and interest. The time would come when
Lacey would go as his master should go, and the occasion was not far off
now; but it must not be forced. Besides, was this fat, amorous- looking
factotum of Claridge Pasha's as Spartan-minded as his master?
Would he be superior to the lure of gold? He would see.

He spoke seriously, with apparent solicitude.

"Thou dost not understand, effendi. Claridge Pasha must have money.
Prestige is everything in Egypt, it is everything with Kaid.

If Claridge Pasha rides on as though nothing has happened--and money
is the only horse that can carry him--Kaid will not interfere, and
his black mood may pass; but any halting now and the game is done."
"And you want the game to go on right bad, don't you? Well, I guess you're
right. Money is the only winner in this race. He's got to have money, sure.
How much can you raise? Oh, yes, you told me! Well, I don't think
it's enough; he's got to have three times that; and if he can't
get it from the Government, or from Kaid, it's a bad lookout.

What's the bargain you have in your mind?"
"That the slave-trade continue, effendi."
Lacey did not wink, but he had a shock of surprise. On the instant
he saw the trap--for the Saadat and for himself.

"He would not do it--not for money, pasha."
"He would not be doing it for money. The time is not ripe for it, it is too
dangerous. There is a time for all things. If he will but wait!"
"I wouldn't like to be the man that'd name the thing to him. As you
say, he's got his prejudices. They're stronger than in most men."
"It need not be named to him. Thou canst accept the money for him, and
when thou art in the Soudan, and he is going to do it, thou canst
prevent it."

"Tell him that I've taken the money and that he's used it, and he oughtn't
to go back on the bargain I made for him?

So that he'll be bound by what I did?"

"It is the best way, effendi."
"He'd be annoyed," said Lacey with a patient sigh.

"He has a great soul; but sometimes he forgets that expediency is the true
policy."
"Yet he's done a lot of things without it. He's never failed in what he set
out to do.

What he's done has been kicked over, but he's done it all right,
somehow, at last."
"He will not be able to do this, effendi, except with my help--and thine."

"He's had quite a lot of things almost finished, too," said Lacey
reflectively, "and then a hand reached out in the dark and cut the wires
--cut them when he was sleeping, and he didn't know; cut them when he was
waking, and he wouldn't understand; cut them under his own eyes,
and he wouldn't see; because the hand that cut them was the hand
of the perfect friend."

He got slowly to his feet, as a cloud of colour drew over the face
of Nahoum and his eyes darkened with astonishment and anger. Lacey put
his hands in his pockets and waited till Nahoum also rose. Then he gathered
the other's eyes to his, and said with drawling scorn:

"So, you thought I didn't understand! You thought I'd got a brain like a
peanut, and wouldn't drop onto your game or the trap you've set. You'd
advance money--got from the slave-dealers to prevent the slave-trade
being stopped!

If Claridge Pasha took it and used it, he could never stop the slave-trade.
If I took it and used it for him on the same terms, he couldn't stop
the slave-trade, though he might know no more about the bargain than a
babe unborn.

And if he didn't stand by the bargain I made, and did prohibit slave-dealing,
nothing'd stop the tribes till they marched into Cairo. He's been safe
so far, because they believed in him, and because he'd rather die a million
deaths than go crooked. Say, I've been among the Dagos before--down
in Mexico--and I'm onto you. I've been onto you for a good while; though
there was nothing I could spot certain; but now I've got you, and I'll
break the 'perfect friendship' or I'll eat my shirt. I'll--"
He paused, realising the crisis in which David was moving, and that perils
were thick around their footsteps. But, even as he thought of them, he
remembered David's own frank, fearless audacity in danger and difficulty,
and he threw discretion to the winds. He flung his flag wide, and believed
with a belief as daring as David's that all would be well.

"Well, what wilt thou do?" asked Nahoum with cool and deadly menace.
"Thou wilt need to do it quickly, because, if it is a challenge, within
forty-eight hours Claridge Pasha and thyself will be gone from Egypt--or
I shall be in the Nile."

"I'll take my chances, pasha," answered Lacey, with equal coolness. "You
think you'll win.

It's not the first time I've had to tackle men like you--they've got the
breed in Mexico. They beat me there, but I learned the game, and
I've learned a lot from you, too.

I never knew what your game was here. I only know that the Saadat saved
your life, and got you started again with Kaid. I only know that you called
yourself a Christian, and worked on him till he believed in you, and Hell
might crackle round you, but he'd believe, till he saw your contract signed
with the Devil--and then he'd think the signature forged. But he's
got to know now. We are not going out of Egypt, though you may be
going to the Nile; but we are going to the Soudan, and with Kaid's
blessing, too.

You've put up the bluff, and I take it.

Be sure you've got Kaid solid, for, if you haven't, he'll be glad to know
where you keep the money you got from the slave-dealers."

Nahoum shrugged his shoulders. "Who has seen the money? Where is the proof?
Kaid would know my reasons.

It is not the first time virtue has been tested in Egypt, or the
first time that it has fallen."
In spite of himself Lacey laughed. "Say, that's worthy of a great Christian
intellect. You are a bright particular star, pasha. I take it back--they'd
learn a lot from you in Mexico. But the only trouble with lying is, that
the demand becomes so great you can't keep all the cards in your head,
and then the one you forget does you. The man that isn't lying has the
pull in the long run. You are out against us, pasha, and we'll see how
we stand in forty-eight hours. You have some cards up your
sleeve, I suppose; but--well, I'm taking you on. I'm taking you on with a
lot of joy, and some sorrow, too, for we might have pulled off a big thing
together, you and Claridge Pasha, with me to hold the stirrups.

Now it's got to be war. You've made it so. It's a pity, for when we grip
there'll be a heavy fall."

"For a poor man thou hast a proud stomach."

"Well, I'll admit the stomach, pasha.

It's proud; and it's strong, too; it's stood a lot in Egypt; it's standing
a lot to-day."

"We'll ease the strain, perhaps," sneered Nahoum. He made a perfunctory
salutation and walked briskly from the room.

Mahommed Hassan crept in, a malicious grin on his face.

Danger and conflict were as meat and drink to him.

"Effendi, God hath given thee a wasp's sting to thy tongue. It is well.
Nahoum Pasha hath Mizraim: the Saadat hath thee and me."
"There's the Effendina," said Lacey reflectively.

"Thou saidst thou would 'square' him, effendi."

"I say a lot," answered Lacey rather ruefully. "Come, Mahommed, the
Saadat first, and the sooner the better."

CHAPTER XXXI
THE STRUGGLE IN THE DESERT
"And His mercy is on them that fear Him throughout all generations."
On the clear, still evening air the words rang out over the desert, sonorous,
imposing, peaceful. As the notes of the verse died away the answer came
from other voices in deep, appealing antiphonal:

"He hath showed strength with His arm, He hath scattered the proud
in the imagination of their hearts."

Beyond the limits of the monastery there was not a sign of life; neither
beast nor bird, nor blade of grass, nor any green thing; only the perfect
immemorial blue, and in the east a misty moon, striving in vain to offer
light which the earth as yet rejected for the brooding radiance of the
descending sun. But at the great door of the monastery there grew a
stately palm, and near by an ancient acacia-tree; and beyond the
stone chapel there was a garden of struggling shrubs and green
things, with one rose-tree which scattered its pink leaves from
year to year upon the loam, since no man gathered bud or blossom.

The triumphant call of the Magnificat, however beautiful, seemed strangely
out of place in this lonely island in a sea of sand.

It was the song of a bannered army, marching over the battle-field
with conquering voices, and swords as yet unsheathed and red, carrying
the spoils of conquest behind the laurelled captain of the host. The
crumbling and ancient walls were surrounded by a moat which a stranger's
foot crossed hardly from moon to moon, which the desert wayfarer sought
rarely, since it was out of the track of caravans, and because food was
scant in the refectory of this Coptic brotherhood. It was scarce five
hours' ride from the Palace of the Prince Pasha: but it might have
been a thousand miles away, so profoundly separate was it from the
world of vital things and deeds of men.

As the chant rang out, confident, majestic, and serene, carried by
voices of power and shrill sweetness, which only the desert can
produce, it might have seemed to any listener that this monastery
was all that remained of some ancient kingdom of brimming, active
cities, now lying beneath the obliterating sand, itself the monument
and memorial of a breath of mercy of the Destroyer, the last refuge
of a few surviving captains of a departed greatness.

Hidden by the grey, massive walls, built as it were to resist the onset of
a ravaging foe, the swelling voices might well have been those of
some ancient order of valiant knights, whose banners hung above
them, the 'riclame' of their deeds.

But they were voices and voices only; for they who sang were as unkempt
and forceless as the lonely wall which shut them in from the insistent
soul of the desert.

Desolation? The desert was not desolate. Its face was bare and burning,
it slaked no man's thirst, gave no man food, save where scattered
oases were like the breasts of a vast mother eluding the aching
lips of her parched children; but the soul of the desert was living
and inspiring, beating with vitality.

It was life that burned like flame. If the water-skin was dry and the date-bag
empty it smothered and destroyed; but it was life; and to those who ventured
into its embrace, obeying the conditions of the sharp adventure, it gave
what neither sea, nor green plain, nor high mountain, nor verdant valley
could give--a consuming sense of power, which found its way to the deepest
recesses of being.
Out upon the vast sea of sand, where the descending sun was spreading a
note of incandescent colour, there floated the grateful words:

"He remembering His mercy hath holpen His servant Israel; as He
promised to our forefathers, Abraham, and his seed for ever."
Then the antiphonal ceased; and together the voices of all within
the place swelled out in the Gloria and the Amen, and seemed to
pass away in ever-receding vibrations upon the desert, till it was
lost in the comforting sunset.But even if it were,
trifles, as all the world knows, are not to be despised. Someone has said
already that they made up the sum of life, and it may also be observed
that the hand of death is weighted by them.


CHAPTER XII.


The Tenor happened to be entering the cathedral next day for the afternoon
service just as Angelica was being handed from a carriage by a singular
looking man who wore _pince-nez_, was clean shaven, and had an
immense head of hair. Angelica very evidently called the attention of this
gentleman to the Tenor as he passed, and the latter heard the "Ach!" of
satisfaction to which the stranger gave utterance when he had adjusted his
_pince-nez_ with undisguised interest, and taken the Tenor in.

The latter felt that he had seen the man before, and while he was putting
on his surplice he remembered who he was, an _impresario_, well-known
by sight to regular opera goers and musicians generally. Having
established his identity, the reason of his presence there that afternoon
was at once apparent. The Tenor had been requested to sing a solo which
was admirably calculated to display the range and flexibility of his voice
to the best advantage, and the _impresario_ had been brought to hear
him. The mountain had come to Mahomet.

The Tenor never sang better than upon that occasion, and he had scarcely
reached his cottage after the service was over, when the _impresario_
burst in upon him, having, in his eagerness, omitted the ceremony of
knocking. He seized the Tenor's hand, exclaiming in broken English:--"Oh,
my tear froind, you are an ideal!" Then he flung his hat on the floor, and
curvetted about the room, alternately rubbing his hands and running his
fingers upward through his luxuriant hair till it stood on end all over
his head. "And have I found you?" he cried sentimentally, apostrophising
the ceiling. "Oh, have I found you? What a _Lohengrin!_ Ach Gott! it
is the prince himself. Boat"--and he stopped prancing in order to point
his long forefinger at the Tenor's chest--"boat you are an actor born, my
froind! You was the _Prince of Devotion_ himself jus' now. You do
that part as if you feel him too! Why"--jerking his head towards the
cathedral with a gesture which signified that if he had not seen the thing
himself he never could have believed it--"why, you loose yourself in there
kompletely!" Then he asked the Tenor to sing again, which the Tenor did,
being careful, however, not to give his excitable visitor too much lest
the intoxicating draught should bring on a fit.

The music-mad-one had come to make the Tenor golden offers, and he did not
leave him now until the Tenor had agreed to accept them.

The dean came in by chance in time to witness the conclusion of the
bargain, adding by his congratulations and good wishes to the Tenor's own
belief that such an opportunity was not to be lost. The drawings the Tenor
had been doing for the dean were all but finished now, and it was arranged
that the Tenor should enter upon his new engagement in one month's time.

When he found himself alone at last and could think the matter over, he
was thoroughly content with what he had done. There could be no doubt now
as to whose wish it was that he should go and make a name for himself; and
he felt sure that the step he was about to take would not lead to the
separation he dreaded, but rather to the union for which he might at last
without presumption; after such encouragement, venture to hope.


CHAPTER XIII.


A few nights after the Tenor had signed the agreement the Boy burst in
upon him, exclaiming in guttural accents: "Oh, my tear froind! have I
found you?" Then he threw his hat on the floor and began to prance up and
down, waving his hands ecstatically.

The Tenor picked up a cushion and threw it at him. "You wretched Boy!" he
said laughing. "Who told you he did that?"

"Oh, my _dear_ Israfil!" the Boy replied. "Why on earth do you ask
who _told_ me? You must know by this time, and if you don't you
should, that genius does not require to be told. Given the man and the
circumstances, and we'll tell you exactly what he'll do, don't you know,"
and the Boy showed his teeth.

But the Tenor was not convinced. "Knowing your patience and zeal when
engaged in the pursuit of knowledge--I think that was the euphemism you
employed the last time you had to apologize for the unscrupulous
indulgence of your boundless curiosity," the Tenor, standing with his back
to the Boy, observed with easy deliberation, as he filled and lighted a
pipe, "I have little doubt that you assisted at the interview from some
safe coigne of 'vantage--to borrow another of your pet-expressions--perhaps
from the closet under the stairs there--"

"Or from behind the sofa," the Boy suggested, with that enigmatical grin
of his which the Tenor disliked, perhaps because it was enigmatical, "Like
my new suit, Israfil?" he demanded in exactly the same tone. He had on a
spotless flannel boating suit, with a silk handkerchief of many colours,
knotted picturesquely round his neck.

"It's too new," said the Tenor. "It looks as if you'd got it for private
theatricals, and taken great care of it."

The Boy laughed, and then, assuming another character, he began to
remonstrate with himself playfully in the Tenor's voice.

"Boy, will you never be more manly?" and "Don't mock, Boy!" and "Boy, you
have no soul!" and "Oh, Boy, you're not high-minded." Then he did a love
scene between the Tenor and Angelica. The Tenor tried to stop this last
performance, but he only made matters worse, for the Boy argued the
question out in Angelica's voice, taking the part of "dear Claude"--he
still insisted that his name was Claude--and ending with: "Dear Israfil,
we are so happy ourselves, I think Claude should have a little latitude
to-night. He studies so hard, poor boy, he deserves some indulgence."

When this amusement ceased to divert him, he announced his intention of
going on the stage, of not going home till morning, and of being rowed
down the river in the meantime.

"But where will you get a boat at this time of night?" the Tenor objected.

"You're not a man of much imagination," said the Boy, "or you wouldn't
have asked such a question. How do you suppose I come every night, after
all the world is barred and bolted out of your sacred Close, and the
alternative lies between the porter at the postern, whom you know I shun,
and the water-gate?"

"Do you mean to say you row yourself down the river, every time you come?"

"I do," said the Boy complacently.

"I didn't think you could!" was the Tenor's naive ejaculation.

The Boy was delighted. "It never struck you, I suppose," he chuckled,
"that my fragile appearance might be delusive? Haven't you noticed I never
tire?"

"Yes," said the Tenor. "But I thought that you probably paid for these
nights of dissipation by days of languor."

The Boy laughed again. "Don't know the sensation," he declared. "Days of
laziness would be nearer the mark. I have plenty of them."

It was a lovely night, all pervaded by the fragrance of the flowers in the
gardens round about the Close.

They sauntered out, turning to the left from the Tenor's cottage, the
cathedral being on their right, the cloisters in front. The Boy walked up
to the latter and peeped in, "Come here, dear Israfil," he said
obligingly, "and I will show you the beauties of the place. These are the
cloisters, and, as you see, they form a hollow square, nearly two hundred
feet long, and twelve feet wide, Yon slowly rising moon shows the bare
quadrangle In the centre, and the tracery of the windows opposite; but the
exquisite groining of the roof, and the quaintly sculptured bosses, are
still hidden in deep darkness. The light, however, brightens in the
northeast corner, and--if you weren't in such a _hem_ hurry, Israfil--"
The Tenor had walked on, but the Boy stayed where he was, and now began
to improve the occasion at the top of his voice.

The Tenor returned hurriedly. "For Heaven's sake hold your tongue!" he
expostulated, "You'll wake the whole Close."

"I was calling your attention to the details of the architecture," the Boy
rejoined politely; and, as usual, for the sake of peace and quietness the
unfortunate Tenor was obliged to hear him out.

When he stopped, the Tenor exclaimed "Thank Heaven!" devoutly, then added,
"No fear for your exams, Boy, if you can cram like that. But I did not
know you were a cultivated archaeologist."

"Nor am I," said the Boy with a shiver. "I hate architecture, and I don't
want to know about it, but I can't help picking it up. It is horrid to
remember that that arch yonder was built in the time of William the
Conqueror. I never look at it without feeling the oppression of the ages
come upon me. And when I get into this bigoted Close and think of the
heathenish way the people live in it, shutting themselves in from the rest
of the citizens with unchristian ideas of their own superiority, I am
confirmed in my unbelief. I feel if there were any truth in that religion,
those who profess it would have begun to practise its precepts by this
time; they would not be content to teach it for ever without trying it
themselves. And oh!"--shaking his fist at the cathedral--"I loathe the
deeds of darkness that are done there in the name of the Lord."

"What unhappy experience are you alluding to, Boy?" said the Tenor,
concerned.

"I was thinking of Edith--poor Edith Beale," the Boy replied, "But don't
ask me to tell you that story if you have not heard it. It makes my blood
boil with indignation."

"I have heard it," the Tenor answered sadly. "But, Boy, dear, every honest
man deplores such circumstances as much as you do."

"Then why do they occur?" the Boy asked hotly. "If the honest men were in
earnest, such blackguardism would not go unpunished. But don't let us talk
about it."

They went through the arm of the Close in the centre of which the lime
trees grew round a grassy space enclosed from the road by a light iron
railing. "This is grateful!" the Boy exclaimed, as they passed under the
old trees, lingering a while to listen to the rustle and murmur of the
leaves. Then they emerged once more into the moonlight, and took their way
down the little lane that led to the water-gate. Here they found an
elegant cockle-shell of a boat tied up, "a most ladylike craft," said the
Tenor.

"I'll steer," said the Boy, fixing the rudder, and then arranging the
cushions for himself, while the Tenor meekly took the oars.

With one strong stroke he brought the boat into mid-stream, then headed
her down the river toward the sea, and settled to his oars with a long
steady pull that roused the admiration of the Boy.

"You row like a 'Varsity man," he said.

"So I should," was the laconic rejoinder.

"_Are_ you a 'Varsity man?"

"I am."

"Oxford, then, I'll bet. And did you take your degree?"

The Tenor nodded.

"Well, you _are_ a queer chap!" said the Boy. "Were you expelled?"
The Tenor shook his head. "Did you do _anything_ disgraceful?" The
Tenor again made a sign of negation. "Then why on earth did you come and
bury yourself alive in Morningquest?"

"That I might have the pleasure of rowing you down the river by moonlight,
apparently," the Tenor answered, but without a smile.

"I'd give my ears to know!" the Boy ejaculated.

"I quite believe you would!" said the Tenor, pausing to speak; after which
he bent to his oars with a will, and the banks became a moving panorama to
their vision as they passed. Now they swept under a light iron bridge that
crossed the river with one bold span, and connected a busy thoroughfare of
the city with a pleasant shady suburb beyond. Then they wound round a
curve, and on their left was a broad towing-path, and beautiful old trees,
and a high paling made of sleepers shutting out the view; while on the
right, those crowded dwellings of the poor which add so much to a picture,
especially by moonlight, and so little to the loveliness of life, rose
from the water's edge and straggled up the rising ground, tumbling over
each other in every sort of picturesque irregularity. Ahead of them, the
river was landlocked by a wooded hill; and, also facing them, was an old
round tower on the towing-path, above which the round moon shown in an
empty indigo sky.

"Stop a minute, Israfil," said the Boy, "and turn your head, Who does it
make you think of?"

"Old Chrome," the Tenor answered, looking over his shoulder. "It is
perfect."

The river was quite narrow here, and on either side were long lines of
pleasure-boats moored to the bank, and an occasional flat tied-up for the
night, with its big brown sails, looking like webbed wings, hoisted to
dry. Further on they met a barge coming up the river, and the Boy wished
the man who was steering a polite good-night, and hoped he'd have a
pleasant passage and no bad weather; to which piece of facetiousness the
bargee replied good-humouredly, having mistaken the boy's contralto for a
woman's voice, an error of judgment at which the latter affected to rage,
much to the amusement of the Tenor.

But they were out of the city by this time. On their right was a
gentleman's park, well-wooded, and sloping up from the river to a gentle
eminence crowned by a crest of trees; on their left, across some fields,
the villas of that pleasant suburb before mentioned studded the rising
ground, appearing also among old trees, beneath which they and their quiet
gardens nestled peacefully. There were trees everywhere--beech and
laburnum and larch, horsechestnut and lime and poplar, as far as the eye
could reach, and the latter, standing straight up in the barer spots, were
a notable feature in the landscape, as were also the alder-cars and
occasional osier beds dotted about in marshy places.

The pleasant suburb straggled out to an ancient village, past which a
reach of the river wound, but the Boy kept the boat to the main stream.
They could see the village street, however, with the quaint church on the
level; and light warm airs brought them odours of roses and mignonette
from the gardens. It had been a long pull for a hot night, and the Tenor
shipped his oars here, and threw himself back in the bow to rest. He lay
looking up at the sky while they drifted back little by little with the
tide. The balmy air, the lop-lop of the water against the boat, the rock
and sway and sense of dreamy movement, and ever and anon the nightingales,
made a time of soft excitement, such as the Boy loved.

"O Israfil!" he burst out; "isn't it delicious just to be alive?"

He was lolling in the stern with his hat off, his legs stretched, out
before him, and a tiller rope in each hand, the image of indolent ease.
"Yes, this is perfect," he added; "it is paradise."

"Not for you, I should think," said the Tenor, "without an Eve."

"Now, there you mistake me," the Boy replied. "If there be one thing I
deprecate more than another it is the impertinent intrusion of _sex_
into everything."

"You surprise me," the Tenor answered idly. "When I first had the pleasure
of meeting you, love was a favourite topic of yours."

"Ah! at that time, yes," said the Boy. "You see I was merely pandering
then to what I supposed to be your taste, in order to ingratiate myself
with you; but you may have noticed that since I knew you better I have
allowed the subject to drop--except, of course, when I wanted to draw
you."

"That is true," said the Tenor upon reflection. "And yet you are the most
sensuous little brute I know."

"Sensuous, yes; not sensual," said the Boy. "I take my pleasures daintily,
and this scene satisfies me heart and soul; balmy air; moonlight with its
myriad associations; a murmurous multitude of sounds like sighs, all
soothing; the silent drift and gentle rocking of the boat; and the calm
human fellowship, the brotherly love undisturbed by a single violent
emotion, which is the perfection of social intercourse to me. I say the
scene is hallowed, and I'll have no sex in my paradise." The last words
were uttered irritably, and he sat up as he spoke, thrust his hands into
his pockets, and frowned at the silvery surface of the river. "Love!" he
ejaculated. "Rot! It is not love they mean. But don't let us desecrate a
night like this with any idea that lowers us to the level of a beastly
French novel reeking with sensuality."

"Amen, with all my heart," said the Tenor lazily. "But don't introduce the
disturbing element of violence either, dear Boy. Your sentiments may be
refined, but the same cannot be said for the expressions in which you
clothe them. In fact, to describe the latter, I don't think _coarse_
would be too strong a word."

"No, not coarse," said the Boy, with his uncanny grin. "Vigorous, you
mean, dear. But now shut up. I want to think."

"You don't. You want to feel," said the Tenor.

The Boy threw his cap at him.

Then they resettled themselves, lolling luxuriously, the one in the bows,
the other in the stern; and the Tenor's soul was uplifted, as was the case
with him in every pause of life, to the heaven of heavens which only could
contain it; while the Boy's roamed away to realms of poesy where it
revelled amid blossoming rhymes, or rested satisfied on full blown verses,
some of which he presently began to chant to himself monotonously.

"I like that," he broke off at last. "There is quite an idea in it--well
worked out too; don't you think so?"

"What is the thing?" the Tenor asked. "Who wrote it?"

"I wrote it myself," said the Boy.

The Tenor roused himself, and got out the oars, but sat resting on them
with a far-away look in his dreamy eyes. He was bareheaded, and the moon
played on his yellow hair, making it shine; a detail which did not escape
the Boy, whose pleasure in the Tenor's beauty never tired.

"I didn't know you were a poet as well as a musician," the latter said at
last.

"Ah! you have much to learn," the Boy answered complacently, then
added--"I am extremely versatile."

"Jack of all trades," said the Tenor.

"Now, don't be coarse," said the Boy.

"Well, I hope that is not the best specimen of your powers in that line,"
the Tenor drily pursued.

"By no means," was the candid rejoinder; "but the most appropriate, seeing
that I just made it for the occasion, which is not a great occasion, don't
you know."

"I've heard something very like it before," said the Tenor,

"Yes," said the Boy, with a gratified smile, "'that is the beauty of it.
There is no new-fangled nonsense about me. My verses always tremble with
agreeable reminiscences. They set the sensitive sympathetic chords of
memory vibrating pleasurably. You can hardly read anything I write without
being reminded of some one or other of your best friends in the language.
I have written some verses which I can assure you were a triumph of this
art." He made an artistic pause here, shook his head, and then ejaculated
solemnly: "But, Lord! how I did rage when the fact was first pointed out
to me!"

The Tenor got the boat round, and, with an occasional dip of the oars to
keep it in mid-stream, allowed it to drift slowly back toward
Morningquest.

"I am afraid you are precocious, Boy," he said at last. "Don't be so if
you can help it. The thing is detestable."

"I really think I shall be obliged to avoid you, Israfil," the Boy
rejoined. "If I let you be intimate, you will be giving me good advice.
Look there!"

The Tenor turned hastily. But there was nothing wrong. It was only that
they had reached a point from which they could obtain a view that pleased
the Boy's excitable fancy; a bend of the river, a glimpse of upland
meadows, woods with the cathedral spire above them, and the square outline
of the castle overhanging the city from its dominant site on the hill, and
seeming to guard it as it slept.

The Tenor looked a little, then dipped his oars and rowed a stroke or two.
The Boy's mood had changed. He was keenly susceptible to the refining
influences of beautiful scenes. His countenance cleared and softened as he
gazed, and the Tenor knew that he would jeer no more that night.

Presently they heard the city clocks striking the hour. Both listened,
waiting for the chime. The Tenor rested on his oars, and after it had
sounded, muffled by distance, but quite distinct, he still sat so, gazing
thoughtfully into the water.

"Boy, shall I tell you something?" he said at last.

The Boy gravely responded with a nod.

"It was not far from where we are now," the Tenor continued, "that I first
heard the chime--oh, ever so many years ago!" and he brushed his hand back
over his hair.

"You were a boy then?"

"Yes, a lad like you--perhaps younger: I had been working in a colliery.
The work was too hard for me, and I was coming up the Morne on a barge, to
try and get something lighter to do in one of the towns. We came up very
slowly, and it was a hot day, and I idled about for hours, looking at the
water over the side, and at the banks of the river as we passed, but
without thinking of anything. What I saw made me feel. I was conscious of
various sensations--pleasure, wonder, amusement, and, above all, of a
dreamful ease; but I could not translate sensations into words at that
time; they suggested no ideas. There had been nothing in my life so far to
rouse my mental faculties, and I was conscious without being intelligent,
as I suppose the beasts of the field are. I must have been happy then, but
I did not know it. As we approached Morningquest I heard the chime. It was
very faint at first, for we were still a long way off; but the next time
it sounded we were nearer; and the next it was quite distinct. And it
seemed to me to mean something, so I asked the old bargee who was
steering, and he told me. I could neither read nor write at that time, and
I had never heard of Christ, but I loved music, and the idea of a great
beneficent being who slumbered not nor slept, but watched over us all
forever, took possession of my imagination, and I caught up the notes and
words and sang them with all my heart. And when we got to the outskirts of
the city, a gentleman who had been sitting on the towing-path, sketching
the old houses on the opposite side of the river, heard me, and hailed the
barge, and came on board. 'Which is your sweet singer?' he asked, and the
old fellow who was steering nodded toward me, and answered: 'The lad
there.' And the gentleman said if I would go away with him he would have
me taught music and make a great singer of me."

"And you went?"

"Yes," said the Tenor, with his habitual gesture.

"The gentleman was a bachelor," he resumed, "with few near relations. He
was very rich, very liberal, and passionately fond of art in all its
branches. That was why he took me at first, but by and by he began to like
me for myself. He had me educated as his own son might have been, and I
loved him as if he had been my father. Oh, Boy, he was a good man! You
never would have scoffed at religion and truth had you been brought up by
him. I rested on his affection as securely as you rely on the obligation
of your nearest of kin. I knew that, even if I had lost my voice or
otherwise disappointed him, it would have made no difference. Once my
friend he would always have been my friend. But I did not lose my voice,
nor did I otherwise disappoint him, I trust." The Tenor paused a moment.
"He was always sure that I was gentle by birth," he resumed, "and all my
tutors said I must have come of an educated race because I was so
teachable. Everything in the new life came to me naturally. I never had
any trouble. My friend tried hard to find my parents, but all that was
known of me in the place I came from was that a collier, who lived alone
in a little cottage, went home late one night and found me asleep on his
bed. They thought I was only a few days old then, and had kept my clothes,
which were such as a gentleman's child would have worn, but there was no
mark on any of them, nor any clue by which I could be identified, except
the name, David Julian Vanetemple, scrawled on a scrap of paper in a
woman's hand, an educated hand. The collier brought me up somehow, though
Heaven alone knows how, considering my age and his own occupation. Do you
know, Boy, one of the most weary things in life is the sense of an
obligation you can never repay. If I could only have done something to
prove my gratitude to my first foster father! But there! I must not think
of it. It is better to hope that all he did for me was a pleasure to
himself at the time, though there must have been much more trouble than
pleasure at first. But he was very kind, and I was very happy with him."
Here the Tenor, paused again for a while, and then resumed. "When I was
old enough he took me down to the pit occasionally, but he would not let
me work until I was much past the age at which the other boys began. He
said I was not one of them; my build was different, and I was quite unfit
for such rough labour; and so it proved, but I persevered as long as he
lived. It was not very long, however, for he was killed one day by an
explosion of gas down in the mine while trying to rescue some other poor
fellows who had been blocked up in a gallery for days by a fall. His dog
was killed at the same time. He liked to have his family with him, he
said, and we were generally both beside him when he was at work. But he
sent me off on an impossible errand to a neighbouring town that day. I did
not suspect it at the time, but I know now that it was to keep me out of
harm's way. And so I was left quite alone in the world, and I thought the
place where I had had a friend was more desolate than strange places with
which I had no such tender associations would be; and so I wandered away,
and wandered about until I was found by my next friend on the barge, and
the new life began for me."

"Then he never found out who you were?" the Boy exclaimed.

"No, never."

"And why did you leave him?"

The Tenor shipped his oars. "He had a place in Scotland to which we went
every autumn for shooting," he began to answer indirectly, and then
stopped.

The Boy was leaning forward, with his eyes riveted on the Tenor's face;
his delicate features were pale and drawn with excitement and interest;
his lips were parted; he scarcely seemed to breathe. There was a long
pause. The moonlight still streamed down upon them. The water lapped
against the sides of the boat, and sparkled and rippled all around them,
its murmurs mingling with the rustle of leaves, the sighing of sleeping
cattle, the manifold "inarticulate voices of the night," above which a
nightingale in a copse hard by sang out at intervals divinely.

"My friend was not conventional in anything," the Tenor began again at
last. "When he went out shooting, for instance, he liked to find his own
game as he would have had to do in the wilds. All the sport of the thing
lay in that, he said; it was just the difference between nature and
artifice. We were therefore in the habit of going out alone--that is to
say, with a keeper or two and the dogs, but never with a party." Here
again the Tenor paused, and all the minor murmurs of the water and from
the land sounded aggressively, with that sort of sound which fills the
ears but seems nevertheless to emphasize the silence and solitude at
night.

The Boy moved restlessly once or twice, making the little boat rock, and
the Tenor, yielding to the eager expectancy he saw in his eyes, resumed
his story.

"Toward the end of the season of which I have been speaking," he said, "we
had arranged an expedition for one particular morning; but just as we were
about to start my friend got a telegram from a man he knew, begging him as
a favour to be at home that day to receive a yachting party who were
anxious to come up and see the place, and had only a few hours to do it
in. She is like a fish in water; she can handle reins and racket; From head
to toe and finger-tips she's thoroughly alive; When she goes
promenading in a most distracting jacket, The rustle round her
feet suggests how laundresses may thrive.

She can dare the wind and sunshine in the most bravado manner, And after
hours of sailing she has merely cheeks of rose; Old Sol himself seems
smitten, and at most will only tan her, Though to everybody else he gives
a danger-signal nose.

She's a trifle sentimental, and she's fond of admiration, And she sometimes
flirts a little in the season's giddy whirl; But win her if you can, sir,
she may prove your life's salvation, For an angel masquerading oft
is she, the Summer Girl.

THE GHOST

Through the open door of dreamland Came a ghost of long ago, long ago.

When I wakened, all unheeding Was the phantom to my pleading; For he would
not turn and go, But beside me all the day, In my work and in my play,
Trod this ghost of long ago, long ago.

Not a vague and pallid phantom Was this ghost that came to me, followed
me:
Though he rose from regions haunted, Though he came unbid, unwanted,
He was very fair to see.

Like the radiant sun in space Was the halo round the face Of that
ghost that came to me, followed me.

And he wore no shroud or cere-cloth As he wandered at my side, close
beside:
He was clothed in royal splendour And his eyes were deep and tender,
While he walked in stately pride; And he seemed like some great
king, Not afraid of anything, As he wandered at my side, close
beside.

Then I turned to him commanding That he go the way he came, whence he
came.

But he answered me in sorrow, "May the Past not seek to borrow From the
Present without blame-- Just one memory from its store, Ere it goes to
come no more, Back the pathway that it came, whence it came?"
Then ashamed of my full coffers, I gave forth from Memory's hold (wondrous
hold!) All I owed of tax and duty For remembered hours of beauty, Which I
paid in thoughts of gold; Yet my present seemed to be Richer still for
all the fee I gave forth from Memory's hold (wondrous hold!).

THE SIGNBOARD

I will paint you a sign, rumseller, And hang it above your door; A
truer and better signboard Than ever you had before.

I will paint with the skill of a master, And many shall pause to see This
wonderful piece of painting, So like the reality.

I will paint yourself, rumseller, As you wait for that fair young
boy, Just in the morning of manhood, A mother's pride and joy.

He has no thought of stopping, But you greet him with a smile, And you
seem so blithe and friendly, That he pauses to chat awhile.

I will paint you again, rumseller, I will paint you as you stand,
With a foaming glass of liquor Extended in your hand.
He wavers, but you urge him-- Drink, pledge me just this one!
And he takes the glass and drains it, And the hellish work is done.

And next I will paint a drunkard-- Only a year has flown, But into
that loathsome creature The fair young boy has grown.

The work was sure and rapid.
I will paint him as he lies In a torpid, drunken slumber, Under the
wintry skies.
I will paint the form of the mother As she kneels at her darling's
side, Her beautiful boy that was dearer Than all the world beside.
I will paint the shape of a coffin, Labelled with one word--"Lost"
I will paint all this, rumseller, And will paint it free of cost.the Boy ventured to ask.

"Afterward," the Tenor repeated slowly. "Afterward--for some months--I
wandered about. They were all very kind. They wanted me to stay with them
--they wanted to take me abroad--they would have done anything to help and
comfort me. But all I cared for was to be alone. At first there was a
blank--the faces about me had no meaning for me--the people when they
spoke could scarcely make me understand. I was mad in a way, but not mad
enough to be insensible to sorrow. I felt the fearful calamity that had
fallen upon me, but nothing else. I told myself every hour of the day that
he was dead--dead; cruelly cut off in the midst of his happy life by me
whom he loved--I could not have suffered more had I been guilty," the
Tenor broke off. "This lasted--I hardly know how long; but eventually I
began to fancy that he saw my agony of grief, and that it was a torment to
him not to be able to come and comfort me. Then one day--I was in Cornwall
at the time--sitting on the sea shore--and all at once--it was the
strangest thing in life--I heard the chime! I had not been thinking of it.
I doubt if I had thought of it a dozen times since I heard it first. But
it sounded for me then:

[Illustration: (musical notation); lyrics: He, watch-ing o-ver Is--ra--el,
slumbers not, nor sleeps.]

I heard it quite distinctly, and I got up and looked about me. It was the
first thing outside myself that had arrested my attention since I had seen
him drop on the moor. I went back to the inn I was staying at, and asked
about it: but I could scarcely make them understand what I meant, and
there was certainly no such chime in that neighbourhood. Then I felt it
was a message sent specially to me, and I made my man pack up my things,
and then I dismissed him, and started at once for Morningquest alone. It
was a long journey, and although I travelled with all possible speed, I
did not arrive until nearly forty-eight hours later. It was close on
midnight then, and the first thing I heard, when I found myself alone in
my room at the hotel, was the chime itself. Have you ever noticed--or is
it only my fancy?--that it seems to strike louder at midnight, and with
greater intensity of expression, as we ourselves strike final chords? It
sounded so to me then, and suggested something--I can't tell what, I can't
define it; but something that changed the current of my thoughts, and made
me feel I had done right to come. And from that moment my grief was less
self-centred, and the blessed power to feel for others began to return to
me. Almost immediately after my arrival, I heard of the tragedy in the
cathedral, the suicide of the tenor, and the trouble the dean and chapter
were having to find a substitute; and when I had seen the quiet shady
Close, and the beautiful old cathedral, and my little house with its
high-walled garden at the back, standing, as it were, on holy ground, I
longed to take up my abode there, where no one would know my story but
those to whom the secret would be sacred, and no one would intrude upon my
grief. So I applied for the tenor's place, and I knew as soon as I had
taken the step that it was a wise one. I thought, if any thing could
restore the balance of my mind, it would be the regular employment, the
quiet monotony, the something to do that I must do, the duty and
obligation, which were just sufficient without being any tax on my powers
to take me out of myself. And the being able to shut myself up from the
world in the Close, as I said before, was another inducement, though by
far the greatest were the daily services in the cathedral; while taking
part in them I always feel that I am nearer him. When I applied for the
place, and the dean heard who I was--of course, he knew the story; the
whole world knew it at that time--and heard how I yearned for a life of
devotion, he sympathized with me entirely, gladly acceded to my request,
and agreed to keep my secret. He has told me since that he always hoped
and believed the quiet regular life would restore me, and when it had he
intended to urge me to go away, and make the most of my powers. Dear, kind
old man! he has indeed been a good friend to me, and he is a good man
himself, if ever there were one. But I seem to have known none but good
men," the Tenor concluded thoughtfully.

"But your money, Israfil," the Boy said impatiently; "what did you do with
that?"

The question provoked the ghost of a smile. "Oh, Boy! that is so like
you!" the Tenor answered. "But since you wish to know I will tell you. My
income has all been disposed of for some years to come. It was a great
deal more than I should have required in any case, and a lay clerk with
such means would have been an anomaly not to be tolerated. But he meant
that I should enjoy it, and so I have. I have held it as a sacred trust
left to me for the benefit of those who are worse off than myself. I keep
the principal in my own hands, but I dispose of the interest. It does not
go very far, alas! in my profession, where want is the rule, but it
enables me to do something, and that, till I knew you. Boy, was my
greatest pleasure in life. I have earned my own living almost ever since I
came to Morningquest, and being obliged to do so has been a very good
thing for me."

"And all these pensioners--or whatever you like to call them--of yours, do
they know?"

"As a rule my lawyers manage the business delicately," the Tenor answered,
smiling. He dipped his oars as he spoke, and began to row back with a
will.

The Boy, shivering as if with cold, gathered up the tiller lines and
steered mechanically. They were both subdued, and scarcely spoke till the
boat touched the landing place at the water-gate, and then the Boy begged
the Tenor to get out, saying that he must row himself home.

The Tenor jumped ashore, and then, with a long grip of each other's hands,
and a long look into each other's eyes, they parted in silence.

The moon had set by this time, and the summer dawn was near.


CHAPTER XIV.


The next night the Boy appeared again in his white boating suit, with his
sandy hair tumbled more than usual His restless eyes sparkled and glanced,
and there was a glow beneath his clear skin which answered in his to a
heightened colour in other complexions. He was evidently excited about
something, and the Tenor thought he had never seen him look so well. What
his mood was did not become immediately apparent. The Tenor had learnt
that the sparkle in his eyes either meant some mischievous design, or a
strong desire to "make music." But this evening he was long in coming to
the point. Abdullah murmured to himself as David passed--a murmur of
admiration and astonishment. He had heard of the disfavour in which the
Inglesi was; but, as he looked at David's face with its quiet smile, the
influence which he felt in the desert long ago came over him again.

"By Allah," he said aloud abstractedly, "it is a face that will not hide
when the khamsin blows! Who shall gainsay it?

If he were not an infidel he would be a Mahdi."
To this his Bedouin friend replied: "As the depths of the pool at Ghebel
Farik, so are his eyes. You shall dip deep and you shall not find the
bottom. Bismillah, I would fight Kaid's Nubians, but not this infidel
pasha!"
Never had David appeared to such advantage. The victory over himself the
night before, the message of hope that had reached him at the monastery
in the desert, the coming of Lacey, had given him a certain quiet masterfulness
not reassuring to his foes.

As he entered the chamber but now, there flashed into his mind the
scene six years ago when, an absolute stranger, he had stepped into
this Eastern salon, and had heard his name called out to the great
throng:
"Claridge efendi!"
He addressed no one, but he bowed to the group of foreign consuls-
general, looking them steadily in the eyes. He knew their devices
and what had been going on of late, he was aware that his fall would
mean a blow to British prestige, and the calmness of his gaze expressed
a fortitude which had a disconcerting effect upon the group. The British
Consul-General stood near by.

David advanced to him, and, as he did so, the few who surrounded the
Consul-General fell back. David held out his hand. Somewhat abashed and
ill at ease, the Consul-General took it.

"Have you good news from Downing Street?" asked David quietly.

The Consul-General hesitated for an instant, and then said: "There is
no help to be had for you or for what you are doing in that quarter." He
lowered his voice. "I fear Lord Eglington does not favour you; and he
controls the Foreign Minister.

I am very sorry.

I have done my best, but my colleagues, the other consuls, are busy--with
Lord Eglington."
David turned his head away for an instant. Strange how that name sent a
thrill through him, stirred his blood! He did not answer the Consul-
General, and the latter continued:

"Is there any hope? Is the breach with Kaid complete?"
David smiled gravely. "We shall see presently.

I have made no change in my plans on the basis of a breach."
At that moment he caught sight of Nahoum some distance away and moved
towards him. Out of the corner of his eye Nahoum saw David coming,
and edged away towards that point where Kaid would enter, and where the
crowd was greater. As he did so Kaid appeared. A thrill went through
the chamber.

Contrary to his custom, he was dressed in the old native military dress of
Mehemet Ali. At his side was a jewelled scimitar, and in his turban flashed
a great diamond.

In his hand he carried a snuff- box, covered with brilliants, and on his
breast were glittering orders.

The eyes of the reactionaries flashed with sinister pleasure when
they saw Kaid.

  This outward display of Orientalism could only be a
  reflex of the mind. It was the outer symbol of Kaid's
  return to the spirit of the old days, before the
  influence of the Inglesi came upon him. Every
  corrupt and intriguing mind had a palpitation of excitement.
  
  In Nahoum the sight of Kaid produced mixed feelings.
  If, indeed, this display meant reaction
  towards an entourage purely Arab, Egyptian, and Muslim,
  then it was no good omen for his Christian self.
  He drew near, and placed himself where Kaid could see
  him.

  Kaid's manner was cheerful, but his face showed the effect
  of suffering, physical and mental.
  Presently there entered behind him Sharif Bey, whose
  appearance was the signal for a fresh
  demonstration. Now, indeed, there could be no doubt
  as to Kaid's reaction. Yet if Sharif had
  seen Mizraim's face evilly gloating near by he
  would have been less confident.
  
  David was standing where Kaid must see him, but the
  Effendina gave no sign of recognition. This was
  so significant that the enemies of David rejoiced anew.

The day of the Inglesi was over. Again and again did Kaid's eye
wander over David's head.

David remained calm and watchful, neither avoiding nor yet seeking the
circle in which Kaid moved. The spirit with which he had entered the room,
however, remained with him, even when he saw Kaid summon to him some of
the most fanatical members of the court circle, and engage them
in talk for a moment.

But as this attention grew more marked, a cloud slowly gathered in the far
skies of his mind.

There was one person in the great assembly, however, who seemed to
be unduly confident.

It was an ample, perspiring person in evening dress, who now and again
mopped a prematurely bald head, and who said to himself, as Kaid talked
to the reactionaries:

"Say, Kald's overdoing it.

He's putting potted chicken on the butter.

But it's working all right-r-i-g-h-t.

It's worth the backsheesh!"

At this moment Kaid fastened David with his look, and spoke in a tone so
loud that people standing at some distance were startled.

"Claridge Pasha!"
In the hush that followed David stepped forward. "May the bounty of the
years be thine, Saadat," Kaid said in a tone none could misunderstand.

"May no tree in thy orchard wither, Effendina," answered David in a
firm voice.

Kaid beckoned him near, and again he spoke loudly: "I have proved thee, and
found thee as gold tried seven times by the fire, Saadat. In the treasury
of my heart shall I store thee up.

Thou art going to the Soudan to finish the work Mehemet Ali began. I commend
thee to Allah, and will bid thee farewell at sunrise--I and all who love
Egypt."
There was a sinister smile on his lips, as his eyes wandered over the
faces of the foreign consuls-general. The look he turned on the intriguers
of the Palace was repellent; he reserved for Sharif a moody, threatening
glance, and the desperate hakim shrank back confounded from it.

His first impulse was to flee from the Palace and from Cairo; but he
bethought himself of the assault to be made on Kaid by the tent-maker,
as he passed to the mosque a few hours later, and he determined to
await the issue of that event.

Exchanging glances with confederates, he disappeared, as Kaid laid a
hand on David's arm and drew him aside.

After viewing the great throng cynically for a moment Kaid said:
"To- morrow thou goest.

A month hence the hakim's knife will find the thing that eats away
my life.

It may be they will destroy it and save me; if not, we shall meet no more."

David looked into his eyes.

"Not in a month shall thy work be completed, Effendina.

Thou shalt live. God and thy strong will shall make it so."
A light stole over the superstitious face. "No device or hatred, or plot,
has prevailed against thee," Kaid said eagerly. "Thou hast defeated
all--even when I turned against thee in the black blood of despair. Thou
hast conquered me even as thou didst Harrik."
"Thou dost live," returned David drily. "Thou dost live for Egypt's sake,
even as Harrik died for Egypt's sake, and as others shall die."
"Death hath tracked thee down how often! Yet with a wave of the hand
thou hast blinded him, and his blow falls on the air. Thou art beset
by a thousand dangers, yet thou comest safe through all. Thou art an
honest man. For that I besought thee to stay with me. Never didst
thou lie to me. Good luck hath followed thee. Kismet! Stay with me, and
it may be I shall be safe also. This thought came to me in the
night, and in the morning was my reward, for Lacey effendi came to me and
said, even as I say now, that thou wilt bring me good luck; and even in
that hour, by the mercy of God, a loan much needed was negotiated.
Allah be praised!"
A glint of humour shot into David's eyes. Lacey--a loan--he read it all!
Lacey had eased the Prince Pasha's immediate and pressing financial
needs--and, "Allah be praised!" Poor human nature--backsheesh to a Prince
regnant!

"Effendina," he said presently, "thou didst speak of Harrik. One there was
who saved thee then--" "Zaida!" A change passed over Kaid's face.
"Speak! Thou hast news of her? She is gone?" Briefly David told him how Zaida
was found upon her sister's grave. Kaid's face was turned away as
he listened.

"She spoke no word of me?" Kaid said at last. "To whom should she speak?"
David asked gently. "But the amulet thou gavest her, set with one red jewel,
it was clasped in her hand in death."
Suddenly Kaid's anger blazed. "Now shall Achmet die," he burst out.
"His hands and feet shall be burnt off, and he shall be thrown to the
vultures."

"The Place of the Lepers is sacred even from thee, Effendina,"
answered David gravely.

  "Yet Achmet shall die even as Harrik died.

He shall die for Egypt and for thee, Effendina."
Swiftly he drew the picture of Achmet at the monastery in the desert.

"I have done the unlawful thing, Effendina," he said at last, "but thou wilt
make it lawful. He hath died a thousand deaths--all save one."
"Be it so," answered Kaid gloomily, after a moment; then his face lighted
with cynical pleasure as he scanned once more the faces of the crowd before
him. At last his eyes fastened on Nahoum. He turned to David.

"Thou dost still desire Nahoum in his office?" he asked keenly.

A troubled look came into David's eyes, then it cleared away, and
he said firmly: "For six years we have worked together, Effendina.

I am surety for his loyalty to thee."
"And his loyalty to thee?"
A pained look crossed over David's face again, but he said with a will
that fought all suspicion down: "The years bear witness."
Kaid shrugged his shoulders slightly. "The years have perjured themselves
ere this. Yet, as thou sayest, Nahoum is a Christian," he added, with irony
scarcely veiled.

Now he moved forward with David towards the waiting court. David searched
the groups of faces for Nahoum in vain. There were things to be said to
Nahoum before he left on the morrow, last suggestions to be given. Nahoum
could not be seen.

Nahoum was gone, as were also Sharif and his confederates, and in the
lofty Mosque of Mahmoud soft lights were hovering, while the Sheikh-el-
Islam waited with Koran and scimitar for the ruler of Egypt to pray to God
and salute the Lord Mahomet.

At the great gateway in the Street of the Tent Makers Kaid paused on his
way to the Mosque Mahmoud. The Gate was studded with thousands of nails,
which fastened to its massive timbers relics of the faithful, bits
of silk and cloth, and hair and leather; and here from time immemorial a
holy man had sat and prayed. At the gateway Kaid salaamed humbly, and spoke
to the holy man, who, as he passed, raised his voice shrilly in an
appeal to Allah, commending Kaid to mercy and everlasting favour. On every
side eyes burned with religious zeal, and excited faces were turned towards
the Effendina.

At a certain point there were little groups of men with faces more set than
excited. They had a look of suppressed expectancy. Kald neared them, passed
them, and, as he did so, they looked at each other in consternation.
They were Sharif's confederates, fanatics carefully chosen. The attempt
on Kaid's life should have been made opposite the spot where they stood.
They craned their necks in effort to find the Christian tent-maker, but in
vain.

Suddenly they heard a cry, a loud voice calling.

It was Rahib the tent- maker. He was beside Kaid's stirrups, but no weapon
was in his hand; and his voice was calling blessings down on the
Effendina's head for having pardoned and saved from death his one
remaining son, the joy of his old age.

In all the world there was no prince like Kaid, said the tent- maker; none
so bountiful and merciful and beautiful in the eyes of men.
God grant him everlasting days, the beloved friend of his people,
just to all and greatly to be praised.

As the soldiers drove the old man away with kindly insistence--for Kaid
had thrown him a handful of gold--Mizraim, the Chief Eunuch, laughed
wickedly. As Nahoum had said, the greatest of all weapons was the
mocking finger.

He and Mizraim had had their way with the governor of the prisons,
and the murderer had gone in safety, while the father stayed to
bless Kaid.

Rahib the tent-maker had fooled the plotters. They were mad in
derision.

They did not know that Kaid was as innocent as themselves of having pardoned
the tent-maker's son.

Their moment had passed; they could not overtake it; the match had
spluttered and gone out at the fuel laid for the fire of fanaticism.

The morning of David's departure came. While yet it was dark he had
risen, and had made his last preparations. When he came into the open air
and mounted, it was not yet sunrise, and in that spectral early
light, which is all Egypt's own, Cairo looked like some dream-city
in a forgotten world.

The Mokattam Hills were like vast dun barriers guarding and shutting
in the ghostly place, and, high above all, the minarets of the huge mosque
upon the lofty rocks were impalpable fingers pointing an endless flight.
The very trees seemed so little real and substantial that they gave the
eye the impression that they might rise and float away. The Nile was
hung with mist, a trailing cloud unwound from the breast of the Nile-mother.
At last the sun touched the minarets of the splendid mosque with
shafts of light, and over at Ghizeh and Sakkarah the great pyramids,
lifting their heads from the wall of rolling blue mist below, took
the morning's crimson radiance with the dignity of four thousand
years.

On the decks of the little steamer which was to carry them south David,
Ebn Ezra, Lacey, and Mahommed waited. Presently Kaid came, accompanied by
his faithful Nubians, their armour glowing in the first warm light of the
rising sun, and crowds of people, who had suddenly emerged, ran shrilling
to the waterside behind him.

Kaid's pale face had all last night's friendliness, as he bade David
farewell with great honour, and commended him to the care of Allah;
and the swords of the Nubians clashed against their breasts and on
their shields in salaam.
But there was another farewell to make; and it was made as David's
foot touched the deck of the steamer. Once again David looked at
Nahoum as he had done six years ago, in the little room where they
had made their bond together. There was the same straight look in
Nahoum's eyes. Was he not to be trusted? Was it not his own duty
to trust? He clasped Nahoum's hand in farewell, and turned away.
But as he gave the signal to start, and the vessel began to move,
Nahoum came back. He leaned over the widening space and said in a
low tone, as David again drew near:
"There is still an account which should be settled, Saadat. It has
waited long; but God is with the patient. There is the account of
Foorgat Bey."
The light fled from David's eyes and his heart stopped beating for
a moment. When his eyes saw the shore again Nahoum was gone with
Kaid.

GLOSSARY 
Aiwa----Yes.
Allah hu Achbar----God is most Great.
Al'mah----Female professional singers, signifying "a learned female."
Ardab----A measure equivalent to five English bushels.
Backsheesh----Tip, douceur.
Balass----Earthen vessel for carrying
water.
Bdsha----Pasha.
Bersim----Clover.
Bismillah----In the name of God.
Bowdb----A doorkeeper.
Dahabieh----A Nile houseboat with large lateen sails.
Darabukkeh----A drum made of a skin stretched over an earthenware
funnel.
Dourha----Maize.

Effendina----Most noble.
El Azhar----The Arab University at Cairo.
Fedddn----A measure of land representing about an acre.
Fellah----The Egyptian peasant.
Ghiassa----Small boat.

Hakim----Doctor.
Hasheesh----Leaves of hemp.

Inshallah----God willing.
Kdnoon----A musical instrument like a dulcimer.
Kavass----An orderly.
Kemengeh----A cocoanut fiddle.
Khamsin----A hot wind of Egypt and the Soudan.She rose from behind a hill crested with fir trees, which appeared for a
moment as if photographed on her disc, and then, mounting rapidly, hung
suspended in a clear indigo sky above the quiet woods, the river and the
little boat, which was motionless now--an ideal moon in an ideal world
with ideal music to greet her. But the Boy dropped the violin on his knee
and forgot to play as he watched this beautiful transformation scene, and
the Tenor's song sank to a murmur while he also gazed and waited, dipping
his oars to keep the boat in mid-stream mechanically. Joy and sadness are
near akin in music; they are like pleasure and happiness, the one is the
surface of feeling, the other its depth; and there is solemnity in every
phase of absolute beauty which cannot fail to influence such natures as
the Tenor's and the Boy's. It was the Tenor, though, that felt this moment
most. His nature, if not deeper, was more devout than the Boy's; pleasure
with him was a veritable uplifting of the spirit in praise and
thankfulness; and all the peace and quietness about them, the marvellous
light on hill and wood and vale, and even the nearness of the unseen city,
which he felt without perceiving it, and from which there came to him that
sense of fellowship and of the sacredness of human life in which all the
best qualities of man are rooted; these together sanctified the time.
Although, for the matter of that, to such a nature all times and seasons
are sanctified. For if ever a man's soul was purified on earth, his was;
and if ever a man deserved to see heaven, he did. Humanly speaking there
was no stain on him; in thought, word, and deed he was immaculate and true
as a little child, This moment was therefore peculiarly his own, a moment
of deep happiness, which found expression, as all pleasurable emotion did
with him, in music. He lifted up his voice, that wonderful voice which had
no equal then upon earth, and sang as he had sung once before on that very
spot when the first vague idea of the omnipresent majesty of a God
possessed him, sang with all his heart, and it was the litany of the
Blessed Virgin, the one he had heard in France in days gone by, the one he
had been singing when first he met the Boy, which recurred to him now--why
or wherefore it would be hard to say. He had not thought of it since. But
perhaps the moon, which was shining again as it had shone that night on
the old market-place, had helped to recall it, or perhaps it satisfied him
with a sense of appropriateness. For it was not a dismal, monotonous
product of mercenary dryness to which the words were set, but the
characteristic music of devotion by which the spirit of prayer is made
audible when words fail, as they always do, to express it in all its force
and fervour. The Boy listened a while with parted lips. It was a new
experience for him, and he was deeply moved. Then his musical instinct
awoke, and presently he took up the strain, voice and violin, accompanying
the Tenor, who rowed on once more, while the river banks resounded with,
"Christe audi nos, Christe exaudi nos," and re-echoed "Miserere nobis."

At one point as they approached, a lady appeared suddenly, and stood with
her hands clasped to her breast, looking and listening. She was a tall and
graceful woman, wrapped in a long cloak and bareheaded, as if she had
stepped out from somewhere just for the moment. She evidently recognized
the singer; and the Boy would have recognized the beautiful face, strong
in its calm, sad serenity, and compassionate, had he looked that way; but
he did not look that way, and they swept on, the music growing fainter and
fainter in the distance, till at last the boat was out of sight. Yet even
then a few high notes continued to float back; but these in turn quivered
into silence, and all was still--only for a moment, though, for the clocks
had struck unheeded, and now the chime rang out through the sultry air,
voice-like, clear, and resonant:

[Illustration: (musical notation); lyrics: He, watch-ing o-ver Is--ra--el,
slumbers not, nor sleeps.]

The lady listened, looking up as if the message were for her, but sighed.

"It will come right, I know," she said as she turned away. "But, Lord, how
long?"


CHAPTER XV.


Air perfumed with flowers; music, motion, warmth, and stillness; moonlit
meadows, shadowy woods, the river, and the boat; it had been a time of
delight too late begun and too soon ended. But exaltation cannot last
beyond a certain time at that height, and then comes the inevitable
reaction. It came upon the Tenor and the Boy quite suddenly, and for no
apparent reason. It was the Boy who felt it first, and left off playing,
then the song ceased, and the Tenor rowed on diligently. They were near
the landing place by this time, but the Tenor did not know it. He had not
noticed the landmarks as they passed, and thought they had still some
distance to go.

"Here, Boy," he said, breaking a long silence. "Take the oars and row. I
am tired. And it is your turn now."

"Oh!" the Boy exclaimed derisively. "Just as if I would row and blister my
lovely white hands when you are here to row me!"

"I cannot tolerate such laziness," the Tenor protested. "It is sparing the
rod and spoiling the child. Here, take the oars or I'll throw you
overboard," and he made a gesture toward him.

The Boy jumped up laughing, and flourishing his violin as if he would hit
the Tenor on the head with it. "Don't touch me," he cried, "or I'll--"

"Take care, for God's sake!" the Tenor exclaimed.

But too late. His excitable companion, in the middle of cutting a
fantastic caper, reeled, lost his balance, plunged head foremost into the
water, and sank like a stone.

Without a moment's delay the Tenor dived in after him, the cockleshell of
a boat, half capsizing as he went over, took in water enough to sink her
to the gunwale, and the whole thing happened so quickly that a spectator
on the bank who had seen the boat and its occupants one moment might have
looked in vain the next for any trace of either.

The Tenor came to the surface alone. His dive in the uncertain light had
been unsuccessful, and now he had the strength of mind to wait--in what
agony of suspense Heaven only knows!--till the Boy should rise. It could
only have been a few seconds, but it was long enough for the Tenor to lay
another man's death at his own door, to realize the loss to himself the
Boy would be, and his position when he would have to take the dreadful
news to the family, only one member of which in all probability knew of
their intimacy. She knew--But, good Heaven! would she not blame him? Oh,
he had been to blame, to blame!--It was only a few seconds, yet it was
time enough for the unfortunate Tenor to live over again the awful moment
when he had seen his best friend drop dead, only there was a double pang,
for time and space were confounded, and it was as if both father and
brother--as they had been to him--had gone down at once, and both by his
hand.

In that brief interval of suffering his face had become rigid and set, a
stony mask with no visible sign of emotion upon it; and yet the man's
strength and power of endurance were evident in this, that he had the
courage to wait.

And presently the Boy rose to the surface within easy reach.

With an exclamation of relief the Tenor grasped him, and struck out for
the shore--afraid at first that the Boy, who apparently could not swim,
would cling about him in his fright and hamper his movements; and then
afraid because the Boy did not cling about him, but suffered himself to be
dragged through the water, inert, like a log, helpless, lifeless--no, not
lifeless, the Tenor argued with himself. He could not be lifeless, you
know. He had not been in the water long enough for that. The Tenor noticed
that he had not let go of his violin, and thought: "The ruling passion
strong in--no, not in death. How could a dead hand hold on like that? Boy,
dear Boy!" But the Boy made no response. The Tenor had struck out for the
nearest bank which, as luck would have it, brought him to the landing
place at the watergate. His perception seemed singularly quickened; every
sense was actively alive to what was passing; nothing escaped him; and he
rendered an account to himself of all that occurred, feeling it strange
the while that he should be able to do so at such a time. He noticed some
detail of the stonework in the arch as he swam toward it; he noticed the
poplars, some three or four of different heights, which stood up all stiff
and vimineous as seen from below, beside it; he remembered the Boy once
saying they looked like hairy caterpillars standing on their heads, and
smiled even now at the quaint conceit. When he reached the steps and
clutched the handrail, it was with a sensation of joy that nearly
paralyzed him. It was curious, though, what odd and trivial phrases rose
to his lips, what irrelevant thoughts passed through his mind.

"Mustn't holloa till we're out of the wood," he warned himself, as he drew
the Boy from the water with difficulty, and, getting him over his shoulder
so that he could hold him with one hand and steady himself on the steep
steps with the other began to stagger up. "I wonder what the Boy would say
if he could see me now!" was his involuntary thought as he did so.

The Boy was heavier than his slender figure would have led one to suppose,
or else the Tenor was not so strong as he thought himself; at all events
he swayed under his burden as he carried him through the silent Close, now
putting out his hand flat against a wall to steady himself, and now
staggering up to the gnarled trunk of one of the old lime trees, and
pausing to take breath while he mentally calculated the distance between
that and the next support at which he could stop to rest, noticing in the
brief interval the blackness of the shadows; noticing also a little shiver
of leaves above him caused by a gust of air, the first forerunner of a
breeze that was rapidly rising; noticed this last fact particularly,
partly because the wind chilled him in his thin wet flannels, and partly
because it marked the change and contrast between the warm and happy time
just over, the anxious present moment, and the dread of what might be yet
to come. The next support was the corner of the wall which surrounded the
dean's garden; creeping on by that till it ended, he made an unsteady dash
across the road for the wall of the cathedral, and then from that across
again, zigzag, to his own little gate, where, gathering his strength for
the last effort, he took the Boy, whom he apostrophised as a perfect Old
Man of the Sea, in both arms, as a mother does her child, and a moment
afterward laid him on the floor of the long low room where they had spent
so many happy hours together, and from whence he had gone out a short time
before all life and strength and youth and beauty: "Gone to his death!"
The Tenor felt the phrase in his mind, but stifled it with a "Thank God!"
as he laid him down.

He had been fatigued by the long row when the accident happened, and was
now almost exhausted by excitement, terror for the Boy, and this last
effort; but still his mind went on with abnormal clearness noting every
trifle, and continuing to force him, as it were, to render an account of
each to himself. He noticed the perfume of roses, the roses the Boy had
showered in upon him--so short a time before--and he found himself
measuring the shortness of the interval again as if it would have been
easier to bear the catastrophe had it not jostled a happier state of
things so closely. He found himself wondering what the Boy would say if he
knew he had brought him in by the front door instead of by the window; he
was sure he would have insisted on the mode of entrance he so much
preferred had he been conscious, and felt as if he had taken a disloyal
advantage of the Boy's helpless condition.

But while these trivial thoughts flashed through his brain he lost no
time, not even in lighting a lamp, though the room was dark. What there
was to be done must be done promptly, and with the same extraordinary
lucidity of mind he remembered every simple remedy there was at his
disposal. He ran upstairs, three steps at a time, for the blankets off his
own bed. He had made up the kitchen fire, as was his wont, that evening,
for the Boy to cook if it pleased him, and fortunately it was burning
brightly still. He warmed the blankets there, and then returning, stripped
the light flannel clothing from the Boy, loosened his fingers from the
violin which he still clutched convulsively, rolled him up in them, and
then, with an effort, lifted him on to the sofa, where he had sat and
jested only a little while ago--and again the involuntary reckoning of
time, to consider the contrast between the then and now, smote the Tenor
to the heart with a cruel pang.

"Boy, dear Boy!" he called to him. He was kneeling beside him, but could
only see a dim outline of his face in the obscurity of the room, and
perhaps it was the darkness that made him look so rigid. "Boy, dear Boy!"
he cried again, but the Boy made no sign. "O God, spare him!" the stricken
man implored. And then he clasped the lad in his arms and pressed his
cheek to his in a burst of grief and tenderness not to be controlled. He
held him so for a few seconds, and it seemed as if in that close embrace,
his whole being had expressed itself in love and prayer, as if he had
wrestled with death itself and conquered, for all at once he felt the
Boy's limbs quiver through their clumsy wrappings, and then he heard him
sigh. Oh, the relief of it! The sudden reaction made him feel sick and
faint. But the precious life was not yet safe. "There's many a slip"--so
his mind began in spite of an effort to control it. Restoratives--heat,
stimulants, friction. He pulled the stand of ferns and flowering plants
half round from the fireplace roughly, so that the pots fell up against
each other, or rolled on the floor; then he fetched the burning coals from
the kitchen, and heaped them on till the grate was full. The kettle had
been boiling on the hob, so he brought it in now hissing, with brandy to
make a drink. But he must have more light. Where are the matches? Nowhere,
of course. They never are when they're wanted. However, it didn't matter,
a piece of paper would do as well, and he twisted a piece up and stooped
among the scattered roses to light it at the fire, and then he lit the
lamp and turned to look at the Boy. All this had been done in a moment, as
it seemed, and his face was still bright with hope, and prepared to smile
encouragement. But--"God in heaven!" he cried; under his breath, as a man
does who is too shocked to speak out.

Had some strange metamorphosis been brought about by that sudden
immersion?

He pulled himself together with an effort, and walked to the other end of
the room, where he stood with his back to the sofa, and his hands upraised
to his head, trying to steady himself. Then he returned.

No, he had not been mistaken, he was not mad, he was not dreaming. It was
the Boy who had plunged into the water headforemost, but this---

"God in heaven!" he ejaculated again, under his breath, and then stood
gazing like one transfixed.

For this, with the handsome, strong young face upturned, the smooth white
throat, the dark brown braids pinned close to the head, all wet and
shining; this was not the Boy, but the Tenor's own lady, his ideal of
purity, his goddess of truth, his angel of pity, as, in his foolishly fond
way idealizing, he had been accustomed to consider her. It was Angelica
herself! Yet so complete had been the deception to his simple,
unsuspicious mind, so impossible to believe was the revelation, and so
used was he to associate some idea of the Boy with everything that
occurred, that now, with his first conscious mental effort, he began to
blame him as if her being there were due to some unpardonable piece of his
mischief.

"The little wretch," he began, "how dare he"--he stopped there, realizing
the absurdity of it, realizing that there was no Boy; and no lady for the
matter of that, at least none such as he had imagined. It had all been a
cruel fraud from beginning to end.

It was a terrible blow, but the high-minded, self-contained dignity of the
man was never more apparent than in the way he bore it. His face was
unnaturally pale and set, but there was no other sign of what he suffered,
and, the first shock over, he at once resumed his anxious efforts to
restore--the girl--whose consciousness had scarcely yet returned, although
she breathed and had moved. It was curious how the new knowledge already
affected his attitude toward her. In preparing the hot drink he put half
the quantity of brandy he would have used five minutes before for the Boy,
and when he had to raise her head to make her swallow it, he did so
reluctantly. It was only a change of idea really, the Boy was a girl, that
was all; but what a difference it made, and would have made even if there
had been no question of love and marriage in the matter! At any other time
the Tenor himself might have marvelled at the place apart we assign in our
estimation to one of two people of like powers, passions, impulses, and
purposes, simply because one of them is a woman.

The stimulant revived the girl, and presently she opened her eyes and met
his as he bent over her.

"You are better now, I hope," he said coldly, moving away from her.

"I am better," she answered, and again their eyes met. But there was yet
another moment of dazed semi-consciousness before she was able to attach
any meaning to the change she saw in his face; and then it flashed upon
her. What she had hoped, feared, expected, and prevented every time they
met had come to pass. He knew at last, and she could see at once what he
thought of her. She would never again meet the tolerant loving glance he
had had for the Boy, nor note the tender reverence of his face when her
own name was mentioned. His idol was shattered, the dream and hope of his
life was over, and from all that remained of them, herself as she really
was, he shrank as from the dishonoured fragment of some once loved and
holy thing--a thing which is doubly painful to contemplate in its ruin
because of the importunate memories that cling about it.

Realizing something of this, she uttered a smothered ejaculation, and
covered her face with a gesture of intolerable shame. There was always
that saving grace of womanliness about Angelica, that when there was no
excuse for her conduct, she had the honesty to be ashamed of herself; in
consequence of which she was one of those who never erred in the same way
twice.

The Tenor turned to the fire, and then noticing her wet things scattered
about he gathered them up: "I will take them and dry them," he said, and
gladly made his escape. What he thought in the interval was: "I must marry
her now, I suppose,"--and he could not help smiling ironically at this new
way of putting it, nor wondering a little at the possibility of such a
sudden change of feeling as that which had all at once transformed the
dearest wish of his life into a distasteful, if not altogether repugnant,
duty.

When the things were dry he took them to her.

"I will leave you to put them on." he said, "Will you kindly call me when
you are ready?" And then he closed the window that looked out on the road,
drew down the blind, and once more left her.

No reproach could have chilled and frightened her as this stiff and
formal, yet cool acceptance of the position did. She feared it meant that
all was over between them in a way she had never thought possible. But
still she hoped to coax him round. She dreaded the next hour, the day of
reckoning, as it were, but did not try to escape it. On the contrary, she
hastened her dressing in order to get it over as quickly as possible.

"Israfil!" she called to him boldly, as soon as she was ready.

The Tenor returned.

She was standing in the middle of the room when he entered, and she looked
at him confidently, and just as the "Boy" would have done after a piece of
mischief which he had determined to brazen out. The Boy had two moods, the
defiant and the repentant; it seemed that the girl--but here the Tenor
checked his thoughts. It was very hard, though, to drop either of the two
individualities which had hitherto been so distinct and different, and to
realize that one of them at least had never existed.

She certainly brought more courage to the interview than he did, for he,
the wronged one, found as he faced her now that he had not a word to say
for himself. For the moment, she was master of the situation, and she
began at once as if the whole thing were a matter of course.

Catching an involuntary glance of the Tenor's, she put both hands up to
her head as the Boy would have done--so the Tenor, still confused between
the two, expressed it to himself; and the old familiar gesture sent
another pang through his heart. The water had washed the flaxen wig away,
but the thick braids of her hair were still pinned up tightly, accounting
for the shape of the _remarkable head_ about which the Boy had so
often, and, as was now evident, so recklessly, jested.

Her hair was very wet, and she began deliberately to take it down and
unplait it.

"I could not always make it--my head, you know--the same shape," she said,
answering his thought; "but you never noticed the difference, although you
often looked. I used to wonder how you could look so intelligently and see
so little"--and she glanced down at herself, so unmistakably a woman now
that he knew. She had been like a conundrum, the answer to which you would
never have guessed for yourself, but you see it at once when you hear it,
and then it seems so simple. She was rather inclined to speak to the Tenor
in a half pitying, patronizing way, as to a weak creature easily taken in;
but he had recovered himself by this time, and something in his look and
manner awed her, determined as she was, and she could not keep it up.

He moved farther from her, and then spoke in a voice made harsh by the
effort it cost him to control it.

"Why have you done this thing?" he said sternly.

Her heart began to beat violently. The colour left her lips, and she sank
into a chair, covered once more with shame and confusion. But, boy or
girl, the charm of her peculiar personality was still the same, and it had
its effect upon him even at that moment, indignant as he was, as she sat
there, her long hair falling behind her, looking up at him with timid eyes
and with tremulous mouth.

It was pitiful to see her so, and it softened him.

"What was your object?" he asked, relenting.

"Excitement--restlessness--if I had any," she faltered. "But I had no
object. I am inventing one now because you ask me; it is an afterthought.
I--I took the first step"--with a dry sob--"and then I--I just drifted on--
on, you know--from one thing to another."

"But tell me all about it," he persisted, taking a seat as he spoke. "Tell
me exactly how it began."

There was no help for it now. He was sitting in judgment upon her, and she
felt that she must make an effort to satisfy him.

"It began--oh, let me see! how am I to tell you?" and she twisted her
hands, frowning in perplexity. "I don't want to embellish the story so as
to make it picturesque and myself more interesting," and she looked at the
Tenor with slightly elevated eyebrows, as if pained already by her own
inaccuracy. There was something irresistibly comic in this candid avowal
of the force of habit, and all the more so because she was too much in
earnest for once to see the humour of it herself. The Tenor saw it,
however, but he made no sign.

"Well, begin," he said. "I ought to know your method sufficiently well by
this time to enable me to sift the wheat from the chaff."

Angelica considered a little, and then she answered, hesitating as if she
were choosing each word: "I see where the mistake has been all along.
There was no latitude allowed for my individuality. I was a girl, and
therefore I was not supposed to have any bent, I found a big groove ready
waiting for me when I grew up, and in that I was expected to live whether
it suited me or not. It did not suit me. It was deep and narrow, and gave
me no room to move. You see, I loved to make music. Art! That was it.
There is in my own mind an imperative monitor which urges me on always
into competition with other minds. I wanted to _do_ as well as to
_be_, and I knew I wanted to do; but when the time came for me to
begin, my friends armed themselves with the whole social system as it
obtains In our state of life, and came out to oppose me. They used to
lecture me and give me good advice, as if they were able to judge, and it
made me rage. I had none of the domestic virtues, and yet they would
insist upon domesticating me; and the funny part of it was that, side by
side with my natural aspirations was an innate tendency to conform to
their ideas while carrying out my own. I believe I could have satisfied
them--my friends--if only they had not thwarted me. But that was the
mistake. I had the ability to be something more than a young lady,
fiddling away her time on useless trifles, but I was not allowed to apply
it systematically, and ability is like steam--a great power when properly
applied, a great danger otherwise. Let it escape recklessly and the
chances are someone will be scalded; bottle it up and there will be an
explosion. In my case both happened. The steam was allowed to escape at
first instead of being applied to help me on in a definite career, and a
good deal of scalding ensued; and then, to remedy that mistake, the
dangerous experiment of bottling it up was tried, and only too
successfully. I helped a little in the bottling myself, I suppose, and
then came the explosion. This is the explosion,"--glancing round the
disordered room, and then looking down at her masculine attire. "I see it
all now," she proceeded in a spiritless way, looking fixedly into the
fire, as if she were trying to describe something she saw there. "I had
the feeling, never actually formulated in words, but quite easy to
interpret now, that if I broke down conventional obstacles--broke the
hampering laws of society, I should have a chance--"

"It is a common mistake," the Tenor observed, filling up the pause.

"But I did not know how," she pursued, "or where to begin, or what
particular law to break--until one evening. I was sitting alone at an open
window in the dark, and I was tired of doing nothing and very sorry for
myself, and I wanted an object in life more than ever, and then a great
longing seized me. I thought it an aspiration. I wanted to go out there
and then. I wanted to be free to go and come as I would. I felt a galling
sense of restraint all at once, and I determined to break the law that
imposed it; and that alone was a satisfaction--the finding of one law that
I could break. I didn't suppose I could learn much--there wasn't much left
to learn,"--this was said bitterly, as if she attached the blame of it to
somebody else--"but I should be amused, and that was something; and I
should see the world as men see it, which would be from a new point of
view for me, and that would be interesting. It is curious, isn't it?" she
reflected, "that what men call 'life' they always go out at night to see;
and what they mean by 'life' is generally something disgraceful?" It was
to the fire that she made this observation, and then she resumed: "It is
astonishing how importunate some ideas become--one now and then of all the
numbers that occur to you; how it takes possession of you, and how it
insists upon being carried into effect. This one gave me no peace. I knew
from the first I should do it, although I didn't want to, and I didn't
intend to, if you can understand such a thing. But my dress was an
obstacle. As a woman, I could not expect to be treated by men with as much
respect as they show to each other. I know the value of men's cant about
protecting the 'weaker' sex! Because I was a woman I knew I should be
insulted, or at all events hindered, however inoffensive my conduct; and
so I prepared this disguise. And I began to be amused at once. It amused
me to devise it. I saw a tailor's advertisement, with instructions how to
measure yourself; and I measured myself and sent to London for the
clothes--these thin ones are padded to make me look square like a boy. And
then, with some difficulty, I got a wig of the right colour. It fitted
exactly--covered all my own hair, you know, and was so beautifully made
that it was impossible for any unsuspicious person to detect it without
touching it; and the light shade of it, too, accounted for the fairness of
my skin, which would have looked suspiciously clear and delicate with
darker hair. The great difficulty was my hands and feet; but the different
shape of a boy's shoes made my feet pass; and I crumpled my hands up and
kept them out of sight as much as possible. But they are not of a
degenerated smallness," she added, looking at them critically; "it is more
their shape. However, when I dressed myself and put on that long ulster, I
saw the disguise would pass and felt pretty safe. But isn't it surprising
the difference dress makes? I should hardly have thought it possible to
convert a substantial young woman into such a slender, delicate-looking
boy as I make. But it just shows how important dress is."

The Tenor groaned. "Didn't you know the risk you were running?" he asked.

"Oh, yes!" she answered coolly. "I knew I was breaking a law of the land.
I knew I should be taken before a police magistrate if I were caught
masquerading, and that added excitement to the pleasure--the charm of
danger. But then you see it was danger without danger for me, because I
knew I should be mistaken for my brother. Our own parents do not know us
apart when we are dressed alike."

"Oh, then there _are_ two of you?" the Tenor said.

"Yes. I told you. They call us the Heavenly Twins," said Angelica.

"Yes, you told me," the Tenor repeated thoughtfully. "But then you told me
so many things."

"Well, I told you nothing that was not absolutely true," Angelica
answered--"from Diavolo's point of view. I assumed his manner and habits
when I put these things on, imitated him in everything, tried to think his
thoughts, and looked at myself from his point of view; in fact my
difficulty was to remember that I was not him. I used to forget sometimes--
and think I was. But I confess that I never was such a gentleman as
Diavolo is always under all circumstances. In view of these facts it might
be expected that railway managers, who are continually told that
the smoke of their engines is a serious annoyance to the public,
would be eager to make themselves acquainted with them; it might,
in particular, be expected that the managers of the underground and
suburban railways of this metropolis would lose no time in making
experiments on their own lines--if only by converting some of their
old engines into those of the fireless system--and assist a little
in the development of an invention, in the success of which they
have a tangible interest which is much greater than that of any
railway on the Continent, but there is no sign yet of their having
done anything.

--_E., in The Engineer_.

* * * * *

SIMPLE METHODS OF CALCULATING STRESSES IN GIRDERS.

By CHARLES LEAN, M. Inst. C.E.

_Bowstring Girders._--Having had occasion to get out the stresses in girders
of the bowstring form, the author was not satisfied with the common
formulæ for the diagonal braces, which, owing to the difficulty of
apportioning the stresses amongst five members meeting in one point, were
to a large extent based on an assumption as to the course taken by
the stresses. As far as he could ascertain it, the ordinary method was
to assume that one set of diagonals, or those inclined, say, to the
right-hand, acted at one time, and those inclined in the opposite direction
at another time, and, in making the calculations, the apportionment of the
stresses was effected by omitting one set.
Calculations made in this way give results which would justify the common
method adopted in the construction of bowstring girders, viz., of
bracing the verticals and leaving the diagonal unbraced; but an inspection
of many existing examples of these bridges during the passing of the live
load showed that there was something defective in them. The long
unbraced ties vibrated considerably, and evidently got slack during a
part of the time that the live load was passing over the bridge. In
order to get some definite formulæ for these girders free from any
assumed conditions as to the course taken by the stresses, or their
apportionment amongst the several members meeting at each joint,
the author adopted the following method, which, he believes, has
not hitherto been used by engineers:
Let Fig. 1 represent a bowstring girder, the stresses in which it
is desired to ascertain under the loads shown on it by the circles,
the figures in the small circles representing the dead load per
bay, and that in the large circle the total of live and dead load
per bay of the main girders.

A girder, Fig. 1A, with parallel flanges, verticals, and diagonals, and
depth equal to the length of one bay, was drawn with the same
loading as the bowstring.

The stresses in the flanges were taken out, as shown in the figure, keeping
separate those caused by diagonals inclined to the left from those caused
by diagonals inclined to the right.
But I was going to say that I am sure all my vagaries
have arisen out of the dread of having nothing better to do from now until
the day of my death--as I once said to an uncle of mine--but to get up and
go to bed, after spending the interval in the elegant and useless way
ladies do--a ride, a drive, a dinner, a dance, a little music--trifling
all the time to no purpose, not even amusing one's self, for when
amusement begins to be a business, it ceases to be a pleasure. This has
not mended matters, I know," she acknowledged drearily; "but it has been a
distraction, and that was something while it lasted. Monotony, however
luxurious, is not less irksome because it is easy. A hardworking woman
would have rest to look forward to, but I hadn't even that, although I was
always wearied to death--as tired of my idleness or purposeless
occupations as anybody could possibly be by work. I think if you will put
yourself in my place, you will not wonder at me, nor at any woman under
the circumstances who, secure of herself and her position, varies the
monotony of her life with an occasional escapade as one puts sauce into
soup to relieve the insipidity. Deplore it if you will, but don't wonder
at it; it is the natural consequence of an unnatural state of things, and
there will be more of it still, or I am much mistaken."

Again the Tenor changed his position. "I cannot, _cannot_ comprehend
how you could have risked your reputation in such a way," he said, shaking
his head with grave concern.

"No risk to my reputation," she answered with the insolence of rank.
"Everybody knows who I am, and, if I remember rightly, 'That in the
captain's but a choleric word which in the soldier is rank blasphemy.'
What would be an unpardonable offence if committed by another woman less
highly placed than myself is merely an amusing eccentricity in me, so--for
_my_ benefit--conveniently snobbish is society. Since I grew up,
however, I find that I am not one of those who can say flippantly, 'You
can't have everything, and if people have talents they are not to be
expected to have characters as well.' Great talent should be held to be a
guarantee for good character; the loss of the one makes the possession of
the other dangerous. But what I do maintain is that I have done nothing by
which I ought in justice to be held to have jeopardised my character. I
have broken no commandment, nor should I under any circumstances. It is
only the idea of the thing that shocks your prejudices. You cannot bear to
see me decently dressed as a boy, but you would think nothing of it if you
saw me half undressed for a ball, as I often am; yet if the one can be
done with a modest mind, and you must know that it can, so can the other,
I suppose."

The Tenor was sitting sideways on his chair, his elbow resting on the
back, his head on his hand, his legs crossed, half turned from her and
listening without looking at her; and there was something in the way she
made this last remark that set a familiar chord vibrating not
unpleasantly. Perhaps, after the revelation, he had expected her to turn
into a totally different person; at all events he was somewhat surprised,
but not disagreeably, to perceive how like the Boy she was. This was the
Boy again, exactly, in a bad mood, and the Tenor sought at once, as was
his wont, to distract him rather than argue him out of it. This was the
force of habit, and it was also due to the fact that his mind was rapidly
adapting itself to a strange position and becoming easier in the new
attitude. The woman he had been idolizing was lost irretrievably, but the
charm which had been the Boy's remained to him, and he had already begun
to reconcile himself to the idea of a wrong-headed girl who must be helped
and worked for, instead of a wrong-headed boy.

"But why should you have chosen this impossible form of amusement in
particular?" he said. "Why could you not interest yourself in the people
about you--do something for them?"

"I did think of that, I did try," she answered petulantly. "But it is
impossible for a woman to devote herself to people for whom there is
nothing to be done, who don't want her devotion; and, besides, devotion
wasn't my vocation. But, after all," she broke off, defending herself, "I
only arrived at this by slow degrees, and I never should have come so far
at all if Diavolo had stuck to me; but he got into a state of
don't-care-and-can't-be-bothered, and separated his work from mine by
going to Sandhurst. Then I found myself alone, and you cannot think how a
woman, must suffer from the awful loneliness of a life like mine when I
had no one near me in the sense in which Diavolo has always been near, a
life that is full of acquaintances as a cake is full of currants, no two
of which ever touch each other."

The Tenor's habitual quiescence seemed to have deserted him. He changed
his position incessantly, and did so now again; it was the only sign he
made of being disturbed at all; and as he moved he brushed his hand back
over his hair, but did not speak.

"I kept my disguise a long time before I used it," she began again,
another morsel of incident and motive recurring to her. "I don't think I
had any very distinct notion of what I should do with it when I got it.
The pleasure of getting it had been everything for the moment, and having
succeeded in that and tried the dress, I hid it away carefully and
scarcely ever thought of it--never dreamt of wearing it certainly until
one night--it was quite an impulse at last. That night, you know, the
first time we met--it was such a beautiful night! I was by myself and had
nothing to do as usual, and it tempted me sorely, I thought I should like
to see the market-place by moonlight, and then all at once I thought I
_would_ see it by moonlight. That was my first weighty reason for
changing my dress. But having once assumed the character, I began to love
it; it came naturally; and the freedom from restraint, I mean the
restraint of our tight uncomfortable clothing, was delicious. I tell you I
was a genuine boy. I moved like a boy, I felt like a boy; I was my own
brother in very truth. Mentally and morally, I was exactly what you
thought me, and there was little fear of your finding me out, although I
used to like to play with the position and run the risk."

"It was marvellous," the Tenor said.

"Not at all," she answered, "not a bit more marvellous in real life than
it would have been upon the stage--a mere exercise of the actor's faculty
under the most favourable circumstances; and not a bit more marvellous
than to create a character as an author does in a book; the process is
analogous. But something antagonistic to his own dejection, to the
Muslim's fatalism, emerged from David's own altruism, to nerve him to
hope and effort still. His unconquerable optimism rose determinedly to the
surface, even as he summed up and related the forces working against
him.

"They have all come at once," he said; "all the activities opposing
me, just as though they had all been started long ago at different points,
with a fixed course to run, and to meet and give me a fall in the hour
when I could least resist. You call it Fate. I call it what it proves
itself to be. But here it is a hub of danger and trouble, and the
spokes of disaster are flying to it from all over the compass, to
make the wheel that will grind me; and all the old troop of Palace
intriguers and despoilers are waiting to heat the tire and fasten
it on the machine of torture.

Kaid has involved himself in loans which press, in foolish experiments
in industry without due care; and now from ill-health and bad
temper comes a reaction towards the old sinister rule, when the
Prince shuts his eyes and his agents ruin and destroy.

Three nations who have intrigued against my work see their chance, and are
at Kaid's elbow.
The fate of the Soudan is in the balance. It is all as the shake of a
feather. I can save it if I go; but, just as I am ready, my mills burn
down, my treasury dries up, Kaid turns his back on me, and the toil of
years is swept away in a night. Thee sees it is terrible, friend?"
Ebn Ezra looked at him seriously and sadly for a moment, and then said:

"Is it given one man to do all? If many men had done these things, then
there had been one blow for each. Now all falls on thee, Saadat. Is
it the will of God that one man should fling the lance, fire the cannon,
dig the trenches, gather food for the army, drive the horses on to battle,
and bury the dead? Canst thou do all?"
David's eyes brightened to the challenge. "There was the work to do, and
there were not the many to do it. My hand was ready; the call came; I
answered. I plunged into the river of work alone."
"Thou didst not know the strength of the currents, the eddies and the
whirlpools, the hidden rocks--and the shore is far off, Saadat."
"It is not so far but that, if I could get breath to gather strength, I
should reach the land in time. Money--ah, but enough for this expedition!
That over, order, quiet yonder, my own chosen men as governors, and I
could"--he pointed towards the southern horizon-- "I could plant my foot
in Cairo, and from the centre control the great machinery--with Kaid's
help; and God's help. A sixth of a million, and Kaid's hand behind me, and
the boat would lunge free of the sand-banks and churn on, and churn on.
. . .

Friend," he added, with the winning insistence that few found it possible
to resist, "if all be well, and we go thither, wilt thou become the
governor-general yonder? With thee to rule justly where there is most need
of justice, the end would be sure-- if it be the will of God."
Ebn Ezra Bey sat for a moment looking into the worn, eager face, indistinct
in the moonlight, then answered slowly: "I am seventy, and the years smite
hard as they pass, and there or here, it little matters when I go, as
I must go; and whether it be to bend the lance, or bear the flag before
thee, or rule a Mudirieh, what does it matter! I will go with thee," he
added hastily; "but it is better thou shouldst not go.

Within the last three days I have news from the South.
I have enjoyed the benefit of
free intercourse with your masculine mind undiluted by your masculine
prejudices and proclivities with regard to my sex. Had you known that I
was a woman--even you--the pleasure of your companionship would have been
spoilt for me, so unwholesomely is the imagination of a man affected by
ideas of sex. The fault is in your training; you are all of you educated
deliberately to think of women chiefly as the opposite sex. Your manner to
me has been quite different from that of any other man I ever knew. Some
have fawned on me, degrading me with the supposition that I exist for the
benefit of man alone, and that it will gratify me above all else to know
that I please him; and some few, such as yourself, have embarrassed me by
putting me on a pedestal, which is, I can assure you, an exceedingly
cramped and uncomfortable position. There is no room to move on a
pedestal. Now, with you alone of all men, not excepting Diavolo, I almost
think I have been on an equal footing; and it has been to me like the free
use of his limbs to a prisoner after long confinement with chains." The
expression which the Tenor's abrupt question had called into her
countenance passed off as she spoke, and with it the impression it had
made upon the Tenor. He mistook the remarks she had just been making for a
natural girlish evasion of the subject, and he did not return to it,
partly because he felt it to be an inopportune time, but also because he
was pretty sure of her feeling for him, and thought that he would have
ample leisure by and by, the leisure of a lifetime, to press the question.
There were other explanations to be asked for too, which it seemed
advisable to him to get over at once and have done with.

"But how have you managed to get out night after night," he asked,
"without being missed?"

"Not night after night," she answered. "If you remember, there were often
long intervals. But I have told you, I was constantly alone. The house is
large, none of the servants sleep near my room, and my husband--"

"Your--_what_?" the Tenor demanded, turning round on his chair to
face her, every vestige of colour gone from his countenance, yet not
convinced. "What did you say?" he repeated, aghast.

"My--husband," she faltered. "Mr. Kilroy, of Ilverthorpe."

Hitherto, he had uttered no reproach, but she knew that this reticence was
due to self-respect rather than to any lingering remnant of deference, and
now when she saw his face ablaze she was prepared for an outburst of
wrath. All he said, however, was, speaking with quiet dignity: "You need
not have allowed that part of the deception to go on. You should have told
me that at once; why did you not?"

For the first time Angelica lost her presence of mind. "I--I forgot," she
stammered.

The Tenor threw back his sunny head and laughed bitterly.

"It is a curious fact," Angelica remarked upon reflection, and as if
speaking to herself, "but I really had forgotten."

The Tenor looked at the fire, and in the little pause that ensued Angelica
suddenly lost her temper.

"If you are deceived in me you have deceived yourself," she burst out,
"for I have tried my utmost to undeceive you. You go and fall in love with
a girl you have never spoken to in your life, you endow her gratuitously
with all the virtues you admire without asking if she cares to possess
them; and when you find she is not the peerless perfection you require her
to be, you blame her! oh! isn't that like a man? You all say the same
thing: 'It wasn't me!'"

"What will your husband say?" the Tenor ejaculated in an undertone.

"Well, you see the bargain was when I asked him to marry me--"

"When you _what?_" said the Tenor.

"Asked him to marry me," Angelica calmly repeated. "The bargain was that
he should let me do as I liked, there being a tacit understanding between
us, of course, that I should do nothing morally wrong. I could not under
any circumstances do anything morally wrong--not, I confess, because I am
particularly high-minded, but because I cannot imagine where the charm and
pleasure of the morally wrong comes in. The best pleasures in life are in
art, not in animalism; and all the benefit of your acquaintance, I repeat,
has consisted in the fact that you were unaware of my sex. I knew that
directly you became aware of it another element would be introduced into
our friendship which would entirely spoil it so far as I am concerned."

It is a noteworthy fact, as showing how hopelessly involved man's moral
perceptions are with his prejudices and faith in custom even when
reprehensible, that the Tenor was if anything more shocked by Angelica's
outspoken objection to grossness than he would have been by a declaration
of passion on her part. The latter lapse is not unprecedented, and
therefore might have been excused as natural; but the unusual nature of
the declaration she had made put it into the category to which all things
out of order are relegated to be taken exception to, irrespective of their
ethical value. But he said nothing, only he turned from her once more, and
gazed sorrowfully into the fire.

Angelica looked at him with a dissatisfied frown on her face. "I wish you
would speak," she said to him under her breath; and then she began again
herself with her accustomed volubility: "Oh, yes, I married. That was what
was expected of me. Now, my brother when he grew up was asked with the
most earnest solicitude what he would like to be or to do; everything was
made easy for him to enter upon any career he might choose, but nobody
thought of giving me a chance. It was taken for granted that I should be
content to marry, and only to marry, and when I expressed my objection to
being so limited nobody believed I was in earnest. So here I am. And I
won't deny," she confessed with her habitual candour, "that it did occur
to me that I might have cared for you as a lover had I not been married.
But of course the thought did not disturb me. It was merely a passing
glimpse of a might-have-been. When one has a husband one must be loyal to
him, even in thought, whatever terms we are on."

The Tenor rose abruptly and walked to the farther end of the room, and
stood there for a little leaning against the window-frame with his back to
her, looking out at the cathedral. He felt sick and faint, and found the
fire and the smell of the roses overpowering. Compared with the United
States, France and Germany, for example, have advanced but little in
population. They have, however, done wonders for themselves and the world
by activities which we have, in comparison, neglected.
The old city of London gains in wealth as it loses in inhabitants.

[Illustration: HOE'S NEW PERFECTING PRINTING-PRESS, PRINTING 12,000
DOUBLE IMPRESSIONS PER HOUR, AND THE OLD EPHRATA PRESS.]
Yet success in the multiplication of souls within their own borders--depopulate
as they may elsewhere--is eagerly coveted and regularly measured
by all the nations.

Since 1790, when we set them the example, they have one by one adopted
the rule of numbering heads every five, six or ten years, recognizing
latterly as well, more and more, the importance of numbering other things,
until men, women and children have come to be embedded in a medley of
steam-engines, pigs, newspapers, schools, churches and bolts of
calico. For twenty centuries this taking of stock by governments had
been an obsolete practice, until revived by the framers of the American
Constitution and made a vital part of that instrument. The right of the
most--and not of the richest, the best, the bravest, the cleverest, or
the oldest in blood--to rule being formally recognized and set down
on paper, it became necessary to ascertain at stated intervals who
were the most.

The lords of the soil, instead of being inducted into power on the
death of their parents with great pother of ointment, Te Deum,
heraldry, drum and trumpet, were chosen every ten years by a corps
of humble knights of the pencil and schedule.

To these disposers of empire, the enhancement and complication of whose toil
has been a labor of love with each decennial Congress, we owe the knowledge
that eighty years, out of the hundred, brought the people of the Union
up from a tally of 3,929,214 in 1790 to 38,558,371 in 1870, and that down
to the beginning of the last decade the rate of increment adhered
closely to 35 per cent.

On that basis of growth the latest return falls nearly four millions short.
One of the causes of this is "too obvious" (and too disagreeable)
"to mention;" but it is inadequate.

The sharp demarcation of the western frontier by the grasshopper
and the hygrometer is another, which will continue to operate until,
by irrigation, tree-planting or some other device, a new climate
can be manufactured for the Plains.

The teeming West, that of old needed only to be tickled with a hoe to laugh
with a harvest, has disappeared. At least what is left of it has lost the
power of suction that was wont to reach across the ocean, pull
Ballys and Dorfs up by the roots and transplant them bodily to the Muskingum
and the Des Moines. A third cause, operating more especially within the
current decade, is attributable to another mode in which that attractive
power has been exerted--the absorption from the European purse for the
construction of railways of seven or eight times as much as the thirty-five
millions in specie it took to fight through the Revolutionary war.
It was evident, too, from the way the Tenor
had allowed the subject to drop, tacitly agreeing to the assertion: "For
me as I am I knew you could have no regard," that he considered there was
nothing more to be said; but Angelica retained her childish habit of
talking everything out, and this did not satisfy her, it was such a lame
conclusion.

She got up now, however, to accompany him. "My hair!" she exclaimed,
recollecting. "What am I to do with my hair? I suppose my wig is lost."
Then she burst out passionately: "Oh, why did you save my life!" and wrung
her hands--"or why aren't you different now you know? Can't you say
something to restore my self-respect? Won't you forgive me?"

The Tenor's face contracted as with a spasm of pain. He had much to
forgive, and he may be pardoned if he showed no eagerness; but he spoke at
last. "I do forgive you," he said. Then all at once his great tender heart
swelled with pity. "Poor misguided girl!" he faltered with a broken voice;
"may God in heaven forgive you, and help you, and keep you safe, and make
you good and true and pure now and always."

She sank down at that, and clasped his feet and burst into a paroxysm of
tears, which were as a fervent _Amen_ to the Tenor's prayer.

"Come!" he said, raising her. "Come, before it is too late. You must do
something with your hair."

But she could not plait it, her hands trembled so, and he was obliged to
help her. He got her a hat to roll it up under.

"The light is uncertain," he said, "and it is raining now. Even if we do
meet anyone, I don't think they would notice--especially if I can find an
umbrella for you."

He hunted one up from somewhere, and then he hurried her away, ferried her
across the river, and left her at the lodge gate safely, his last words
being:--"You will do some good in the world--you will be a good woman yet,
I know--I know you will."


END OF BOOK IV


BOOK V.

MRS. KILROY OF ILVERTHORPE.


  Face to face in my chamber, my silent chamber, I saw her:
  God and she and I only, there I sat down to draw her Soul through
  The clefts of confession--"Speak, I am holding thee fast,
  As the angel of recollection shall do it at last!"
  "My cup is blood-red
  With my sin," she said,
  "And I pour it out to the bitter lees.
  As if the angel of judgment stood over me strong at last
  Or as thou wert as these,"

--_Elizabeth Barrett Browning_.


  Howbeit all is not lost
  The warm noon ends in frost
  And worldly tongues of promise,
  Like sheep-bells die from us
  On the desert hills cloud-crossed:
  Yet through the silence shall
  Pierce the death-angel's call,
  And "Come up hither," recover all.
  Heart, wilt thou go?
  I go!
  Broken hearts triumph so.

--_Ibid_.


CHAPTER I.


Half an hour after the Tenor parted from Angelica, she was sleeping
soundly, not because she was dedolent but because she was exhausted; and
when that is the case sleep is the blessed privilege of youth and
strength, let what will have preceded it. She lay there in her luxurious
bed, with one hand under her head, her thick dark hair--just as the Tenor
had braided it--in contrast to the broad white pillow; her smooth face, on
which no emotion of any kind had written a line as yet, placid as a little
child's; to all appearance an ideal of innocence and beauty. And while she
slept the rain stopped, the misty morning broke, the clouds had cleared
away, and the sun shone forth, welcomed by a buzz of insects and chirrup
of birds; the uprising of countless summer scents, and the opening of
rainbow flowers. It was one of those radiant days, harmonizing best with
tranquil or joyous moods, when, if we are disconsolate, nature seems to
mock our misery, and callous earth rejoices forgetful of storms, making us
wonder with a deeper discontent why we, too, cannot forget.

Angelica slept a heavy dreamless sleep, and when she did awake late in the
morning, it was not gradually, with that pleasant dreamy languor which
precedes mental activity in happy times, but with a sudden start that
aroused her to full consciousness in a moment, and the recollection of all
that had occurred the night before. Black circles round her eyes bore
witness to the danger, fatigue, and emotion of her late experiences; she
had a sharp pain in her head, too, and she was unaccustomed to physical
pain; but she felt it less than the dull ache she had at her heart, and a
general sense of things gone wrong that oppressed her, but which she
strove with stubborn determination to stifle.

Her maid was busy in the dressing room, the door of which was open, and
she called her.

"Elizabeth!"

"Yes, ma'am," and the maid appeared, smiling.

She was a good-looking woman of thirty or thereabouts. She had come to
Angelica when the latter got out of her nurse's hands, and remained with
her ever since, Angelica being one of those mistresses who win the hearts
of their servants by recognizing the human nature in them, and
appreciating the kindness there is in devotion rather than accepting it as
a necessary part of the obligation to earn wages.

"Bring me a cup of coffee, Elizabeth."

"Yes, ma'am," the maid rejoined, "It shall be ready for you as soon as you
have had your bath."

"But I want it now," said Angelica, springing out of bed energetically,
and holding first one slim foot and then the other out to be shod.

There was a twinkle in the maid's eye as she answered: "Please, ma'am, you
made me promise never to give it to you, however much you might wish it,
until you had had your bath. You said you'd be sure to ask for it, and I
was to refuse, because hot coffee was bad for you just before a cold bath,
and you really enjoyed it more afterward, only you hadn't the strength of
mind to wait."

"Quite so," said Angelica. "You're a treasure, Elizabeth, really. But did
I say you were to begin to-day?"

"No, ma'am; not to-day in particular. But the last time I brought it to
you early you scolded me after you had taken it, and said if ever I let
myself be persuaded again, you'd dismiss me on the spot. And you warned me
that you'd be artful and get it out of me somehow if I didn't take care."

"So I did," said Angelica.

She had been brought up with a pretty smart shock the night before, and
was suffering from the physical effects of the same that morning; the
mental were still in abeyance. She felt a strange lassitude for one thing,
and was strongly inclined to indulge it by being indolent. She breakfasted
in her own room, but could not eat, neither could she read. She turned her
letters over; then tried a book; then going back to her letters again, she
picked one out which she had overlooked before. It was from her husband,
and as she read it she changed countenance somewhat, but it would be
impossible to say what the change betokened, whether pleasure or the
reverse.

"Elizabeth," she said, speaking evenly as usual, "your master is coming
back to-day. He will be here for lunch."

The sickening sense of loss and pain which had assailed her when she awoke
that morning did not diminish as the day wore on, nor did her thoughts
grow less importunate; but she steadily refused to entertain any of them,
or to let her mental discomfort interfere with her occupations. After
reading her husband's letter she finished dressing, had a long interview
with her housekeeper, went round the premises as was her daily habit, to
see that all was in order, and then retired to her morning room, and set
to work methodically to write orders, see to accounts, and answer letters.
It was a busy day with her, and she had only just finished when Mr. Kilroy
arrived. She went to meet him pleasantly, held up her cheek to be kissed,
and said she was glad he was in time for lunch. There was no sign of the
joy or effusion with which young wives usually receive their husbands
after an absence, but the greeting was eminently friendly. Angelica had
always had a strong liking for Mr. Kilroy, and, as she told him, marriage
had not affected this in any way. She had made a friend of him while she
was still in the schoolroom, and confided to him many things which she
would not have mentioned to anyone else, not even excepting Diavolo; and
she continued to do so still. She was sure of his sympathy, sure of his
devotion, and she respected him as sincerely as she trusted him. In fact,
had there been any outlet for her superfluous mental energy, any
satisfactory purpose to which the motive power of it might have been
applied, she would have made Mr. Kilroy an excellent wife. She was not in
love with him, but she probably liked him all the better on that account,
for she must have been disappointed in him sooner or later had she ever
discovered in him those marvellous fascinations which passion projects
from itself on to the personality of the most commonplace person. As it
was, however, she had always left him out of her day-dreams altogether.
She quite believed that pleasure is the end of life, but then her ideal of
pleasure was nice in the extreme. Nothing so vulgar and violent as passion
entered into it, and nothing so transient, so enervating, corroding, and
damaging both to the intellectual powers and the capacity for permanent
enjoyment; and nothing so repulsive either in its details, its
self-centred egotistical exaltation, and the self-abasement which arrives
with that final sense of satiety which she perceived to be inevitable.
That part of her nature had never been roused into active life, partly
because it was not naturally strong, but also because the more refined and
delicately sensuous appreciation of beauty in life, which is so much a
characteristic of capable women nowadays, dominated such animalism as she
was equal to, and made all coarser pleasures repugnant. It had been
suggested to her that she might, with her position and wealth, form a
salon and lay herself out to attract, but she said: "No, thank you. One
sees in the history of French salons the effect of irresponsible power on
the women who formed them, I am bad enough naturally, without applying for
a licence to become worse, by making myself so agreeable that everybody
will excuse me if I do. And as to being a great beauty and nothing else,
one might as well be a great cow; the comfort would be the same and the
anxiety less, the amount of attention received not depending on a clear
complexion or an increase of figure, and therefore necessitating no limit
in the enjoyment of such good things as come with the varying seasons, the
winter wurzel and summer state of being in clover."

It was to Mr. Kilroy that these remarks were made one day when she wanted
a target to talk at, for her appreciation of her husband did not amount to
any adequate comprehension of the extent to which he understood her. The
truth was, however, that he understood her better than anybody else did,
the complete latitude he gave to her to do as she liked being evidence of
the fact, if only she could have interpreted it; but she had failed to do
so, his quiet undemonstrative manner having sufficed to deceive her
superficial observation of him as effectually as the treacherous
smoothness of her own placid face when in repose, upon the unruffled
surface of which there was neither mark nor sign to indicate the current
of changeful moods, ambitious projects, and poetical fancies, which
coursed impetuously within, might excusably have imposed upon him. He was
twenty years older than Angelica and looked it, but more by reason of his
grave demeanour than from any actual mark of age, for his life had been
well ordered and as free from care as it had been from corruption. Mr.
Kilroy was not a talkative man, and what he did say was neither original
nor brilliant, yet he was generally trusted, and his advice oftener asked
and followed than that of people whose reputations were at least as good,
and whose abilities were infinitely better; the explanation of which was
probably to be found in the good feeling which he brought to the
consideration of all subjects. Some people whose brains would be at fault
if they were asked to judge, are enabled by qualities of heart to feel
their way to the most praiseworthy conclusions. Mr. Kilroy was one of
those people, well-born and of ample means, whom society recognizes as its
own, but without enthusiasm, the sterling qualities which make them such
an addition to its ranks being less appreciated than the wealth and
position which they contribute to its resources; still, in his case it was
customary for women to describe him as "a thoroughly nice man," while "an
exceedingly good fellow" was the corresponding masculine, verdict.

He was in parliament now, and was consequently obliged to be in London
continually, but latterly Angelica had refused to accompany him. She loved
their place near Morningquest, and she had begun to appreciate the ancient
city with its kindly, benighted, unchristian ways, its picturesqueness,
and all that was odd and old-world about it. There, too, she was somebody,
but in crowded London she lost all sense of her own identity; though, to
do her justice, she disliked it less for that than for itself, for its hot
rooms, society gossip, vapid men and spiteful women. Mr. Kilroy could
rarely persuade her to accompany him, and never induce her to stay. Having
her with him was just the one thing that he was a little persistent about,
and her wilfulness in this respect had been a real trouble to him. He had
come now to see if she continued obdurate, and he came meekly and with
conciliation in his whole attitude. She thought, however, that she knew
how to get rid of him, how to make him return alone in a week of his own
accord, so far as he himself knew anything about it, and that, too,
without thinking her horrid; and she laid her plans accordingly. This was
something to do; and so irksome did she find the purposeless existence
which the misfortune of having been born a woman compelled her to lead,
that even such an object was a relief, and her spirits rose.
Something--anything for an occupation; that was the state to which she was
reduced. She began at once, and began by talking. All through lunch she
discoursed admirably, and at first Mr. Kilroy listened fascinated, but by
and by his attention became strained. He found himself forced to listen;
it was an effort, and yet he could not help himself. He tried to check
Angelica by assuming an absent look, but she recalled him with a sharp
exclamation. He even took a letter out of his pocket and read the
superscription, but put it away again shamefacedly, upon her gently
apologizing for monopolizing so much of his attention.

"You see it is so long since I saw you," she said. "You must forgive me if
I have too much to say."

CHRONIC DYSENTERY
(Bacterial Dysentery--Jones Disease)
CAUSE: Acid-fast Bacillus resembling the Tubercular Bacillus that invade
the intestines by the way of the animal drinking water or eating food
containing the Acid-fast Bacteria.

SYMPTOMS: Diarrhoea, loss of flesh, although the appetite is good, hair
becomes dry and harsh, temperature remains about normal. The Diarrhoea
becomes persistent and tinged with blood. The animal becomes emaciated
and anemic, exhausted, and death follows. This disease may continue for a
month or even a year before death takes place. However this is very
uncommon. They generally die very shortly.

TREATMENT: Separate the affected cattle from the healthy ones. All fecal
matter should be deeply buried or burned, the stalls, barnyards, also
thoroughly disinfected. Administration of medicine thus far has been
unsatisfactory, although a treatment should be directed toward the
intestines with internal antiseptics such as Zinc Sulphocarbolates, one
and one-half grains; Protan, three drams; Pulv. Nux Vomica, one dram;
Bismuth Subnitrate, one dram. Place in gelatin capsule and give with
capsule gun. This dose should be repeated three or four times a day.
Feed a good quality of food, such as wheat bran mashes or steamed rolled
oats and see that the water supply is fresh and non-contaminated.

COLIC
CAUSE: Drinking large quantities of cold water when overheated. However,
this disorder is very uncommon in cattle owing to the fact that they are
not worked, seldom overheated and drink water very slowly.

SYMPTOMS: Kicking or raising of the feet to the belly. Lying down and getting
up alternately. Distention of the stomach or paunch with gas.
The animal chills or shivers, etc.

TREATMENT: Strong stimulants or tonics as the following will give immediate
results if administered in its first stages: Pulv. Nux Vomica, two ounces;
Pulv. Ginger, two ounces; Pulv. Capsicum, two ounces. Make into eight
capsules and give one capsule every two hours until relieved.

Give the capsules with capsule gun. If severe bloating accompanies a case
of Colic in cattle place one ounce dose of Oil of Turpentine in ounce
capsules and give with capsule gun.

[Illustration: Photograph of bull.] CHAMPION GALLOWAY BULL, STANDARD
FAVORITE, INTERNATIONAL 1913.

Owned by C. S. Hetehncr, Chariton, Iowa.

CONGESTION OF THE LUNGS

CAUSE: Cattle permitted to stand in drafts when warm after being driven,
etc., irritating drugs escaping into the lungs when drenching, as
it is very difficult for cattle to swallow when their heads are
elevated.

SYMPTOMS: Dullness. The animal loses its spirits, so to speak, usually
shivers or trembles. When this ceases, the temperature rises to perhaps
105 or 106 degrees F. The ears and legs grow cold, the nose hot and
dry, pulse rapid but firm, breathing short and labored, a short hacking
cough will be present. Such animals generally remain standing.

Other symptoms are constipation, the feces covered with mucus or a slime,
great thirst. The eyes are inflamed and look glassy. The secretions
of milk are suppressed, if these symptoms develop in milking
cows.

TREATMENT: Place the animal in clean, warm, comfortable quarters
permitting light and as much pure air as possible, but avoid drafts and
blanket the animal if chilly. Hand rub the legs and bandage with woolen
cloths. Administer Pulv. Carbonate of Ammonia, four ounces; Pulv. Nux
Vomica, three ounces; Quinine, two ounces; Nitrate of Potash, two ounces;
Potassium Iodide, one ounce. Make into twenty-four capsules and
give one capsule every four hours with capsule gun.

Also apply a paste made from Mustard and cold water over the lung cavities
just back of the fore legs. Apply once a day and perhaps one or two
applications will be sufficient.

If this disease is treated when the first symptoms develop, a good recovery
will follow. Feed easily digested food as hot wheat bran mashes or steamed
rolled oats, vegetables and green grass if possible.

CONTAGIOUS ABORTION
(Infectious Abortion)
CAUSE: Due to a germ (Bacillus Abortus) coming in direct contact
with the genital organs of a bull or cow and can be indefinitely
transmitted from one herd to another by infected bulls serving
healthy cows, or infected cows when served transmit the infection
to healthy bulls.

Healthy cows become infected by their genital organs coming in contact
with litter on floors when lying down or rubbing against fences,
walls or posts previously soiled by aborting cows.

Cattle licking one another is also a prolific cause.

SYMPTOMS: The signs of calving are not so well marked as in normal
calving, especially where the aborting animal is a heifer and the
gestation period has not exceeded three or four weeks.

In cows, especially where the gestation period has advanced to
five or seven months, the symptoms are easily detected as a rule by a
swelling of the udder, or what is commonly termed "making bag," the outer
portions of the womb swollen and inflamed as in normal calving.

As the period of abortion approaches, there will be a discharge of mucus
and blood from the womb. Labor pains are not as severe as in normal
calving, owing to the absence of hair on the foetus and being smaller;
although the afterbirth (foetal membranes), may be retained the same as
in normal calving.

PREVENTIVE TREATMENT: This perhaps is the cheapest and best method
of treating Contagious Abortion.

When purchasing bulls or cows, ascertain whether the farm you purchased from
has Contagious Abortion. An investigation of this kind often saves labor,
time and money.

MEDICAL TREATMENT: When once Contagious Abortion makes its appearance,
separate infected from non-infected animals, remove all litter,
manure, etc., from barns, corrals, and burn or bury deeply. The conveyances
used should be tight so as to prevent scattering.

Scrub and disinfect floors, fences, walls of barns and rubbing posts
with a solution made from three pounds of Copper Sulphate to ten
gallons of water, permitting it to thoroughly dissolve before using.

Use an ordinary barrel and cover so as to prevent any cattle drinking same,
as it is very poisonous. When a cow aborts, remove the calf
and afterbirth in a tight receptacle that will prevent any portion
from being scattered, and burn or bury deeply; disinfect the floor and walls
of stall where the abortion took place as long as the cow is discharging
any fluids from the womb. A gallon of distilled or boiled water containing
about one per cent Carbolic Acid should be injected into the womb with
an ordinary hose and funnel. This should be repeated once a day for a
week. Use a solution of the same strength for washing the tail and parts
around the outer part of the womb, or in fact any part that the
discharge of an aborting cow may come in contact with.

Internally, give Methylen Blue in thirty grain doses, every other
day for two weeks. This is an exceptionally disagreeable drug to administer
as it stains everything it comes in contact with. Place it in a gelatin
capsule or have your druggist prepare six or seven capsules containing
thirty grains each. Then administer with capsule gun. Insist on pure
Methylen Blue, accept no substitute. This treatment has proven very
effective in many localities where strict aseptic precautions were carried
out, as washing out the womb or any parts that the discharge of an aborting
cow may come in contact with and proper cleanliness and disinfection of
stables, etc. Cows should not be bred for several weeks following
abortion or as long as there is a discharge present.

Bulls should be treated in much the same way, as administering
Methylen Blue in same size doses for the same length of time as
that of the cow.

But in addition to this, use a one per cent solution of Carbolic Acid for
injecting into the bull's sheath, holding the end of the sheath while the
solution is being injected, until it is well distended; holding the opening
of the sheath allowing the solution to remain as long as convenient. Also,
wash belly, muzzle, etc., with a solution of the same strength.

COUGH
(Acute and Chronic)
As a cough is a symptom of various diseases, these in addition to the cough
should be treated.

KINDS OF COUGH: Many writers give several different varieties, but for the
sake of convenience I will divide them into two forms, namely: Acute and
Chronic.

CAUSE: Acute coughs are generally due to sudden exposure to cold,
drafts and are the forerunning symptom of a disease of the organs
of breathing.

Chronic Coughs are associated with, and are a result of sore throat, lung
fever, pleurisy, bronchitis, catarrh and tuberculosis.

TREATMENT: Under each disease, of which a cough is a symptom, I have also
prescribed to include its suppression. The following prescription is
reasonable in price, yet very effective in all forms of cough:
Tannic Acid, one ounce; Potassi Chlorate, four ounces; Potassi Nitrate,
four ounces. Powder well and mix with Black Strap Molasses, one pint,
placing container retaining the above in hot water, which assists in
dissolving.
When this is thoroughly mixed, add Pine Tar, one pint, and place one
tablespoonful well back on the tongue with a wooden paddle every three
or four hours, according to the severity of the cough.

Sometimes a liniment applied to the throat and windpipe has a good effect,
and I would recommend the following on account of its penetrating qualities:
Aqua Ammonia Fort., two ounces; Turpentine, two ounces; Raw Linseed Oil,
four ounces. Mix and apply twice daily, shaking the contents of the
bottle well before using.

COWPOX
(Variola)
CAUSE: Investigations lead us to believe that it is due to a protozoa.
So far, the true micro-organism has not been discovered. This disease
is very contagious and is transmitted by direct communication but
not through the air. Perhaps the most common way of transmitting the
disease is by the hands of the milker.

SYMPTOMS: A slight raise in the temperature, especially that of the udder
and teats.

They are red, swollen and tender and after three or four days small
pimples or pustules will appear on the teats about the size
of a pea.

The pimples or pustules become larger and within a few days may
attain the size of one-half inch in diameter.

At the end of the second week the pimples or pustules burst and discharge
an amber colored fluid leaving raw sores, which cause the animal to
suffer intensely when being milked. The supply of milk is also markedly
decreased in this condition.

PREVENTION: A person should not milk both healthy and diseased cows unless
the hands are thoroughly washed in a Carbolated Solution; the clothes
that are likely to come in contact with the udder, coat sleeves, etc.,
changed.

TREATMENT: It is advisable to give a physic as it has a very good effect
on the blood, such as Aloin, two drams, and Ginger, two drams,
which is easily prepared and administered by placing in capsule and
giving with capsule gun.

Also, the application of Zinc Ointment two or three times a day affords
immediate relief and causes the sores to heal rapidly. Good results are
also obtained by feeding food that is easily digested, as bran mashes,
steamed rolled oats and vegetables.

CUD CHEWING
(Physiology of Rumination)
The cow when eating grass or hay merely moistens it with saliva and
swallows, then it passes into the rumen or paunch which acts as a
storehouse or reservoir for food. After the paunch or rumen is filled,
the cow finds a comfortable place to stand or lie down and she regurgitates
it into the mouth by a contraction of the muscles of the walls
of the esophagus in small quantities or pellets from the rumen or paunch
back into the mouth and is there masticated. When it is chewed finely she
swallows and it passes into the second stomach and is there digested
for assimilation.

DIARRHOEA

CAUSE: Giving rich succulent foods after being fed on stimulating
diets for some time, and such a case may be a benefit to the animal instead
of an injury. Turnips, carrots, etc., especially if frozen slightly, are
apt to produce it. Also impure and stagnant water which acts as a
poison or some irritant in the food, as sand, clay, etc., or it may result
from excitement, as driving cattle or shipping cattle in cars when
not accustomed to it. Or, it may be the result of an overdose of irritating
medicines. Diarrhoea as a rule is not fatal. It is often an effort of
nature to relieve some disease, as poison in the blood. The easiest way to
get rid of it is by way of the bowels.

SYMPTOMS: It is easily detected. An animal passes large amounts of feces
which are of a liquid nature. At first the pulse is but little affected,
but after a day or two it becomes weak and slightly increased. If it
continues for a few days the pulse increases, the ears and legs get
colder than normal, there are slight gripping pains in some cases due
to slight irritation or perhaps to slight spasm of the intestines. These
pains may increase and result in inflammation of the bowels, especially if
the cause is due to stagnant water or irritating drugs.

TREATMENT: In many cases all you have to do is to change the food and
clothe the body according to the temperature. Do not let the animal
drink large quantities of water at one time. Give pure water in
small quantities, but often, and it may be necessary to give
medicines.
Endeavor to find out the cause and if due to some irritant in the
intestines, prepare Flaxseed tea by pouring a quart of boiling water
on a half pint of pure Flaxseed, allowing it to cool. Compel the
animal to drink it. This is very soothing to the bowels when irritated
and also beneficial in removing the irritant; in cases where the
Diarrhoea continues for some time, it is necessary to stop it by
administering Gum Catechu, two ounces; Protan, two ounces; Zinc
Sulphocarbolates, eight grains. Mix and make into eight capsules
and give one capsule every four hours with capsule gun. Keep the
animal as quiet as possible and feed non-irritating food that is
easily digested, as steamed barley or oats.

DEHORNING
Dehorning is not considered a cruelty as some people hold it, as
horns on cattle do not only add discomfort to themselves but add
to the owner's risk. It is much better, safer and I think more
humane to prevent the growth of horns on calves after they are three
or four days old by rubbing the elevations where the horns make
their appearance with a pencil of Caustic Potash after being moistened
with cold water. Repeat this application two or three times, which
is generally sufficient.
When dehorning cattle with clippers or saw, it is well to remove
about one-half inch of the flesh of the horn. This gives their head
a much better appearance after the horns are removed and healed.
When a horn is freshly amputated, apply Oil of Tar occasionally,
as it is an antiseptic and prevents infection and the annoyance of
flies. However, this should be performed during the season when the
flies are less numerous.
[Illustration: Photograph of cow.] CHAMPION JERSEY COW GREY
PORTIA.
Owned by Mrs. Nelle Fabyan, Geneva, Ill.

DROPSY
(Ascities)
CAUSE: Usually seen in old animals or cattle fed on poor food where
the blood becomes so poor, so to speak, that Dropsy follows, The
presence of worms frequently stimulates excessive secretions of
fluid, producing Dropsy.
SYMPTOMS: The abdomen is abnormally increased in size, flanks are
gaunt, paleness of the membranes of the mouth and eyes and a general
weakness.
Pressure with the hand on the abdominal walls will produce a
splashing, watery sound.
TREATMENT: The cause at first should be determined and the disease
treated accordingly. If due to worms, withhold all food for twenty-four
hours.He hoped to enjoy a quiet cigar and a book after luncheon, but Angelica
had another notion in her head. She went to the drawing room, opened doors
and windows, sat down to the piano, and began to sing--shakes, scales,
intervals, the whole exercise book through apparently from beginning to
end, and with such good will that her voice resounded throughout the
house. She had eaten nothing since breakfast so as to be able to produce
it with the desired effect, and there was no escape from the sound. But
poor Mr. Kilroy did not like to interfere with her industry as he had done
with her idleness. He was afraid he had shown too much impatience already
for one day, so he endured this further trial without exhibiting a sign of
suffering; but after an hour or two of it, he found himself sighing for
the undisturbed repose of his house in town, in a way that would have
satisfied Angelica had she known it. At dinner she looked very nice, but
she did not talk much. Conversation was not Mr. Kilroy's strong point, but
he was good at anecdotes, and now he racked his brains for something new
to tell her. She listened, however, without seeming to see the point of
some, and others caused her to stare at him in wide-eyed astonishment as
if shocked, which made him pause awkwardly to consider, half fearing to
find some impropriety which his coarser masculine mind had hitherto failed
to detect.

This caused the flow of reminiscences to languish, and presently to cease.
Then Angelica began to make bread pills. She set them in a row, and
flipped them off the table one by one deliberately when the servants left
the room. This amusement ended, she pulled flowers to pieces between the
courses, and hummed a little tune. Mr. Kilroy fidgeted. He felt as if he
had been saying "Don't!" ever since he came home, and he would not now
repeat it, but the self-repression disagreed with him, and so did his
dinner, dyspepsia having waited on appetite in lieu of digestion.

After dinner Angelica induced him to go with her to the drawing room, and
when she had got him comfortably seated, and had given him his coffee and
a paper, and just peace enough to let him fall into a pleasurably drowsy
state, accompanied by a strong disinclination to move, she began to pick
out the "Dead March" in "Saul" and kindred melodies with one finger on the
piano. Mr. Kilroy bore this infliction also; but when she brought a
cookery book and insisted on reading the recipes aloud, he went to bed in
self-defence.


CHAPTER II.


If the first and second days at home were failures so far as Mr. Kilroy's
comfort was concerned, the third was as bad, if not worse. It was a
continual case of "Please don't!" from morning till night, and Angelica
herself was touched at last by the kindly nature which could repeat the
remonstrance so often and so patiently; but all the same she did not
forbear. All that day, however, Mr. Kilroy made every allowance for her.
Angelica was thoughtless, very thoughtless; but it was only natural that
she should be so, considering her youth. On the next day, however, it did
occur to him that she was far too exacting, for she would not let him
leave her for a moment if she could help it; and on the next he was
sufficiently depressed to acknowledge that Angelica was trying; and if he
did not actually sigh for solitude, he felt, at all events, that it would
cost him no effort to resign himself to it if she should again prove
refractory and refuse to go back with him--and Angelica knew that he had
arrived at this state just as well as if he had told her; but still she
was far from content. She wanted him to go, and she wanted him to
stay--she did not know what she wanted. She teased him with as much zeal
as at first, but the amusement had ceased to distract her in the least
degree. It had become quite a business now, and she only kept it up
because she could think of nothing else to do. She was conscious of some
change in herself, conscious of a racking spirit of discontent which
tormented her, and of the fact that, in spite of her superabundant
vitality, she had lost all zest for anything. Outwardly, and also as a
matter of habit, when she was with anybody who might have noticed a
change, she maintained the dignity of demeanour which she had begun to
cultivate in society upon her marriage; but inwardly she raged--raged at
herself, at everybody, at everything; and this mood again was varied by
two others, one of unnatural quiescence, the other of feverish
restlessness. In the one she would sit for hours at a time, doing nothing,
not even pretending to occupy herself; in the other, she would wander
aimlessly up and down, would walk about the room, and look at the pictures
without seeing them, or go upstairs for nothing and come down again
without perceiving the folly of it all. And she was forever thinking.
Diavolo was at Sandhurst--if only he had been at Ilverthorpe! She might
have talked to him. She tried the effect of a letter full of allusions
which should have aroused his curiosity if not his sympathetic interest,
but he made no remark about these in his reply, and only wrote about
himself and his pranks, which seemed intolerably childish and stupid to
Angelica in her present mood; and about his objection to early rising and
regular hours, all of which she knew, so that the repetition only
irritated her. She considered Mr. Kilroy obtuse, and thought bitterly that
anyone with a scrap of intelligent interest in her must have noticed that
she had something on her mind, and won her confidence.

This reflection occurred to her in the drawing room one night after
dinner, and immediately afterward she caught him looking at her with a
grave intensity which should have puzzled her if it did not strike her as
significant of some deeper feeling than that to which the carnal
admiration for her person which she expected and despised, would have
given rise; but she was too self-absorbed to be more observant than she
gave him the credit of being.

The result of Mr. Kilroy's observation was an effort to take her out of
herself. He began by asking her to play to him. Not very graciously, she
got out a violin, remarking that she was sorry it was not her best one.

"Where is your best one?" he asked.

"It is not at home," she answered. "I left it with Israfil, my fair-haired
friend, you know." She spoke slowly, holding the end of the violin, and
tightening the strings as she did so, the effort causing her to compress
her lips so that the words were uttered disjointedly; and as she finished
speaking, she raised the instrument to her shoulder and her eyes to Mr.
Kilroy's face, into which she gazed intently as she drew her bow across
the strings, testing them as to whether they were in tune or not, and
seeming rather to listen than to look, as she did so. Mr. Kilroy, still
quietly observing her, noticed that her equanimity had been suddenly
restored; but whether it was the mellow tones of her violin or some happy
thought that had released the tension he could not tell. It was as much
relief, however, to him to see her brighten, as it was to her to feel when
she answered him that a great weight had been lifted from her mind, and
she would now be able "to talk it out," this trouble that oppressed her,
unrestrainedly, as was natural to her.

When Mr. Kilroy accepted the terms upon which she proposed to marry him,
namely, that he should let her do as she liked, she had voluntarily
promised to tell him everything she did, and she had kept her word as was
her wont, telling him the exact truth as on this occasion, but mixing it
up with so many romances that he never knew which was which. He was in
town when she first met the Tenor, but when he returned, she told him all
that had happened, and continued the story from time to time as the
various episodes occurred, making it extremely interesting, and also
almost picturesque. Mr. Kilroy knew the Tenor by reputation, of course,
and was much entertained by what he believed to be the romance which
Angelica was weaving about his interesting personality. He suggested that
she should write it just as she told it. "I have not seen anything like it
anywhere," he said; "nothing half so lifelike."

"Oh, but then, you see, this is all _true_" she gravely insisted.

"Oh, of course," he answered, smiling. And now when she answered that she
had left her best violin with the Tenor, it reminded him: "By the by,
yes," he said. "How does the story progress? I was thinking about it in
the train on my way home, but I forgot to ask you--other things have put
it out of my head since I arrived."

"And out of mine, too," said Angelica thoughtfully--"at least I forgot to
tell you--which is extraordinary, by the way, for matters are now so
complicated between us that I can think of nothing else. It will be quite
a relief to discuss the subject with you."

She drew up a little chair and sat down opposite to him, with her violin
across her knee, and began immediately, and with great earnestness,
looking up at him as she spoke. She described all that had happened on
that last sad occasion minutely--the row down the river, the moonrise, the
music, the accident, the rescue, the discovery, and its effect upon the
Tenor; and all with her accustomed picturesqueness, speaking in the first
person singular, and with such force and fluency that Mr. Kilroy was
completely carried away, and declared, as on previous occasions, that she
set the whole thing before him so vividly he found it impossible not to
believe every word of it.

"And what are you going to do now?" he asked with his indulgent smile,
when she had told him all that there was to tell at present. "You cannot
end it there, you know, it would be such a lame conclusion."

"That was just what I thought," she answered, "and I wanted to ask you. As
a man of the world, what would you advise me to do?"

"Well," he began--then he rose and held out his hand to help her up from
her little chair. "Will you come out and sit on the terrace," he said,
"and allow me to smoke? The night is warm."

Angelica nodded, and preceded him through one of the open windows.

"Well," Mr. Kilroy resumed, when he had lit his cigar, and settled himself
in a cane chair comfortably, with Angelica in another opposite. "What a
lovely night it is after the rain yesterday"--this by way of parenthesis.
"Rather close, though," he observed, and then he returned to the subject.
"I suppose you mean that you do not want it to be all over between you?"

"_Between the Tenor and the Boy_," she corrected. "The whole charm of
the acquaintance, don't you see, for me, consisted in that footing--I
don't know how to express it, but perhaps you can grasp what I mean."

Mr. Kilroy reflected. "I am afraid," he said at last, "that footing cannot
be resumed. The influences of sex, once the difference is recognized, are
involuntary. But, if he has no objection, I do not see why you should not
be friends, and intimate friends too; and with that sort of man you might
make some advance, especially as you are entirely in the wrong. I am not
saying, you know, that this would be the proper thing to do as a rule; but
here are exceptional circumstances, and here is an exceptional man."

"Now, that is significant," said Angelica, jeering. "Society is so
demoralized that if a man is caught conducting himself with decency and
honour on all occasions when a woman is in question, you involuntarily
exclaim that he is an exceptional man!"

Mr. Kilroy smoked on in silence for some time with his eyes fixed on the
quiet stars. His attitude expressed nothing but extreme quiescence, yet
Angelica felt reproved.

"Don't snub me, Daddy," she exclaimed at last. "I came to you in my
difficulty, and you do not seem to care."

Mr. Kilroy looked at his cigar, and flicked the ash from the end of it.

"Tell me how to get out of this horrid dilemma," Angelica pursued. "I
shall never know a moment's peace until we have resumed our acquaintance
on a different footing, and I have been able to make him some reparation."

"Ah--reparation?" said Mr. Kilroy dubiously.

"Do you think it is impossible?" Angelica demanded.

"Not impossible, perhaps, but very difficult," he answered. "Really,
Angelica," he broke off laughingly, "I quite forget every now and again
that we are romancing. You must write this story for me.".

"We are _not_ romancing," she said impatiently, "and I couldn't write
it, it is too painful. Besides, we don't seem to get any further."

"Let me see where we were?" Mr. Kilroy replied, humouring her
good-naturedly. "It is a pity you cannot unmarry yourself. You see, being
married complicates matters to a much greater extent than if you had been
single. A girl might, under certain circumstances, be forgiven for an
escapade of the kind, but when a married woman does such a thing it is
very different. Still, if you can get well out of it, of course the
difficulty will make the _dénouement_ all the more interesting."

"But I don't see how I am to get well out of it--unless you will go to him
yourself, and tell him you know the whole story, and do whatever your tact
and goodness suggest to set the matter right." She bent forward with her
arms folded on her lap, looking up at him eagerly as she spoke, and
beating a "devil's tattoo," with her slender feet, on the ground
impatiently the while.

"No," he answered deliberately, "that would not be natural. You see,
either you must be objectionable or your husband must; and upon the whole
I think you had better sacrifice the husband, otherwise you lose your
readers' sympathy."

"Make _you_ objectionable, Daddy!" Angelica exclaimed. "The thing is
not to be done! I could never have asked you to marry me if you had been
objectionable. And I don't see why I should be so either--entirely, you
know. If I had been quite horrid, I should not have appreciated you, and
the Tenor and Uncle Dawne and Dr. Galbraith--oh, dear! Why is it, when
good men are so scarce, that I should know so many, and yet be tormented
with the further knowledge that you are all exceptional, and crime and
misery continue because it is so? What is the use of knowing when one can
do nothing?"

Again Mr. Kilroy looked up at the quiet stars; but Angelica gave him no
time to reflect.

"I don't see why I should be severely consistent," she said. "Let me be a
mixture--not a foul mixture, but one of those which eventually result in
something agreeable, after going through a period of fermentation, during
which they throw up an unpleasant scum that has to be removed."

"That would do," Mr. Kilroy responded gravely.

"But just now," Angelica resumed, "it seems as if I should be obliged to
let matters take their course and do nothing, which is intolerable."

"Oh, but you must do something," Mr. Kilroy decided; "and the first thing
will be to go to him."

"Go to him!" she ejaculated.

"Well, yes," he rejoined. "Naturally you will feel it. Now that you are no
longer _The Boy_ made courageous by his unsuspicious confidence--I
mean the Tenor's--it is quite proper for you to be shy and ashamed of
yourself. As a woman, of course, you are not wanting in modesty. But there
is no help for it; he would never come to you, so you must go to him. I
quite think that you owe him any reparation you can make. And, knowing the
sort of man he is--you have made his character well known in the place,
have you not?"

Angelica nodded. "Well, then, a visit from a lady of your rank will create
no scandal, nor even cause any surprise, I should think, if you go quite
openly; for you are known to be a musician, and might therefore reasonably
be supposed to have business with one of the profession. I wish,
by-the-bye, you had made him an ugly man, with kind eyes, you know; it
would have been more original, I think. But you will find out who he is,
of course?"

"No. I hardly think so." Angelica answered. "But you would advise me to go
to him?"--this by way of bringing him back to the subject.

"Yes"--with a vigorous attempt to draw his cigar to life again, it having
gone all but out--"I should advise you to go to him boldly, by day, of
course; and just make him forgive you. Insist on it; you will find he
cannot resist you. Then you will start afresh on a new footing as you
wish, and the whole thing will end happily."

"You forget though, he did forgive me."

"There are various kinds of forgiveness," Mr. Kilroy replied. "There is
the forgiveness that washes its hands of the culprit and refuses to be
further troubled on his behalf--the least estimable form of forgiveness;
and there is that which proves itself sincere by the effort which is
afterward made to help the penitent, that is the kind of forgiveness you
should try to secure."

"But somehow it still seems unfinished," Angelica grumbled.

"If you had been single now," Mr. Kilroy suggested, "you would, in the
natural course of events, have married the Tenor."

"Oh, no!" Angelica vigorously interposed. "I should never have wanted to
marry him. Can't I make you understand? The side of my nature which I
turned to him as _The Boy_ is the only one he has touched, and I
could never care for him in any other relation."

"Well, I don't know," Mr. Kilroy observed thoughtfully. "It may be so, of
course, but it is unusual."

"And so am I unusual," Angelica answered quickly; "but there will be
plenty more like me by and by. The use of the springs is said to be beyond
estimate.

They may be employed to operate passenger elevators, the springs being
wound by a hand crank. It is understood that the French Government has
applied for them for running small yachts for harbor service. Among the
advantages claimed for this motor are its cheapness in first cost and in
operating expenses. It is estimated that an engine of twenty-five horse
power will be required at the station to wind the springs. If there be
one at each end of the line, the cost for fuel, engineer, and interest
will not exceed $100 per week. This will answer for fifty or any additional
number of cars. The company claims that by using twelve springs, each
150 feet in length, an ordinary street car can be driven about twenty
miles.--_Phil. Inquirer_

.

* * * * *

CASTING CHILLED CAR WHEELS.

We show herewith the method employed by the Baltimore Car Wheel Company
in casting chilled wheels to prevent tread defects. The ordinary mode
of pouring from the ladle into the hub part of the mould, and then
letting the metal overpour down the brackets to the chill, produces cold
shot, seams, etc.

In the arrangement here shown the hub core, A, has a concave top, B, and
the core seat, C, is convex, its center part being lower than the perimeter
of the top of the core.

Figs. 3, 4, show the core, A, in the side elevation and in plain. Fig. 2 is
a core point forming a space to connect the receiving chamber, E, above,
with the mould by passageways, D D, formed in the side of the top
of the core. The combined area of these passageways being less than that
of the conduit, F, from the receiving chamber, the metal is skimmed of
impurities, and the latter are retained in the receiving chamber, E.

The entering metal flows first to the lower hub part at H H, thence by
the sprue-ways, G G, to the lower rim part at J J, being again skimmed at
the mouth of the sprue-ways. Thus the rim fills as rapidly as the hub, and
the metal is of a uniform and high temperature when it reaches the
chill.

[Illustration: CASTING OF CAR WHEELS.]
In the wheels made by this firm, every alternate rib is connected with the
rim, and runs off to nothing near the hub; the intermediate ribs are
attached to the hub, and diminish in width toward the rim.--_Jour.
Railway App._

* * * * *

ELECTRICITY AND PRESTIDIGITATION.

The wonderful ease with which electricity adapts itself to the production
of mechanical, calorific, and luminious effects at a distance,
long ago gave rise to the idea of applying it to certain curious
and amusing effects that simple minds willingly style _supernatural_,
because of their powerlessness to find a satisfactory explanation
of them.

[Illustration: FIG. 1.--RAPPING AND TALKING TABLE. ]
Who has not seen, of old, Robert Houdin's heavy chest and Robert Houdin's
magic drum? These two curious experiments are, as well known, founded
upon the properties of electro-magnets.

At present we shall make known two other arrangements, which are
based upon the same action, and which, presenting old experiments
under a new form, rejuvenate them by giving them another interest.

The first apparatus (Fig. 1), which presents the appearance of an ordinary
round center table, permits of reproducing at will the "spirit
rappings" and sepulchral voice experiments.

The table support contains a Leclanche pile, of compact form, carefully
hidden in the part that connects the three legs. The top of the table is
in two parts, the lower of which is hollow, and the upper forms a cover
three or four millimeters in thickness. In the center of the hollow part
is placed a vertical electro-magnet, one of the wires of which
communicates with one of the poles of the pile, and the other with
a flat metallic circle glued to the cover of the table.

Beneath this circle, and at a slight distance from it, there is a
toothed circle, F, connected with the other pole of the pile. When the
table is pressed lightly upon, the cover bends and the flat circle
touches the toothed one, closes the circuit of the pile upon the
electro-magnet, which latter attracts its armature and produces a
sharp blow. On raising the hand, the cover takes its initial position,
breaks the circuit anew, and produces another sharp blow.And having spoken she sauntered out on to the terrace
with a listless step, and from thence she wandered off into the gardens,
where the scent of roses set her thinking, thinking, thinking. She sought
to change the direction of her thoughts, but vainly; they would go on in
spite of her, and they were always busy with the same subject, always
working at the one idea. Israfil! Israfil! There was nobody like him, and
how badly she had treated him, and how good he had always been to her, and
how could she go on day after day like this with no hope of ever seeing
him again in the old delightful intimate way? and oh! if she had not done
this! and oh! if she had not done that! It might all have been so
different if only _she_ had been different; but now how could it come
right? A hopeless, hopeless, hopeless, case. She had lost his respect
forever. And not to be respected! A woman and not respected!

She went down to the lodge gate where they had parted, and remembered the
chill misery of the moment, the gray morning light, the pelting rain.
Ah--with a sudden pang--she only thought of it now. How wet he must have
been! He had lent her his one umbrella, and she had kept it; she had it
still; she had allowed him to walk back in the rain without wrap or
protection, of any kind.

And now she came to think of it, he had never changed his things after he
had rescued her. He never did think of himself--the most selfless man
alive; and she, alas! had never thought of him--never considered his
comfort in anything. Oh, remorse! If only she could have those times all
over again, or even one of those times so recklessly misspent! He might
have lost his life through that wetting. Or what if he lost his voice?
Singers have notoriously delicate throats. But happily nothing so untoward
had resulted; she was saved the blame of a crowning disaster--she knew,
because she had heard of him going to the cathedral as usual; she had
taken the trouble to inquire, not daring to go herself, and she had seen
in that day's paper that he would sing the anthem to-morrow, so evidently
he had not suffered, which was some comfort--and yet--how could he go to
the cathedral every day and sing as usual, just as if nothing had
happened? It might be fortitude, but, considering the circumstances, it
was far more likely to be indifference. And so she continued to torment
herself; thinking, always thinking, without any power to stop.

The next day Mr. Kilroy returned to town alone. He had only once again
alluded to his wish that she should accompany him, and that he did quite
casually, for she had succeeded in making him content that she should
refuse. She had convinced him that her exuberant spirits were altogether
too much for him. He had not had an hour's peace since his arrival, though
the place would have held a regiment comfortably; and what would it be if
he shut her up in London, in a confined space comparatively speaking, and
against her will too? He left by an early afternoon train, and she drove
to the station with him to see him off. She had enjoyed his visit very
much--so she said--especially the last part of it, when she had surpassed
herself in ingenious devices to exact attention. All that, while it
lasted, really had distracted her; but the occupation was not
happiness--far from it! It was a sort of intoxicant rather, which made her
oblivious for the moment of her discontent. At every pause, however,
remorse possessed her, remorse for the past; yet it never occurred to her
that her present misdemeanours would be past in time, and might also
entail consequences which would in turn come to be causes of regret.

But, now, when she had succeeded in getting rid of Mr. Kilroy, she was
sorry. She stood on the platform watching the train until it was out of
sight, and then she returned to her carriage with a distinct feeling of
loss and pain. What should she do with the rest of the day? She even
thought of the next, and the next, and the next; a long vista of weary
days, through which she must live alone and to no purpose, a waste of
life, a waste of life--a barren waste, a land of sand and thorns. She
wished she was a child again playing pranks with Diavolo; and she also
wished that she had never played pranks, since it was so hard to break
herself of the habit; yet she enjoyed them still, and assured herself that
she was only discontented now because she had absolutely nobody left to
torment. Then she tried to imagine what it would be to have Diavolo with
her in her present mood, and instantly a squall of conflicting emotions
burst in her breast, angry emotions for the most part, because he was no
longer with her in either sense of the word, because he was indifferent to
all that concerned her inmost soul, and was content to live like a lady
himself, a trivial idle life, the chief business of which was pleasure,
unremunerative pleasure, upon which he would have had her expend her
highest faculties in return for what? Admiring glances at herself--and her
gowns _perhaps_!

"But what should she do with the rest of the day?" Her handsome horses
were prancing through Morningquest as she asked herself the question; and
there was a little milliner on the footway looking up with kindly envy at
the lady no older than herself, sitting alone in her splendid carriage
with her coachman and footman and _everything_--nothing to do
included, very much included, being, in fact, the principal item.

"I should be helping her," thought Angelica. "She is ill-fed, overworked,
and weakly, while I am pampered and strong; but there is no rational way
for me to do it. If I took her home with me and kept her in luxurious
idleness for the rest of her days, as I could very well afford to do, I
should only have dragged her down from the dignity of her own honest
exertions into the slough of self-indulgence in which I find myself, and
made bad worse. _She_ should have more and _I_ should have less;
but how to arrive at that? Isolated efforts seem to be abortive--yet--"
she stopped the carriage, and looked back. The girl had disappeared. She
desired the coachman to return, and kept him driving up and down some time
in the hope of finding her, but the girl was nowhere to be seen, nor could
they trace her upon inquiry. "Another opportunity lost," thought Angelica.
"A few pounds in her pocket would have been a few weeks' rest for her, a
few good meals, a few innocent pleasures--she would have been strengthened
and refreshed; and I should have been the better too for the recollection
of a good deed done."

The carriage had pulled up close to the curb, and the footman stood at the
door waiting for orders.

"What is there to do?" thought Angelica. "Where shall I go? Not home. The
house is empty. Calls? I might as well waste time in that way as any
other." She gave the order, and passed the next two hours in making calls.

Toward the end of the afternoon, she found herself within about a mile of
Hamilton House, and determined to go and see her mother. There was no real
confidence between them, but Lady Adeline's presence was soothing, and
Angelica thought she would just like to go and sit in the same room with
her, have tea there, and not be worried to talk. These peaceful intentions
were frustrated, however, by the presence of some visitors who were there
when she arrived, and of others who came pouring in afterward in such
numbers, that it seemed as if the whole neighbourhood meant to call that
afternoon. Mr. Hamilton-Wells was making tea, and talking as usual with
extreme precision. Angelica found him seated at a small but solid black
ebony table, with a massive silver tea-service before him. He folded his
hands when she entered, and, without rising, awaited the erratic kiss
which it was her habit to deposit somewhere about his head when she met
him; which ceremony concluded, he gravely poured her out a cup of tea,
with sugar _and_ milk, but _no_ cream, as he observed; and then
he peeped into the teapot, and proceeded to fill it up from the great urn
which was bubbling and boiling in front of him. He always made tea in his
own house; it was a fad of his, and the more people he had to make it for
the better pleased he was. A servant was stationed at his elbow, whose
duty it was to place the cups as his master filled them on a silver salver
held by another servant, who took them to offer to the visitors who were
seated about the room. Angelica knew the ceremony well, and slipped away
into a corner, as soon as she could escape from her father's punctilious
inquiries about her own health and her husband's; and there she became
wedged by degrees, as the room grew gradually crowded. Beside her was a
mirror, in which she could see all who arrived and all that happened, and
involuntarily she became a silent spectator, the medium of the mirror
imparting a curious unreality to the scene, which invested it with all the
charm of a dream; and, as in a dream, she looked and listened, while
clearly, beneath the main current of conversation, and unbroken by the
restless change and motion of the people, her own thoughts flowed on
consciously and continuously. Half turned from the rest of the room, she
sat at a table, listlessly turning the leaves of an album, at which she
glanced when she was not looking into the mirror.

She saw the party from Morne enter the room--Aunt Fulda and her eternal
calm! She looked just the same in the market-place at Morningquest, that
unlucky night when the Tenor met the Boy. She was always the same. Is it
human to be always the same?

"Who is that lady?" Angelica heard a girl ask of a benevolent looking
elderly clergyman who was standing with his back to her. "Oh, that is Lady
Fulda Guthrie, the youngest daughter of the Duke of Morningquest," he
replied. 'She is a Roman Catholic, a pervert as we say, but still a very
noble woman. Religious, too, in spite of the errors of Rome, one must
confess it. A pity she ever left us, a great pity--but of course
_her_ loss as well as ours. We require such women now, though; but
somehow we do not keep them. And I cannot think why."

"Too cold," Angelica's thoughts ran on. "Hollow, shallow,
inconsistent--loveless. Catholicism equals a modern refinement of pagan
principles with all the old deities on their best behaviour thrown in;
while Protestantism is an ecclesiastical system founded on fetish--"

"You are a stranger in the neighbourhood?" the benevolent old clergyman
was saying. "Only on a visit? Ah! then of course you don't know. They are
a remarkable family, somewhat eccentric. Ideala, as they call her, is no
relation, only an intimate friend of Lady Claudia Beaumont's, and of the
Marquis of Dawne. The three are usually together. The New Order is an
outcome of their ideas, a sort of feminine _vehmgericht_ so well as I
can make out. But no good can come out of that kind of thing, and I trust
as you are a very young lady--"

"Not so young--I am twenty-two."

"Indeed!" with a smile and a bow--"I should not have thought you more than
nineteen. But twenty-two is not a great age either! and I do hope you will
not be drawn into that set. They are sadly misguided. The ladies scoff at
the wisdom of men, look for inconsistencies, and _laugh_ at
them--actually! It is very bad taste, you know; and they call it an
impertinence for us to presume to legislate exclusively in matters which
specially concern their sex, and also object to the interference of the
Church, as being a distinctly masculine organization, in the regulation of
their lives. Men, they declare, have always said that they do not
understand women, and it is of course the height of folly for them to
presume to express opinions upon a subject they do not understand. Now,
can anything be more absurd? And it is dangerous besides--absolutely
dangerous."

"Yet I hear that they are very good women," the girl ventured, and
Angelica thought that she detected a note of derision, levelled at the
clerical exponent of these reprehensible ideas, beneath the demure remark.

"Oh, saintlike!" he answered cordially; "but still to blame. Misguided,
you know, so I venture to warn you. How can they presume to reject proper
direction? Their pride is excessive, but the Church will receive them, and
extend her benefits to them still if only they will humble themselves--"
Conversation over the room entered upon a _crescendo_ passage at this
moment, and Angelica lost the rest of the sentence in the general
outburst.

A new voice presently claimed her attention. The speaker was a young man
addressing another young man, and both had their backs turned to her, and
were looking hard at a portrait of herself hung so low on the wall that
they had to stoop to look into it.

"Painted by a good man," were the first words she heard.

"Rather fine face; who is it?"

"Daughter of the house, don't you know? Old duke's granddaughter. Married
old Kilroy of Ilverthorpe."

"Ah! Then that was done some time ago, I expect."

"Oh, dear, no! Only last year. It was exhibited in the last Academy."

"Then she's still young?" He peered into the portrait once more with an
evident increase of interest. "She looks as if she might be larky."

"Can't make her out, on my word," was the response, delivered in a tone of
strong disapproval. "Married to an elderly chap--not old exactly, but a
good twenty years older than herself; who gives her her head to an
unlimited extent, yet she says she doesn't care to have a lot of men
bothering about, and, by Jove! she acts as if she meant it. It's beastly
unnatural, you know."

"Well, I must say I like a woman to be a woman," the other rejoined,
surveying the portrait from this new point of view. "But that's the way
with all that Guthrie lot--and you know Dawne himself is _pi_!"--so
what can you expect of the rest? the tone implied.

Suddenly Angelica felt her face flush. One of her ungovernable fits of
fury was upon her. She sprang to her feet, upsetting her chair with a
crash, and turned upon the two young men, who, recognizing her, changed
colour and countenance, and shrank back apologetically.

Her uncle, seeing something wrong, had hurried across the room to her with
anxious eyes.

"Who are those people?" she asked him, indicating the two young men.

Lord Dawne, always all courtesy and consideration himself, was shocked by
her tone.

"I think you have met Captain Leicester before," he gravely reminded her.
"Let me introduce--"

"No, for Heaven's sake!" Angelica broke forth, glaring angrily at the
offenders.

She walked away abruptly with the words on her lips, leaving Lord Dawne to
settle with the delinquents as he thought fit. Her mother, who was seated
at the farther end of the room talking to a charming-looking old lady
Angelica did not know, stretched out a hand to her as she approached, and
drew her to a seat beside her; and instantly Angelica felt herself in
another moral atmosphere.

"This is my daughter, Mrs. Kilroy of Ilverthorpe," Lady Adeline said to
the old lady, then added smiling: "There are so many Mrs. Kilroys in this
neighbourhood, one is obliged to specify. Angelica, dear, Mrs. Power."

Angelica bowed, and then leaned back in her chair so that she might not
have to join in the conversation, but she listened in an absent sort of
way, feeling soothed the while by the tone of refinement, of earnestness
and sincerity, in which every word was uttered: "No, I am sure," Lady
Adeline was saying, "I am sure no one who can judge would mistake that
lineless calm for a device to cover all emotion."

"I never have done so myself," Mrs. Power rejoined, "although I do not
know her history. But I should say, judging merely from observation, that
the fineness of her countenance, which consists more in the expression of
it than in either form or feature, though both are good, is the result of
long self-repression, self-denial, and stern discipline, the evidence of a
true and beautiful soul, and of a noble mind at rest after some heavy
sorrow, or some great temptation, which, being resisted, has proved a
blessing and a source of strength."

Angelica wondered of whom they were speaking, and, following the
direction, of their eyes, met those of Ideala fixed a little sadly, a
little wistfully, upon herself. Young people, as they grow up, find their
own life's history so absorbingly interesting that they think little of
what may have happened, or may be happening, to those whom they have
always known as "grown up"; and it had never occurred to Angelica that any
one of the placid, gentle-mannered women among whom she had always lived,
in contrast to them herself as a comet is to the fixed stars, had ever
experienced any extremes of emotion. Now, however, she felt as if her eyes
had been suddenly opened, and she looked with a new interest at her old
familiar friends, and wondered, her mind busy for the moment with what she
had just heard. She could not keep it there, however; involuntarily it
slipped away--back--back to that first attempt of hers to see the hidden
wheels of life go round--the market-place, the Tenor.

Suddenly she felt as if she must suffocate if she did not get out into the
air, and rising quickly she stole from the room, and out of the house
unobserved. But the babble of voices seemed to pursue her. She stood for a
moment on the steps and felt as if the people were all preparing to stream
out of the drawing room after her, to surround her, and keep up the
distracting buzz in her ears by their idle inconsequent talk. Their horses
were prancing about the drive; their empty carriages, with cushions awry
and wraps flung untidily down on the seats, or even hanging over the doors
and grazing the dusty wheels, gave her a sense of disorder and discomfort
from which she felt she must fly.

"Where to, ma'am, please?" the footman asked, touching his hat when he had
closed the door.

"Fountain Towers," Angelica answered. She would go and see Dr. Galbraith.

When the carriage drew up under the porch at Fountain Towers, she sat some
time as if unaware of the fact; but the footman's patient face as he
waited with his hand on the handle of the door, ready to help her to
descend, recalled her.

She walked into the house as she had always been accustomed to do, and
instantly thoughts of Diavolo came crowding. Why had Diavolo ceased to be
all in all to her? She asked herself the question through a mist of tears
which gathered in her eyes, but did not fall, and at the same moment her
busy mind took note of the singular appearance of a statue on the
staircase as she beheld it in blurred outline through her bedimmed vision.

She found Dr. Galbraith in the library sitting at his writing table. The
door was half open, so she entered without knocking, and walked up to him.

He turned at the sound of her step, rose smiling, and held out his hand
when he saw who it was.

This is the product of the linden or basswood, of all the trees in our
forest the one most beloved by the bees.
Melissa, the goddess of honey, has placed her seal upon this tree.

The wild swarms in the woods frequently reap a choice harvest from
it.

I have seen a mountain-side thickly studded with it, its straight, tall,
smooth, light gray shaft carrying its deep green crown far aloft, like
the tulip-tree or the maple.

In some of the Northwestern States there are large forests of it, and the
amount of honey reported stored by strong swarms in this section during the
time the tree is in bloom is quite incredible.

As a shade and ornamental tree the linden is fully equal to the
maple, and, if it were as extensively planted and cared for, our
supplies of virgin honey would be greatly increased.

The famous honey of Lithuania in Russia is the product of the
linden.

It is a homely old stanza current among bee folk that
"A swarm of bees in May Is worth a load of hay; A swarm of bees in
June Is worth a silver spoon; But a swarm in July Is not worth a
fly."

A swarm in May is indeed a treasure; it is, like an April baby, sure to
thrive, and will very likely itself send out a swarm a month or
two later: but a swarm in July is not to be despised; it will store
no clover or linden honey for the "grand seignior and the ladies
of his seraglio," but plenty of the rank and wholesome poor man's
nectar, the sun-tanned product of the plebeian buckwheat.

Buckwheat honey is the black sheep in this white flock, but there is
spirit and character in it.

It lays hold of the taste in no equivocal manner, especially when at a winter
breakfast it meets its fellow, the russet buckwheat cake.
Bread with honey to cover it from the same stalk is double good
fortune.

It is not black, either, but nut-brown, and belongs to the same class of goods
as Herrick's
"Nut-brown mirth and russet wit."

How the bees love it, and they bring the delicious odor of the blooming
plant to the hive with them, so that in the moist warm twilight the
apiary is redolent with the perfume of buckwheat.

Yet evidently it is not the perfume of any flower that attracts the bees;
they pay no attention to the sweet-scented lilac, or to heliotrope, but
work upon sumach, silkweed, and the hateful snapdragon.
In September they are hard pressed, and do well if they pick up enough
sweet to pay the running expenses of their establishment. The purple
asters and the goldenrod are about all that remain to them.

Bees will go three or four miles in quest of honey, but it is a
great advantage to move the hive near the good pasturage, as has
been the custom from the earliest times in the Old World.

Some enterprising person, taking a hint perhaps from the ancient Egyptians,
who had floating apiaries on the Nile, has tried the experiment of
floating several hundred colonies north on the Mississippi, starting from
New Orleans and following the opening season up, thus realizing a
sort of perpetual May or June, the chief attraction being the
blossoms of the river willow, which yield honey of rare excellence.

Some of the bees were no doubt left behind, but the amount of virgin
honey secured must have been very great. In September they should have begun
the return trip, following the retreating summer south.

It is the making of wax that costs with the bee. As with the poet, the
form, the receptacle, gives him more trouble than the sweet that fills
it, though, to be sure, there is always more or less empty comb in both
cases. The honey he can have for the gathering, but the wax he must make
himself,--must evolve from his own inner consciousness. When wax is to be
made, the wax-makers fill themselves with honey and retire into their
chamber for private meditation; it is like some solemn religious rite:
they take hold of hands, or hook themselves together in long lines
that hang in festoons from the top of the hive, and wait for the miracle
to transpire.

After about twenty-four hours their patience is rewarded, the honey
is turned into wax, minute scales of which are secreted from between the
rings of the abdomen of each bee; this is taken off and from it
the comb is built up. It is calculated that about twenty-five pounds of
honey are used in elaborating one pound of comb, to say nothing of the time
that is lost. Hence the importance, in an economical point of view, of
a recent device by which the honey is extracted and the comb returned
intact to the bees. But honey without the comb is the perfume without the
rose,--it is sweet merely, and soon degenerates into candy. Half the
delectableness is in breaking down these frail and exquisite walls
yourself, and tasting the nectar before it has lost its freshness by
contact with the air. Then the comb is a sort of shield or foil that
prevents the tongue from being overwhelmed by the first shock of the
sweet.

The drones have the least enviable time of it. Their foothold in the hive
is very precarious. They look like the giants, the lords of the swarm,
but they are really the tools. Their loud, threatening hum has no sting
to back it up, and their size and noise make them only the more conspicuous
marks for the birds. They are all candidates for the favors of the queen,
a fatal felicity that is vouchsafed to but one.
Fatal, I say, for it is a singular fact in the history of bees that the
fecundation of the queen costs the male his life.

Yet day after day the drones go forth, threading the mazes of the
air in hopes of meeting her whom to meet is death.

The queen only leaves the hive once, except when she leads away the
swarm, and as she makes no appointment with the male, but wanders
here and there, drones enough are provided to meet all the contingencies
of the case.

One advantage, at least, results from this system of things: there is no
incontinence among the males in this republic!

Toward the close of the season, say in July or August, the fiat goes forth
that the drones must die; there is no further use for them. Then the
poor creatures, how they are huddled and hustled about, trying to hide in
corners and byways! There is no loud, defiant humming now, but abject
fear seizes them. They cower like hunted criminals. I have seen a dozen
or more of them wedge themselves into a small space between the
glass and the comb, where the bees could not get hold of them, or where
they seemed to be overlooked in the general slaughter. They will also
crawl outside and hide under the edges of the hive. But sooner or later
they are all killed or kicked out. The drone makes no resistance, except
to pull back and try to get away; but (putting yourself in his place) with
one bee a-hold of your collar or the hair of your head, and another a-hold
of each arm or leg, and still another feeling for your waistbands
with his sting, the odds are greatly against you.

It is a singular fact, also, that the queen is made, not born. If the
entire population of Spain or Great Britain were the offspring of
one mother, it might be found necessary to hit upon some device by which
a royal baby could be manufactured out of an ordinary one, or else give up
the fashion of royalty. All the bees in the hive have a common parentage,
and the queen and the worker are the same in the egg and in the chick; the
patent of royalty is in the cell and in the food; the cell being much
larger, and the food a peculiar stimulating kind of jelly.

In certain contingencies, such as the loss of the queen with no eggs in the
royal cells, the workers take the larva of an ordinary bee, enlarge
the cell by taking in the two adjoining ones, and nurse it and stuff
it and coddle it, till at the end of sixteen days it comes out a
queen.

But ordinarily, in the natural course of events, the young queen is kept
a prisoner in her cell till the old queen has left with the swarm. Later
on, the unhatched queen is guarded against the reigning queen, who only
wants an opportunity to murder every royal scion in the hive.

At this time both the queens, the one a prisoner and the other at large,
pipe defiance at each other, a shrill, fine, trumpet-like note that any ear
will at once recognize. This challenge, not being allowed to be accepted
by either party, is followed, in a day or two, by the abdication of the
reigning queen; she leads out the swarm, and her successor is liberated
by her keepers, who, in her time, abdicates in favor of the next
younger. When the bees have decided that no more swarms can issue, the
reigning queen is allowed to use her stiletto upon her unhatched sisters.
Cases have been known where two queens issued at the same time, when a
mortal combat ensued, encouraged by the workers, who formed a ring about
them, but showed no preference, and recognized the victor as the lawful
sovereign. For these and many other curious facts we are indebted to the
blind Huber.

It is worthy of note that the position of the queen cells is always
vertical, while that of the drones and workers is horizontal;
majesty stands on its head, which fact may be a part of the secret.

The notion has always very generally prevailed that the queen of the
bees is an absolute ruler, and issues her royal orders to willing
subjects. Hence Napoleon the First sprinkled the symbolic bees over the
imperial mantle that bore the arms of his dynasty; and in the country of
the Pharaohs the bee was used as the emblem of a people sweetly submissive
to the orders of its king. But the fact is, a swarm of bees is an absolute
democracy, and kings and despots can find no warrant in their example. The
power and authority are entirely vested in the great mass, the workers.
They furnish all the brains and foresight of the colony, and administer
its affairs. Their word is law, and both king and queen must obey. They
regulate the swarming, and give the signal for the swarm to issue from the
hive; they select and make ready the tree in the woods and conduct the
queen to it.

The peculiar office and sacredness of the queen consists in the fact that
she is the mother of the swarm, and the bees love and cherish her as a
mother and not as a sovereign. She is the sole female bee in the hive,
and the swarm clings to her because she is their life. Deprived of their
queen, and of all brood from which to rear one, the swarm loses all heart
and soon dies, though there be an abundance of honey in the hive.

The common bees will never use their sting upon the queen; if she is to
be disposed of, they starve her to death; and the queen herself will sting
nothing but royalty,--nothing but a rival queen.

The queen, I say, is the mother bee; it is undoubtedly complimenting her
to call her a queen and invest her with regal authority, yet she is a
superb creature, and looks every inch a queen. It is an event to distinguish
her amid the mass of bees when the swarm alights; it awakens a
thrill Before you have seen a queen, you wonder if this or that bee,
which seems a little larger than its fellows, is not she, but when you
once really set eyes upon her you do not doubt for a moment.

You know _that_ is the queen. That long, elegant, shining, feminine-looking
creature can be none less than royalty. How beautifully her body
tapers, how distinguished she looks, how deliberate her movements! The
bees do not fall down before her, but caress her and touch her person.
The drones, or males, are large bees, too, but coarse, blunt,
broad-shouldered, masculine-looking.

There is but one fact or incident in the life of the queen that looks
imperial and authoritative: Huber relates that when the old queen is
restrained in her movements by the workers, and prevented from destroying
the young queens in their cells, she assumes a peculiar attitude and
utters a note that strikes every bee motionless and makes every head bow;
while this sound lasts, not a bee stirs, but all look abashed and
humbled: yet whether the emotion is one of fear, or reverence, or of
sympathy with the distress of the queen mother, is hard to determine. The
moment it ceases and she advances again toward the royal cells, the bees
bite and pull and insult her as before.

I always feel that I have missed some good fortune if I am away from home
when my bees swarm. What a delightful summer sound it is! how they come
pouring out of the hive, twenty or thirty thousand bees, each striving
to get out first! It is as when the dam gives way and lets the waters
loose; it is a flood of bees which breaks upward into the air, and
becomes a maze of whirling black lines to the eye, and a soft chorus of
myriad musical sounds to the ear. This way and that way they drift, now
contracting, now expanding, rising, sinking, growing thick about some
branch or bush, then dispersing and massing at some other point, till
finally they begin to alight in earnest, when in a few moments the whole
swarm is collected upon the branch, forming a bunch perhaps as large as
a two-gallon measure. Here they will hang from one to three or four hours
or until a suitable tree in the woods is looked up, when, if they have
not been offered a hive in the mean time, they are up and off.

In hiving them, if any accident happens to the queen the enterprise
miscarries at once. One day I shook a swarm from a small pear-tree into
a tin pan, set the pan down on a shawl spread beneath the tree, and put
the hive over it. The bees presently all crawled up into it, and all seemed
to go well for ten or fifteen minutes, when I observed that something
was wrong; the bees began to buzz excitedly and to rush about in a
bewildered manner, then they took to the wing and all returned to
the parent stock.

On lifting up the pan, I found beneath it the queen with three or four
other bees. She had been one of the first to fall, had missed the pan in
her descent, and I had set it upon her. I conveyed her tenderly back
to the hive, but either the accident terminated fatally with her,
or else the young queen had been liberated in the interim, and one
of them had fallen in combat, for it was ten days before the swarm
issued a second time.

No one, to my knowledge, has ever seen the bees house-hunting in the woods.
Yet there can be no doubt that they look up new quarters either before or
on the day the swarm issues. For all bees are wild bees and incapable
of domestication; that is, the instinct to go back to nature and take up
again their wild abodes in the trees is never eradicated.
Years upon years of life in the apiary seem to have no appreciable
effect towards their final, permanent domestication. That every new swarm
contemplates migrating to the woods, seems confirmed by the fact that
they will only come out when the weather is favorable to such an enterprise,
and that a passing cloud, or a sudden wind, after the bees are in the
air, will usually drive them back into the parent hive. Or an attack
upon them with sand or gravel, or loose earth or water, will quickly
cause them to change their plans. I would not even say but that, when the
bees are going off, the apparently absurd practice, now entirely discredited
by regular bee keepers but still resorted to by unscientific folk, of
beating upon tin pans, blowing horns, and creating an uproar generally,
might not be without good results.
Certainly not by drowning the "orders" of the queen, but by impressing
the bees, as with some unusual commotion in nature. Bees are easily alarmed
and disconcerted, and I have known runaway swarms to be brought down by a
farmer plowing in the field who showered them with handfuls of loose
soil.

I love to see a swarm go off--if it is not mine, and, if mine must go,
I want to be on hand to see the fun. It is a return to first principles
again by a very direct route.

The past season I witnessed two such escapes. One swarm had come out
the day before, and, without alighting, had returned to the parent
hive,--some hitch in the plan, perhaps, or may be the queen had found her
wings too weak. The next day they came out again and were hived. But
something offended them, or else the tree in the woods--perhaps some
royal old maple or birch, holding its head high above all others, with
snug, spacious, irregular chambers and galleries--had too many
attractions; for they were presently discovered filling the air
over the garden, and whirling excitedly around.

Gradually they began to drift over the street; a moment more, and they had
become separated from the other bees, and, drawing together in a
more compact mass or cloud, away they went, a humming, flying vortex
of bees, the queen in the centre, and the swarm revolving around
her as a pivot,--over meadows, across creeks and swamps, straight
for the heart of the mountain, about a mile distant,--slow at first,
so that the youth who gave chase kept up with them, but increasing
their speed till only a foxhound could have kept them in sight.

I saw their pursuer laboring up the side of the mountain; saw his white
shirtsleeves gleam as he entered the woods; but he returned a few
hours afterward without any clue as to the particular tree in which
they had taken refuge out of the ten thousand that covered the side
of the mountain.

The other swarm came out about one o'clock of a hot July day, and
at once showed symptoms that alarmed the keeper, who, however, threw
neither dirt nor water.

The house was situated on a steep side-hill.

Behind it the ground rose, for a hundred rods or so, at an angle
of nearly forty-five degrees, and the prospect of having to chase
them up this hill, if chase them we should, promised a good trial
of wind at least; for it soon became evident that their course lay
in this direction.

Determined to have a hand, or rather a foot, in the chase, I threw off my
coat and hurried on, before the swarm was yet fairly organized and
under way.

The route soon led me into a field of standing rye, every spear of
which held its head above my own. Plunging recklessly forward, my course
marked to those watching from below by the agitated and wriggling
grain, I emerged from the miniature forest just in time to see the
runaways disappearing over the top of the hill, some fifty rods in
advance of me.

Lining them as well as I could, I soon reached the hilltop, my
breath utterly gone and the perspiration streaming from every pore
of my skin.

On the other side the country opened deep and wide. A large valley swept
around to the north, heavily wooded at its head and on its sides. It
became evident at once that the bees had made good their escape, and that
whether they had stopped on one side of the valley or the other, or had
indeed cleared the opposite mountain and gone into some unknown forest
beyond, was entirely problematical.

I turned back, therefore, thinking of the honey-laden tree that some of
these forests would hold before the falling of the leaf.

I heard of a youth in the neighborhood more lucky than myself on a
like occasion. It seems that he had got well in advance of the swarm, whose
route lay over a hill, as in my case, and as he neared the summit, hat
in hand, the bees had just come up and were all about him. Presently he
noticed them hovering about his straw hat, and alighting on his arm;
and in almost as brief a time as it takes to relate it, the whole swarm
had followed the queen into his hat. Being near a stone wall, he
coolly deposited his prize upon it, quickly disengaged himself from
the accommodating bees, and returned for a hive. The explanation of
this singular circumstance no doubt is, that the queen, unused to
such long and heavy flights, was obliged to alight from very exhaustion.
It is not very unusual for swarms to be thus found in remote fields,
collected upon a bush or branch of a tree.

When a swarm migrates to the woods in this manner, the individual
bees, as I have intimated, do not move in right lines or straight
forward, like a flock of birds, but round and round, like chaff in
a whirlwind.

Unitedly they form a humming, revolving, nebulous mass, ten or fifteen
feet across, which keeps just high enough to clear all obstacles, except
in crossing deep valleys, when, of course, it may be very high.
The swarm seems to be guided by a line of couriers, which may be
seen (at least at the outset) constantly going and coming. As they take a
direct course, there is always some chance of following them to the
tree, unless they go a long distance, and some obstruction, like a wood or
a swamp or a high hill, intervenes,--enough chance, at any rate, to
stimulate the lookers-on to give vigorous chase as long as their wind holds
out. If the bees are successfully followed to their retreat, two plans
are feasible,--either to fell the tree at once, and seek to hive them,
perhaps bring them home in the section of the tree that contains the
cavity; or to leave the tree till fall, then invite your neighbors and go
and cut it, and see the ground flow with honey. The former course is
more business-like; but the latter is the one usually recommended by
one's friends and neighbors.

Perhaps nearly one third of all the runaway swarms leave when no one
is about, and hence are unseen and unheard, save, perchance, by some
distant laborers in the field, or by some youth plowing on the side
of the mountain, who hears an unusual humming noise, and sees the swarm
dimly whirling by overhead, and, maybe, gives chase; or he may simply
catch the sound, when he pauses, looks quickly around, but sees
nothing.

When he comes in at night he tells how he heard or saw a swarm of bees
go over; and perhaps from beneath one of the hives in the garden a black
mass of bees has disappeared during the day.

They are not partial as to the kind of tree,--pine, hemlock, elm,
birch, maple, hickory,--any tree with a good cavity high up or low
down.

A swarm of mine ran away from the new patent hive I gave them, and took
up their quarters in the hollow trunk of an old apple-tree across
an adjoining field.

The entrance was a mouse-hole near the ground. Another swarm in the
neighborhood deserted their keeper, and went into the cornice of an
out-house that stood amid evergreens in the rear of a large mansion. But
there is no accounting for the taste of bees, as Samson found when he
discovered the swarm in the carcass, or more probably the skeleton, of
the lion he had slain.

In any given locality, especially in the more wooded and mountainous
districts, the number of swarms that thus assert their independence forms
quite a large per cent. In the Northern States these swarms very often
perish before spring; but in such a country as Florida they seem to multiply,
till bee-trees are very common. In the West, also, wild honey is often
gathered in large quantities. I noticed, not long since, that some
wood-choppers on the west slope of the Coast Range felled a tree that had
several pailfuls in it.

One night on the Potomac a party of us unwittingly made our camp
near the foot of a bee-tree, which next day the winds of heaven
blew down, for our special delectation, at least so we read the sign.

Another time, while sitting by a waterfall in the leafless April woods, I
discovered a swarm in the top of a large hickory. I had the season before
remarked the tree as a likely place for bees, but the screen of leaves
concealed them from me. This time my former presentiment occurred to me,
and, looking sharply, sure enough there were the bees, going out and
in a large, irregular opening. In June a violent tempest of wind and rain
demolished the tree, and the honey was all lost in the creek into which it
fell. I happened along that way two or three days after the tornado,
when I saw a remnant of the swarm, those, doubtless, that escaped the flood
and those that were away when the disaster came, hanging in a small black
mass to a branch high up near where their home used to be. They looked
forlorn enough. If the queen was saved, the remnant probably sought
another tree; otherwise the bees soon died.

It was all "His Will" to the Tenor, and for his sake there was
nothing he would not have borne heroically.

[Illustration: (musical notation); lyrics: He, watch-ing o-ver Is--ra--el,
slumbers not, nor sleeps.]

His cough was much worse that day, the pain in his chest was more acute,
and his temperature rose higher and higher, yet he did not complain. He
knew he was suffering from something serious now, but he derived from his
perfect faith in the beneficence of the Power that orders all things an
almost superhuman fortitude.

But as he sat there with his hands folded, his mind, busy with many
things, returned inevitably to the old weary theme, just as, at the same
time, Angelica's own was doing, but from the opposite point of view.
Always, after a startling event, those who have been present as
spectators, or taken some part in it, repeat their experiences, and make
some remark upon them, again and again in exactly the same words, their
minds working upon the subject like heat upon water that boils, forming it
into bubbles which it bursts and re-forms incessantly. He began each time
with that remark of Angelica's about the change which mere dress effects,
and went on to wonder at the transformation of a strong young woman into a
slender delicate-looking boy by it; and then went on to accept her
conclusion that it was natural he should have been deceived seeing that,
in the first place, he had not the slightest suspicion, and in the second
he had never seen the "Boy" except in his own dimly lighted room, or out
of doors at night--besides, it was not the first time that a boy had been
successfully personated by a girl, a man by a woman; but here he found
himself obliged to rehearse the instances which Angelica had quoted. Then
he would reconsider the fact that the part had been well played; not only
attitudes and gestures, but ideas and sentiments, and the proper
expression of them had been done to perfection--which led up again to
another assertion of hers, She had been a boy for the time being, there
was no doubt about that. And yet if he had had the slightest suspicion!
There had been the shyness at first, which had worn off as it became
apparent that the disguise was complete; the horror of being touched or
startled, of anything, as he now perceived, which might have caused a
momentary forgetfulness, and so have led to self-betrayal; the
boyishnesses which, alternating with older moods, might have suggested
something, but had only charmed him; the womanishnesses of which, alas!
there had been too few as seen by the light of this new revelation; the
physical differences--but they had been cleverly concealed, as she said,
by the cut of her clothing, and pads; the "funny head," however, about
which they had both jested so often--oh, dear! how sick he was of the
whole subject! If only it would let him alone! But what pretty ways he had
had--the "Boy"! What a dear, dear lad he had been with all his faults!
Alas! alas! if only the Boy had been left him!

Then a pause. Then off again. He had been enchanted, like Reymond of
Lusignan in olden times, by a creature that was half a monster. The Boy
had been a reality to him, but the lady had never been more than a lovely
dream, and the monster--well, the monster had not yet appeared, for that
dark haired girl in the unwomanly clothes, with pride on her lips and pain
in her eyes, was no monster after all, but an erring mortal like himself,
a poor weak creature to be pitied and prayed for. And the Tenor bowed his
sunny head and prayed for her earnestly through all the long hours of
solitary suffering which closed that day.

Then came another sleepless night, and another gloomy morning which
brought his little chorister boy, whom he tried to teach as usual; but
even the child saw what the effort cost him, and looked at him with great
tender eyes solemnly, and was very docile.

Before the early service one of his fellow lay clerks came in to see how
he was. They had all noticed the feverish cold from which he had appeared
to be suffering the whole week, and this one, not finding him better,
begged him to stay in that day and take care of himself for the sake of
his voice. The Tenor brushed his hand back over his hair. He had forgotten
that he ever had a voice. But at all events he must go to the morning
service; after that he would stay at home. He longed for the Blessed
Sacrament, which was always a "Holy Communion" to him; but he did not say
so.

That afternoon he fell asleep in his easy-chair facing the window which
looked out upon the cathedral--or into a troubled doze rather, from which
he awoke all at once with a start, and, seeing the window shut, rose
hurriedly to go and open it for the "Boy." He had done so before at night
often when he chanced to forget it. But when he got to it now he had to
clutch the frame to support himself, and he looked out stupidly for some
seconds, wondering in a dazed way why the sun was shining when it should
be dark. Then suddenly full consciousness returned, and he remembered. He
should never open the window again for the Boy, never again.

He returned to his chair after that, and sat down to think.

When he began to understand it thoroughly--the meaning of the last
incident--he was startled out of the apathy that oppressed him.

It became evident now that he was not merely suffering, but fast becoming
disabled by illness, and it was time he let someone know, otherwise there
might be confusion and annoyance about--his work--finding a substitute;
and there would be a risk about--about--what was he trying to think of?
Oh, her name. He might mention it and be overheard by curious people if he
lost his head--Angelica--Mrs. Kilroy of Ilverthorpe--he wished; he could
forget; but he would provide against the danger of repeating them aloud.
He would telegraph to his own man--the fellow had written to him the other
day, being in want of a place: a capital servant and discreet--glad he
had thought of him. And then there were other matters--the sensible
setting of his house in order which every man threatened with illness
would be wise to see to. There were several letters he must write, one to
the dean, amongst others, to ask him to come and see him. Writing was a
great effort, but he managed with much difficulty to accomplish all that
he had set himself to do, and then his mind was at rest.

Presently his old housekeeper came in with some tea. She was anxious about
him.

"I've brought you this, sir," she said. "You've not tasted a solid morsel
since Tuesday morning, and this is Thursday afternoon. Try and take
something, sir, it will do you good. You must be getting quite faint, and
indeed you look it."

"Now, I call that good of you," the Tenor answered hoarsely, as he took
the cup from her hand. "I shall be glad to have some tea, I've been quite
longing for something hot to drink."

The woman was examining his face with critical kindness. She noticed the
constant attempt to cough, and the painful catching of the breath which
rendered the effort abortive.

"I am afraid you are not at all well, sir," she said, expecting him to
deny it, but he did not.

"I am not at all well, to tell you the truth," he confessed. "I have just
written to the dean to tell him, and--" a fit of coughing rendered the end
of the sentence unintelligible. "I want you to post these letters," he was
able to say at last distinctly; "send this telegram off at once to my
servant, and leave this note at the deanery. That will do as you go home.
The man should be here to-morrow, and anything else there may be can be
attended to when he arrives."

"You'll let your friends know you're not very well, sir," the housekeeper
suggested.

"Those letters"--indicating the ones she held in her hand--"are to tell
them."

The woman seeing to whom the letters were addressed, and hearing the Tenor
talk in an off-hand way about his manservant as if he had been accustomed
to the luxury all his life, feared for a moment that his mind was affected;
but then some of those wild surmises as to whom and what he might be,
which were rife all over the ancient city when he first arrived, recurred
to her, and there slipped from her unawares the remark: "Well, they always
said you was _somebody_, and to look at you one might suppose you was
a dook or a markis, sir, but I won't make so bold as to ask."

The Tenor smiled, "I am afraid I am only a Tenor with an abominable cold,"
he rejoined good-naturedly. "I really think I must nurse it a little. When
I have seen the dean, I shall go to bed."

"You'll see the doctor first," she muttered decisively as she took up the
tray and withdrew.

The Tenor overheard her, but was past making any objection. He had managed
to take the tea, and, eased by the grateful warmth, he sank into another
heavy doze from which the arrival of the doctor roused him. It was evening
then.

He made an effort to rise in his courteous way to receive the doctor, was
sorry to trouble him for anything so trifling as a cold, would not have
troubled him in fact had not his officious old housekeeper taken the law
into her hands; but now that he had come was very glad to see him;
singers, as the doctor knew, being fidgety about their throats; and really
--with a smile--even a cold was important when it threatened one's means
of livelihood.

The doctor responded cheerfully to these cheerful platitudes, but he was
listening and observing all the time. Then he took out a stethoscope in
two pieces, and as he screwed them together he asked:

"Been wet lately?"

"Well, yes," the Tenor answered--"something of that kind."

"And you did not change immediately?"

"N-no, now I think of it, not for hours. In fact, I believe my things
dried on me."

"Ah-h-h!" shaking his head. "And you'd been living rather low before that,
perhaps? (Just let me take your temperature.) I should say that you had
got a little down--below par, you know, eh?"'

"Well, perhaps," the Tenor acknowledged.

"Humph." The doctor glanced at his clinical thermometer. "You have a
temperature, young man. Now let me--" he applied the stethoscope. "I am
afraid you are in for a bad dose," he said after a careful examination. "I
wish you had sent for me twenty-four hours sooner. These things should be
taken in time. And it is marvellous how you have kept about so long. But
now go to bed at once. Keep yourself warm, and the temperature as even as
possible. It is all a matter of nursing; but I'll save--" he had been
going to say "your life" but changed the phrase--"your voice, never fear!"

The Tenor smiled: "Pneumonia, I suppose?" he said interrogatively.

"I am sorry to say it is," the doctor answered as he rose to depart; "and
double pneumonia, to boot. I'll send you something to take at once"--and
he hurried away before the housekeeper had time to speak to him.

When the medicine arrived, however, she had the satisfaction of
administering a dose to her master, and she begged at the same time that
she might be allowed to stay in the house that night in case he wanted
anything, but this the Tenor would not hear of. He did not think he should
want anything--(he could think of nothing unfortunately but the risk of
mentioning Angelica's name). She might come a little earlier in the
morning and get him some tea; probably he would be glad of some then, He
was not going to get up in the morning, he really meant to take care of
himself. The housekeeper coaxed, but in vain. There was no place for her
to sleep in comfort, no bell to summon her, and as to sitting up all night
that was out of the question; who would do her work in the morning? There
would be plenty of people to look after him to-morrow. One night could
make no difference.

Had she heard the doctor's orders she would have disobeyed her master, but
as it was his manner imposed upon her, he spoke so confidently; and
accordingly she left the house at the usual hour, to the Tenor's great
relief.

When she had gone he was seized with an attack of hæmoptysis, and after he
had recovered from that sufficiently he went to bed--or rather he found
himself there, not knowing quite how it had come to pass, for the disease
had made rapid progress in the last few hours, and he now suffered
acutely, his temperature was higher, and the terrible sense of suffocation
continued to increase.

It was at this time that the dean, in his comfortable easy-chair, looked
up from the Tenor's note, and said to his wife deprecatingly: "He is ill,
it seems, and wishes to see me. Do you think I need go to-night?"

"No, my dear, _certainly_ not," was the emphatic reply. "There cannot
be much the matter with him. I saw him out only yesterday or the day
before. And at all events it will do in the morning. You must consider
yourself."

So the dean stayed at home to lay up a lifelong regret for himself, but
not with an easy conscience. He had a sort of feeling that it would be
well to go, which his dislike to turning out on a raw night like that
would not have outweighed without his wife's word in the scale.

Nothing was being done to relieve the Tenor. There were no medicines
regularly administered, no soothing drinks for him, no equable
temperature, no boiling water to keep the atmosphere moist with steam, the
common necessaries of such a case; all these the Tenor, knowing his
danger, had composedly foregone lest perchance in a moment of delirium he
should mention a lady's name; and that he had had the foresight to do so
was a cause of earnest thanksgiving to him when every breath of cold air
began to stab like a knife through his lungs, and his senses wandered away
for lengths of time which he could not compute, and he became conscious
that he was uttering his thoughts aloud in spite of himself.

"It is not so very long till morning," he found himself saying once. "I
will just lie still and bear it till then. I am drowsy enough--and in the
morning--" but now all at once he asked himself, was there to be any more
morning for him?

He was too healthy-minded to long for death, and too broken-hearted to
shrink from it. His first feeling, however, when he realized the near
prospect was nothing but a kind of mild surprise that it should be near,
and even this was instantly dismissed. No more morning for him meant
little leisure to think of her, and here he hastened to fold his hands and
bow his golden head: "Lord, Lord," he entreated in the midst of his
martyrdom, "make her a good woman yet." The bells above him broke in upon
his prayer. "Amen" and "amen," they seemed to say; and then the chime,
full-fraught for him with promise, rang its constant message out, and as
he listened his heart expanded with hope, his last earthly sorrow slipped
away from him, and his soul relied upon the certainty that his final
supplication was not in vain.

After this he was conscious of nothing but his own sufferings for a
little. Then there came a blank; and next he thought he was singing. He
heard his own marvellous voice and wondered at it, and he remembered that
once before he had had the same experiences, but when or where he could
not recall. Now, he would fain have stopped; for every note was a dagger
in his breast, yet he found himself forced to sing till at last the pain
aroused him.

When full consciousness returned, a terrible thirst devoured him. What
would he not have given for a drink!--something to drink, and someone to
bring it to him.

What made him think of his mother just then? Where was his mother? It was
just as well, perhaps, she should not be there to see him suffer.

He had never a bitter thought in his mind about any person or thing, nor
did he dream of bemoaning the cruel fate which left him now at his death,
as at his birth, deserted. What he did think of were the many kind people
who would have been only too glad to come to his assistance had they but
known his need.

But the torment of thirst increased upon him.

He thought of the dear Lord in _his_ agony of thirst, and bore it for
a time. Then he remembered that there must be water in the room. With
great difficulty he got up to get it for himself. His face was haggard and
drawn by this time, and there were great black circles round his sunken
eyes, but the expression of strength and sweetness had been intensified if
anything, and he never looked more beautiful than then.

It seemed like a day's journey to the washstand. He reached it at last,
however, reached it and grasped the carafe--with such a feeling of relief
and thankfulness! Alas! it was empty. So also was the jug. The woman had
forgotten for once to fill them, and there was not a drop of water to
moisten his lips.

Tears came at this, and he sank into a chair. It was hard, and he was much
exhausted, but still there was no reproach upon his lips. Presently he
found himself in bed again with his pillows arranged so as to prop him up.
The struggle for breath was awful, and he could not lie down. He had only
to fight for a little longer, however, then suddenly the worst was over.
And at the same moment, as it seemed to him, the chime rang out again
triumphantly; and almost immediately afterward his first friend and foster
father, the rough collier, grasped his hand. But he had scarcely greeted
him when his second friend arrived, and bending over him called him as of
old, "Julian, my dear, dear boy!" This reminded the Tenor. "Where
_is_ the Boy?" he said, "Is the window open? It is time he came."

"Israfil, I am here," was the soft response. The Tenor's face became
radiant. All whom he had ever cared for were present with him, coming as
he called them--even the dean, who was kneeling now beside his bed
murmuring accustomed prayers. "What happiness!" The Tenor murmured. "I was
so sorrowful this afternoon, and now! A happy death! a happy death! Ah,
Boy, do you not see that he gives us our heart's desire? He slumbers not,
nor sleeps," and the Tenor's face shone.

Then the chime was ringing again, and now it never ceased for him. He had
sunk into the last dreamy lethargy from which only the clash of the bells
above roused him hour by hour during the few that remained; but all sense
of time was over; the hours were one; and so the beloved music accompanied
him till his spirit rose enraptured to the glory of the Beatific Vision
itself.

It was just at the dawn, when the Boy was wont to leave him, that,
according to his ancient faith, the dear-earned wings were given him, the
angel guardian led him, and the true and beautiful pure spirit was
welcomed by its kindred into everlasting joy.


CHAPTER V.


When Angelica heard those dreadful words: "He's dead, miss, didn't you
know? and buried yesterday"--her jaw dropped, and for a moment she felt
the solid earth reel beneath her. The colour left her face and returned to
it, red chasing white as one breath follows another, and she glared at the
woman. For her first indignant thought was that she was being insulted
with a falsehood. The thing was impossible; he could not be dead.

"And buried yesterday," the woman repeated.

"I don't believe you," Angelica exclaimed, stamping her foot imperiously.

The woman drew herself up, gave one indignant look, then turned her back,
and walked into the house.

Angelica ran down the passage after her, and grasped her arm. "I beg your
pardon," she said. "But, oh, do tell me--do make me understand, for I
cannot believe it! I cannot believe it!"

The woman pushed open the sitting room door, and led her in.

"Was you a friend of his, miss--or ma'am?" she asked.

"I am Mrs. Kilroy of Ilverthorpe," Angelica answered.

"Yes, I was a friend of his. I cared for him greatly. It is only a few
days since I saw him alive and well. Oh! it isn't true, it isn't true!"
she broke off, wringing her hands. "I cannot believe it!"

The woman sat down, threw her apron back over her face, and rocked herself
to and fro.

Angelica, dazed and dry-eyed, stared at her stupidly. The shock had
stunned her.

Presently the woman recovered herself, and seeing the lady's stony face,
forgot her own trouble for the moment, and hastened to help her.

"I don't wonder you're took-to, my lady," she said. "It's bin a awful blow
to a many, a awful blow. Oh! I never thought when they used to come and
see him here in their fine carriages and with their servants and their
horses and that as it was anything but the music brought 'em--tho', mind
you, he was as easy with them as they, with him. Oh, dear! Oh dear!"

Angelica's lips were so parched she could hardly articulate, "Tell me,"
she gasped, "tell me all. I cannot understand."

The woman fetched her some water. "Lie back a bit in this chair, ma'am,"
she said, "and I'll just tell you. It'll come easier when you know. When
one knows, it helps a body. You see, ma'am, it was this way"--and then she
poured forth the narrative of those last sad days, omitting no detail, and
Angelica listened, dry-eyed at first, but presently she was seized upon by
the pitifulness of it all, and then, like scattered raindrops that precede
a heavy shower, the great tears gathered in her eyes and slowly
overflowed, forerunners of a storm which burst at last in deep convulsive
sobs that rent her, so that her suffering body came to the relief of her
mind.

"I wanted to stay with 'im that last night and see to 'im," the
housekeeper proceeded, "for the doctor's very words to me was, when I went
to fetch 'im, before ever 'e had come to see what was the matter, 'e ses,
knowing me for a many years, 'e ses, 'You'll look after 'im well, I'm
sure, Mrs. Jenkins,' 'e ses, and I answered, 'Yes, sir, please God, I
will,' for I felt as something was 'anging over me then, I did, tho'
little I knowed what it was. And I did my best to persuade 'im to let me
stay that night and, nurse 'im, but 'e wouldn't hear of it; 'e said there
wasn't no need; and what with the way 'e 'ad as you didn't like to go agin
'im in nothing, and what with 'is bein' so cheerful like, 'e imposed upon
me, so I went away. Oh, it's been a bad business"--shaking her head
disconsolately--"a bad business! To think of 'im bein' alone that night
without a soul near 'im, and it 'is last on earth. He'd not 'ave let a dog
die so, 'e wouldn't."

Angelica's sobs redoubled.

"But I couldn't rest, ma'am," the woman went on, "The whole night through
I kep awaking up and thinking of 'im, and I 'eard every hour strike, till
at last I couldn't stand it no longer, and I just got up and came to see
'ow 'e was. I'd 'a' bin less tired if I'd a sat up all night with 'im. And
I came 'ere, and as soon as I opened the door, ma'am, there!" she threw
her hands before her--"I knew there was something! For the smell that met
me in the passage, it was just for all the world like fresh turned clay.
But still I didn't think. It wasn't till afterward, that I knowed it was
'is grave. And I went upstairs, ma'am, not imaginin' nothin' neither, and
tapped at 'is door, and 'e didn't answer, so I opens it softly, and ses:
''Ow are you this mornin', sir?' I ses, quite softly like, in a whisper,
for fear of wakin' 'im if 'e should be asleep. Oh, dear! Oh, dear! I
needn't 'a' bin so careful! And I ses it agin: 'Ow are you, sir, this
mornin'?': I ses: 'I 'ope you 'ad a good night,' I ses; but still 'e
didn't answer, and some'ow it struck me, ma'am, that the 'ouse was very
quiet--it seemed kind of unnatural still, if you understand. So, just
without knowin' why like, I pushed the door open"--showing, how she did it
with her hands--"little by little, bit by bit, all for fear of disturbing
'im, till at last I steps in, makin' no noise--Oh, dear! Oh, dear!" She
threw her apron up over her face again, and rocked herself as she stood.
"And there 'e was, ma'am," she resumed huskily, "propped up by pillows in
the bed so as to be almost sittin', and the top one was a great broad
pillow, very white, for 'e was always most pertic'lar about such things,
and 'ad 'em all of the very best. And 'is face was turned away from me as
I came in, ma'am, so that I only saw it sidewise, and just at first I
thought 'e was asleep--very sound." She wiped her eyes with her apron, and
shook her head several times. "And there's a little window to 'is room
what slides along instead of openin' up," she proceeded when she had
recovered herself sufficiently, "with small panes, and outside there's
roses and honeysucklers, what made shadows that flickered, for the mornin'
was gusty though bright, and they deceived me. I thought 'e was breathin'
natural. But while I stood there the sun shone in and just touched the
edges of 'is 'air, ma'am, and it looked for all the world like a crown of
gold against the white pillows, it did, indeed--eh! ma'am, I don't wonder
you take on!" This emphatically upon a fresh outburst of uncontrollable
grief from Angelica. "For I ses to myself, when the light fell on 'is face
strong like that, 'It's the face of a angel,' I ses--but there!" raising
her hands palms outward, slowly, and bringing them down to her knees
again--"I can't tell you! But 'is lips were just a little parted, ma'am,
with a sort o' look on 'em, not a smile, you understand, but just a look
that sweet as made you feel like smilin' yourself! and 'is skin that
transapparent you'd 'ave expected to see through it; but that didn't make
me think nothin', for it was always so--as clear as your own, ma'am, if
you'll excuse the liberty; and some folks said it was because he was a
great lord in disguise, for such do 'ave fine skins; and some said it was
because 'e was so good, but I think it was both myself. But 'owever,
ma'am, seein' 'e slept so sound, I made bold to creep in a little nearer,
for 'e was a picter!" shaking her head solemnly--"an' I was just thinkin'
what a proud woman 'is mother would be if she was me to see 'im at that
moment an' 'im so beautiful, when, ma'am"--but here her voice broke, and
it was some seconds before she could add--"you might 'a' 'eard me scream
at the cathedral. And after I 'ad screamed I'd 'a' given untold gold not
to 'a' done it. For it seemed a sin to make a noise, and 'im so still.
And, oh! ma'am, 'e'd bin dyin' the 'ole o' that last afternoon an' I never
suspected 'e'd more nor a cold, though I knew it was bad. An' 'e'd bin
alone the 'ole o' that blessed night a dyin', an' sensible they say to the
last, an' not a soul to give 'im so much as a drink, an' the thirst awful,
so I'm told. An' 'e'd been up to try an' get one for 'imself, for the
bottle off the washstand was lyin' on the floor as if he'd dropped it out
of 'is 'and--'e'd got up to get a drink for 'imself," she repeated
impressively, "an' 'im dyin', ma'am, and _there wasn't a drop o' water
there_. I knowed it--I knowed it the moment I see that bottle on the
floor. I'd forgot to bring up any before I left the day before, though I
ses to myself when I did the room in the mornin'--'I must fetch that water
at once,' and never thought of it again from that moment."

"Oh, this is dreadful! dreadful!" Angelica moaned.

"Eh!" the woman ejaculated sympathetically. "And the 'ardest part of it
was the way they came when it was too late. Everybody. An' me, 'eaven
forgive me, thinkin' 'im out o' 'is mind when 'e wrote to 'em an' said
they was 'is friends. There was 'is lordship the Markis o' Dawne, and 'is
two sisters, an' that other great lady what is with 'em so much. An' they
didn't say much any of 'em except 'er, but she wept an' wrung 'er 'ands,
and blamed 'erself and everybody for lettin' the master 'ave 'is own way
an' leaving 'im, as it seems it was 'is wish to be left, alone with some
trouble 'e 'ad. But they 'ad come to see 'im, too, Dr. Galbraith and the
Markis 'ad, many times, for I let 'em in myself, an' never thought nothin'
of it in the way of their bein' friends of 'is, I thought they came about
the music. Eh!" she repeated, "they didn't say much, any of 'em, but you
could see, you could see! An' the dean came, an' you should 'a' 'eard 'm!
full o' remorse, 'e was, ma'am, for not 'avin 'come the night before,
though 'e was asked. An' they all went upstairs to see 'm, an' 'im lyin'
there so quiet and all indifferent to their grief, yet with such a look of
peace upon 'is face! It was sweet and it was sad too; for all the world as
if 'e'd bin 'urt cruel by somebody in 'is feelin's but 'ad forgiven 'em,
an' then bin glad to go."

"Israfil! Israfil!" the wretched Angelica moaned aloud. She could picture
the scene. Her Aunt Fulda, prayerful but tearless, only able to sorrow as
saints and angels do; Ideala with her great human heart torn, weeping and
wailing and wringing her hands; Aunt Claudia, hard of aspect and soft of
heart, stealthily wiping her tears as if ashamed of them; Uncle Dawne
sitting with his elbows on his knees and his face hidden in his hands; and
Dr. Galbraith standing beside the bed looking down on the marble calm of
the dead with a face as still, but pained in expression--Angelica knew
them all so well, it was easy for her imagination to set them before her
in characteristic attitudes at such a time; and she was not surprised to
find that they had been friends of his although no hint of the fact had
ever reached her. They were a loyal set in that little circle, and could
keep counsel among themselves, as she knew; an example which she herself
would have followed as a matter of course under similar circumstances, so
surely does the force of early associations impel us instinctively to act
on the principles which we have been accustomed to see those about us
habitually pursue.

"An' they covered 'im with flowers, an' one or other of those great ladies
in the plainest black dresses with nothin' except just white linen collar
an' cuffs, stayed with 'im day an' night till they took 'im to 'is long
'ome yesterday," the woman concluded.

Then there was a long silence, broken only by Angelica's heavy sobs.

"Can't I do nothin' for you, ma'am?" the housekeeper asked at last.

"Yes," Angelica answered; "leave me alone awhile."

And the woman had tact enough to obey.

Then Angelica got up, and went and knelt by the Tenor's empty chair, and
laid her cheek against the cold cushion.

"It isn't true, it isn't true, it isn't true," she wailed again and again,
but it was long before she could think at all; and her dry eyes ached, for
she had no more tears to shed.

Presently she became aware of a withered rose in the hollow between the
seat of the chair and the back. She knew it must be one of those she had
thrown at him that night, perhaps the one he had carelessly twirled in his
hand while they talked, now and then inhaling its perfume as he listened,
watching her with quiet eyes.

"Dead! dead!" she whispered, pressing the dry petals to her lips.

Then she looked about her.

The light of day, falling on a scene which was familiar only by the
subdued light of a lamp, produced an effect as of chill and bareness. She
noticed worn places in the carpet, and a certain shabbiness from constant
use in everything, which had not been visible at night, and now affected
her in an inexpressibly dreary way. There was very little difference
really, and yet there was _some_ change which, as she perceived it,
began gradually to bring the great change home to her. There was the empty
chair, first relic in importance and saddest in significance. There were
his pipes neatly arranged on a little fretwork rack which hung where bell
handles are usually put beside the fireplace. She remembered having seen
him replace one of them the last time she was there, and now she went over
and touched its cold stem, and her heart swelled. The stand of ferns and
flowers which he had arranged with such infinite pains to please the "Boy"
stood in its accustomed place, but ferns and flowers alike were dead or
drooping in their pots, untended and uncared for, and some had been taken
away altogether, leaving gaps on the stand, behind which the common grate,
empty, and rusted from disuse, appeared.

There was dust on her violin case, and dust on his grand piano--her violin
which he kept so carefully. She opened the violin case expecting to find
the instrument ruined by water. But no! it lay there snugly on its velvet
cushion without a scratch on its polished surface or an injured string.
She understood. And perhaps it had been one of his last conscious acts to
put it right for her. He was always doing something for her, always. They
said now that his income had been insufficient, or that he gave too much
away, and that the malady had been rendered hopeless from the first by his
weakness for want of food. The woman who waited on him had told her so.
"He'd feed that chorister brat what come every morning," she said, "in a
way that was shameful, but his own breakfast has been dry bread and
coffee, without neither sugar nor milk, for many and many a day--and his
dinner an ounce of meat at noon, with never a bite nor sup to speak of at
tea, as often as not."

"O Israfil! Israfil!" she moaned when she thought of it. There had always
been food, and wine too, for that other hungry "Boy," food and wine which
the Tenor rarely touched--she remembered that now. To see the "Boy" eat
and be happy was all he asked, and if hunger pinched him, he filled his
pipe and smoked till the craving ceased. She saw it all now. But why had
she never suspected it, she who was rolling in wealth? His face was wan
enough at times, and worn to that expression of sadness which comes of
privation, but the reason had never cost her a thought. And it was all for
her--or for "him" whom he believed to be near and dear to her. No one else
had ever sacrificed anything for her sake, no one else had ever cared for
her as he had cared, no one else would ever again. Oh, hateful deception!
She threw herself down on her knees once more.

"O Israfil! Israfil!" she cried, "only forgive me, and I will be true!
only forgive me, and I will be true!"

It was trying to rain outside. The wind swept down the Close in little
gusts, and dashed cold drops against the window pane, and in the intervals
sprays of the honeysuckle and clematis tapped on the glass, and the leaves
rustled. This roused her. She had heard them rustle like that on many a
moonlight night--with what a different significance! And he also used to
listen to them, and had told her that often when he was alone at night and
tired, they had sounded like voices whispering, and had comforted him, for
they had always said pleasant things. Oh, gentle loving heart, to which
the very leaves spoke peace, so spiritually perfect was it! In the same way
the horizontal and vertical components of the stresses in each of
the other bays of the flanges of the bowstring were found; and the stresses
in the verticals and diagonals were found by addition, subtraction,
and reduction. These calculations are shown on the table, Fig 1B.
The result of this is a complete set of stresses in all the members of the
bowstring girder--see Fig. 2--which produce a state of equilibrium
at each point.

The fact that this state of equilibrium is produced proves conclusively that
the rule above described and thus applied, although possibly it
may be considered empirical, results in the correct solution of the
question, and that the stresses shown are actually those which the
girder would have to sustain under the given position of the live
load.

Figs. 2 to 10 inclusive show stresses arrived at in this manner for every
position of the live load. An inspection of these diagrams shows: a. That
there is no single instance of compression in a vertical member of the
bowstring girder, b. That every one of the diagonals is subjected to
compression at some point or other in the passage of the live load over
the bridge, c. That the maximum horizontal component of the stresses in
each of the diagonals is a constant quantity, not only for tension
and compression, but for all the diagonals.

The diagrams also show the following facts, which are, however, recognized
in the common formulæ: d. The maximum stress in any vertical is equal to
the sum of the amounts of the live and dead loads per bay of the girder.
e. The maximum horizontal component of the stresses in any bay of
the top flange is the same for each bay, and is equal to the maximum
stress in the bottom flange. Having taken out the stresses in several forms
of bowstring girders, differing from each other in the proportion of
depth to span, the number of bays in the girder, and the amounts and
ratios of the live and dead loads, similar results were invariably found,
and a consideration of the various sets of calculations resulted in
the following empirical rule for the stresses in the diagonals: "The
horizontal component of the greatest stress in any diagonal, which
will be both compressive and tensile, and is the same for every diagonal
brace in the girder, is equal to the amount of the live load per bay
multiplied by the span of the girder, and divided by sixteen times the
depth of girder at center." The following formulæ will give all the stresses
in the bowstring girder, without the necessity of any diagrams,
or basing any calculations on the assumed action of any of the
members of the girders:

Let S = span of girder.

D = depth at center.
B = length of one bay.
N = number of bays.
L = length of any bay of top flange.
l = length of any diagonal.
w = dead load per bay of girder.
w¹= live load per bay of girder.

W = total load per bay of girder = w + w¹.

Then: S/B = N.

Bottom Flange. WNS/8D = maximum stress throughout. (1)
Top Flange.--In any bay the maximum stress =
+ WNS/8D × L/B = + WLN²/8D (2)
_Verticals._--The maximum stress = -W. (3)

_Diagonals.
Having accomplished his errand, he got up from the ground, slapped his
knees to knock the clay off them, and, still sniffing and sobbing, walked
back the way he had come in sturdy dejection.

All that was womanly in Angelica went out to the poor little fellow. She
would like to have comforted him, but what could she say or do? Alas!
alas! a woman who cannot comfort a child, what sort of a woman is she?

Presently she found herself standing beside the river looking up to the
iron bridge that crossed it with one long span. There were trees on one
side of the bridge, and old houses piled up on the other picturesquely.
Israfil had noticed them the last time they rowed down the river. The
evening was closing in. The sky was deepening from gray to indigo. There
was one bright star above the bridge. But why had she come here? She had
not come to see a bridge with one great star above it! nor to watch a
sullen river slipping by--unless, indeed--She bent over the water, peering
into it. She remembered that after the first plunge there had been no
great pain--and even if there had been, what was physical pain compared to
this terrible heartache, this dreadful remorse, an incurable malady of the
mind which would make life a burden to her forevermore, if she had the
patience to live? Patience and Angelica! What an impossible association of
ideas! Her face relaxed at the humour of it, and it was with a smile that
she turned to gather her summer drapery about her, bending sideways to
reach back to the train of her dress, as the insane fashion of tight
skirts, which were then in vogue, necessitated. In the act, however, she
became aware of someone hastening after her, and the next moment a soft
white hand grasped her arm and drew her back.

"Angelica! how can you stand so near the edge in this uncertain light? I
really thought you would lose your balance and fall in."

It was Lady Fulda who spoke, uttering the words in an irritated, almost
angry tone, as mothers do when they relieve their own feelings by scolding
and shaking a child that has escaped with a bruise from some danger to
life and limb. But that was all she ever said on the subject, and
consequently Angelica never knew if she had guessed her intention or only
been startled by her seeming carelessness, as she professed to be. The
sudden impulse passed from Angelica, as is the way with morbid impulses,
the moment she ceased to be alone. The first word was sufficient to take
her out of herself, to recall her to her normal state, and to readjust her
view of life, setting it back to the proper focus. But still she looked
out at the world from a low level, if healthy; a dull, dead level, the
mean temperature of which was chilly, while the atmosphere threatened to
vary only from stagnant apathy to boisterous discontent, positive,
hopeless, and unconcealed.

Moved by common consent, the two ladies turned from the river, and walked
on slowly together and in silence. The feeling uppermost in Angelica's
mind was one of resentment. Her aunt had appeared in the same unexpected
manner at the outset of her acquaintance with the Tenor, and she objected
to her reappearance now, at the conclusion. It was like an incident in a
melodrama, the arrival of the good influence--it was absurd; if she had
done it on purpose, it would have been impertinent.

The entrance to Ilverthorpe was only a few hundred yards from where they
had met, and they had now reached a postern which led into the grounds.
Angelica opened it with a latchkey and then stood to let her aunt pass
through before her.

"I suppose you will come in," she said ungraciously.

But Lady Fulda forgave the discourtesy, and the two walked on together up
to the house--passing, while their road lay through the park, under old
forest trees that swayed continually in a rising gale; and somewhat
buffeted by the wind till they came to a narrow path sheltered by rows of
tall shrubs, on the thick foliage of which the rain, which had fallen at
intervals during the day, had collected, and now splashed in their faces
or fell in wetting drops upon their dresses as the bushes, struck by the
heavy gusts, swayed to and fro.

Angelica, whose nervous system was peculiarly susceptible to discomfort of
the kind, felt more wretched than ever. She thought of the desolate grave
with mud-splashed, bedraggled flowers upon it and of the golden head and
beautiful calm face beneath; thought of him as we are apt to think of our
dead at first, imagining them still sentient, aware of the horror of their
position, crushed into their narrow beds with a terrible weight of earth
upon them, left out alone in the cold, uncomforted and uncared for, while
those they loved and trusted most recline in easy chairs round blazing
fires, talking forgetfully. It was very sultry when we left Quebec, but about
noon we struck much clearer and cooler air, and soon after ran
into an immense wave or puff of fog that came drifting up the river
and set all the fog-guns booming along shore.

We were soon through it into clear, crisp space, with room enough for any
eye to range in.

On the south the shores of the great river appear low and uninteresting,
but on the north they are bold and striking enough to make it up,--high,
scarred, unpeopled mountain ranges the whole way. The points of interest
to the eye in the broad expanse of water were the white porpoises
that kept rolling, rolling in the distance, all day.

They came up like the perimeter of a great wheel that turns slowly
and then disappears.

From mid-forenoon we could see far ahead an immense column of yellow
smoke rising up and flattening out upon the sky and stretching away
beyond the horizon.

Its form was that of some aquatic plant that shoots a stem up through the
water, and spreads its broad leaf upon the surface. This smoky lily-pad
must have reached nearly to Maine. It proved to be in the Indian country
in the mountains beyond the mouth of the Saguenay, and must have represented
an immense destruction of forest timber.

The steamer is two hours crossing the St.

Lawrence from Rivière du Loup to Tadousac. The Saguenay pushes a broad sweep
of dark blue water down into its mightier brother that is sharply
defined from the deck of the steamer. The two rivers seem to touch,
but not to blend, so proud and haughty is this chieftain from the
north.

On the mountains above Tadousac one could see banks of sand left by the
ancient seas. Naked rock and sterile sand are all the Tadousacker has
to make his garden of, so far as I observed. Indeed, there is no soil along
the Saguenay until you get to Ha-ha Bay, and then there is not much, and
poor quality at that.

What the ancient fires did not burn the ancient seas have washed away.
I overheard an English resident say to a Yankee tourist, "You will
think you are approaching the end of the world up here."

It certainly did suggest something apocryphal or antemundane,--a segment of
the moon or of a cleft asteroid, matter dead or wrecked. The world-builders
must have had their foundry up in this neighborhood, and the bed of
this river was doubtless the channel through which the molten granite
flowed. Some mischief-loving god has let in the sea while things were
yet red-hot, and there has been a time here. But the channel still seems
filled with water from the mid-Atlantic, cold and blue-black, and in
places between seven and eight thousand feet deep (one and a half
miles).

In fact, the enormous depth of the Saguenay is one of the wonders of physical
geography. It is as great a marvel in its way as Niagara.

The ascent of the river is made by night, and the traveler finds himself in
Ha-ha Bay in the morning. The steamer lies here several hours before
starting on her return trip, and takes in large quantities of white birch
wood, as she does also at Tadousac.

The chief product of the country seemed to be huckleberries, of which
large quantities are shipped to Quebec in rude board boxes holding
about a peck each.

Little girls came aboard or lingered about the landing with cornucopias of
birch-bark filled with red raspberries; five cents for about half a
pint was the usual price. The village of St. Alphonse, where the steamer
tarries, is a cluster of small, humble dwellings dominated, like all
Canadian villages, by an immense church. Usually the church will
hold all the houses in the village; pile them all up and they would
hardly equal it in size; it is the one conspicuous object, and is
seen afar; and on the various lines of travel one sees many more
priests than laymen.

They appear to be about the only class that stir about and have a
good time.

Many of the houses were covered with birch-bark,--the canoe birch,--held
to its place by perpendicular strips of board or split poles.

A man with a horse and a buckboard persuaded us to give him twenty-five cents
each to take us two miles up the St. Alphonse River to see the salmon jump.
There is a high saw-mill dam there which every salmon in his upward
journey tries his hand at leaping. A raceway has been constructed around
the dam for their benefit, which it seems they do not use till they
have repeatedly tried to scale the dam.

The day before our visit three dead fish were found in the pool below,
killed by too much jumping. Those we saw had the jump about all taken out
of them; several did not get more than half their length out of
the water, and occasionally only an impotent nose would protrude
from the foam.

One fish made a leap of three or four feet and landed on an apron
of the dam and tumbled helplessly back; he shot up like a bird and
rolled back like a clod.

This was the only view of salmon, the buck of the rivers, we had
on our journey.

It was a bright and flawless midsummer day that we sailed down the
Saguenay, and nothing was wanting but a good excuse for being there.

The river was as lonely as the St.

John's road; not a sail or a smokestack the whole sixty-five miles.

The scenery culminates at Cape Trinity, where the rocks rise sheer from the
water to a height of eighteen hundred feet. This view dwarfed anything I
had ever before seen. There is perhaps nothing this side the Yosemite chasm
that equals it, and, emptied of its water, this chasm would far surpass
that famous cañon, as the river here is a mile and a quarter deep. The
bald eagle nests in the niches in the precipice secure from any
intrusion.

Immense blocks of the rock had fallen out, leaving areas of shadow
and clinging overhanging masses that were a terror and fascination
to the eye.

There was a great fall a few years ago, just as the steamer had passed
from under and blown her whistle to awake the echoes. The echo came back,
and with it a part of the mountain that astonished more than it delighted
the lookers-on.

The pilot took us close around the base of the precipice that we
might fully inspect it. And here my eyes played me a trick the like of
which they had never done before. One of the boys of the steamer brought
to the forward deck his hands full of stones, that the curious
ones among the passengers might try how easy it was to throw one
ashore.

"Any girl ought to do it," I said to myself, after a man had tried
and had failed to clear half the distance.

  Seizing a stone, I cast
  it with vigor and confidence, and as
  much expected to see it smite the rock
  as I expected to live. "It is a good while
  getting there," I mused, as I watched its
  course: down, down it went; there, it will ring upon the granite
in half a breath; no, down--into the water, a little more than
halfway!

"Has my arm lost its cunning?" I said, and tried again and again,
but with like result.
The eye was completely at fault. There was a new standard of size before
it to which it failed to adjust itself. The rock is so enormous and towers
so above you that you get the impression it is much nearer than
it actually is.

When the eye is full it says, "Here we are," and the hand is ready to prove
the fact; but in this case there is an astonishing discrepancy between
what the eye reports and what the hand finds out.

Cape Eternity, the wife of this colossus, stands across a chasm through
which flows a small tributary of the Saguenay, and is a head or two
shorter, as becomes a wife, and less rugged and broken in
outline.

From Rivière du Loup, where we passed the night and ate our first "Tommy-cods,"
our thread of travel makes a big loop around New Brunswick to St. John,
thence out and down through Maine to Boston,--a thread upon which many
delightful excursions and reminiscences might be strung. We traversed the
whole of the valley of the Metapedia, and passed the doors of many famous
salmon streams and rivers, and heard everywhere the talk they inspire;
one could not take a nap in the car for the excitement of the big
fish stories he was obliged to overhear.

The Metapedia is a most enticing-looking stream; its waters are as colorless
as melted snow; I could easily have seen the salmon in it as we
shot along, if they had come out from their hiding-places.

It was the first white-water stream we had seen since leaving the
Catskills; for all the Canadian streams are black or brown, either from
the iron in the soil or from the leechings of the spruce swamps.

But in New Brunswick we saw only these clear, silver-shod streams;
I imagined they had a different ring or tone also.

The Metapedia is deficient in good pools in its lower portions; its
limpid waters flowing with a tranquil murmur over its wide, evenly
paved bed for miles at a stretch.

The salmon pass over these shallows by night and rest in the pools by
day.
The Restigouche, which it joins, and which is a famous salmon stream
and the father of famous salmon streams, is of the same complexion
and a delight to look upon.

There is a noted pool where the two join, and one can sit upon the
railroad bridge and count the noble fish in the lucid depths below.

The valley here is fertile, and has a cultivated, well-kept look.

We passed the Jacquet, the Belledune, the Nepissisquit, the Miramichi
("happy retreat") in the night, and have only their bird-call names
to report.

INDEX

Anemone.

Angler, a born; eagerness of the.

Arbutus.

Asters.

Audubon, John James.

Aurora borealis, an.

Balsam Lake.

Barrington, Daines, his table of English song-birds.

Basswood, _or_ linden.

Bear, black.

Beaverkill, the; trouting on.

Bee. _See_ Bumblebee _and_ Honeybee.

Berries.

Berrying.

Big Ingin River.

Birch, yellow.

Birds, eyes of; imperfect singers among; human significance of; songs of
English; relative pugnaciousness of English and American; species
common to Europe and America; small and large editions of various
species of; their ingenuity in the concealment of their nests.

Birds of prey.

Biscuit Brook.

Blackbird, European; notes of.

Blackbird, red-winged. _See_ Starling, red-shouldered.

Bloodroot.

Bluebird (_Sialia sialis_), struggling with a cicada; courting; cares
of housekeeping; and screech owl; notes of; nest of.

Blunder-heads.

Bobolink (_Dolichonyx oryzivorus_); song of.

Boy.

  Brooks. _See_ Trout streams.
  
  Buckwheat.

Bumble-bee.

  
  Bunting, European, notes of.

Bunting, indigo. _See_ Indigo-bird.

Bunting, snow, or snowflake (_Passerina nivalis_).

Butcher-bird, or northern shrike (_Lanius borealis_); appearance and
habits of; notes of. _See_ Shrike.

Buttercup.

Camp, a thunder-storm in; in the rain; books in.

  Camp-fire, the.
  
  Camping, by trout stream and lake;
  in a log stable; pleasures and discomforts of; in the Catskills;
thoughts of the camper; in Canada.

Canada, an excursion in; dwelling-houses in; churches in.

Cape Eternity.

Cape Trinity.

Caribou.

Catbird (_Galeoscoptes carolinensis_), song of.

Catfish and snake.

Catnip.

Catskill Mountains, camping in.

Cattle, in Canada.

Cedar-bird, _or_ cedar waxwing (_Ampelis cedrorum_), a small edition
of the Bohemian waxwing; plumage of; notes of.

Chickadee (_Parus atricapillus_); notes of.

Chipmunk, frightened by a shrike; stealing strawberries; playing
tag; never more than one jump from home.

Clouds, natural history of; rain-clouds and wind-clouds.

Clover, red.

Clover, white.

Coon. _See_ Raccoon.

Corn, Indian.

Corydalis.

Crossbills.

Crow, American (_Corvus brachyrhynchos_); notes of.

Crow, fish (_Corvus ossifragus_), a sneak thief.

Cuckoo (_Coccyzus_ sp.), parents, eggs, and young; breeding habits of;
appearance and habits of; notes of; nest of.

Cuckoo, European; in literature; notes of.

Daisy, ox-eye.

Dandelion.

Deer, Virginia.

Delaware River.

Dove, mourning (_Zenaidura macroura_).

Drought.

Ducks, wild, voices of.

Eagle, bald (_Haliaëtus leucocephalus_); nest of.

Esopus Creek.

Eyes, of man; of birds.

Farmer, an observing.
Farmers, their dependence on the weather; weather-wisdom of.
Fieldfare; notes of.
Finch, purple (_Carpodacus purpureus_), the alter ego of the pine
grosbeak; song of.

Fishing. _See_ Trout-fishing.
Flicker. _See_ High-hole.

Flies, black.
Flycatcher, great crested (_Myiarchus crinitus_); nest of.
Forest, a spruce; a burnt.

Fox, red, bark of.

French Canadians.
Ghost story, a.

Girl's voice, a.
Goethe, on the weather.

Goldenrod.
Goldfinch, American (_Astragalinus tristis_), a shrike in a flock
of.

Goose, wild _or_ Canada (_Branta canadensis_), notes of.
Grande Brûlure, La.

Greenfinch.
Grosbeak, blue (_Guiraca cærulea_), its resemblance to the indigo-bird;
song of; nest of.
Grosbeak, pine (_Pinicola enucleator leucura_); appearance and
habits of; song of.

Grouse, ruffed. _See_ Partridge.
Grouse, spruce _or_ Canada (_Canachites canadensis canace_).
Guide, a Canadian.

Hawk, worried by the kingbird. _See_ Hen-hawk.
Hawk, chicken, a provident.
Hawk, fish, _or_ American osprey (_Pandion haliaëtus
carolinensis_).
Hen-hawk, a love passage; in cubating habits.

Hepatica.
Highfall Brook.
High-hole, _or_ golden-shafted woodpecker, _or_ flicker (_Colaptes
auratus luteus_), a household of; a tame young one; nest of.
Honey, as an article of food; with the ancients and in mythology;
of various countries.
Honey-bee, gathering honey and pollen; wax-making; life of the
drone; life of the queen; democratic government; description of
queen and drone; swarming; wildness of; favorite hives; mortality
of; acuteness of sight.

Honey-locust.

Horse-fly.
Hummingbird, ruby-throated (_Trochilus colubris_), strange death
of a; nest of.

Hyla, Pickering's, in the woods.
Indigo-bird, or indigo bunting (_Cyanospiza cyanea_), a petit
duplicate of the blue grosbeak; song of; nest of.
Jackdaw, nest of.

Jacques Cartier River, trouting on.
Jay, blue (_Cyanocitta cristata_); worrying a screech owl.
Jay, Canada (_Perisoreus canadensis_).
Jay, European, notes of.

Junco, slate-colored. _See_ Snowbird.
Kingbird (_Tyrannus tyrannus_), worrying hawks.
Kingfisher, belted (_Ceryle alcyon_); notes of; nest of.
Kinglet (_Regulus sp._).

La Chance.
Lake, nature as seen from a; life in and about a.
Lake Jacques Cartier, Great; an excursion to.
Lake Jacques Cartier, Little; trout-fishing in.

Lake Memphremagog.
Lake St. John.

Lark. _See_ Skylark.
Lark, shore _or_ horned (_Otocoris alpestris_).
Ledges, the fascination of.

Lily, spotted.
Linden. _See_ Basswood.

Locusts, as an article of food.
Longspur, Lapland (_Calcarius lapponicus_).
Loon (_Gavia imber_); laughter of.

Maiden, a backwoods.
Maple, red.

Maple, sugar.

Marigold, marsh.
Marmot. _See_ Woodchuck.

Meadowlark (_Sturnella magna_).
Metapedia River.

Midges.
Mockingbird (_Mimus polyglottos_); song of.
Montmorenci, Falls of.

Moose.

Morancy River.
Mountains, poetry of.

Mouse, common house.
Neversink River, trouting on; trouting on the East Branch of.
New Brunswick, journey through; streams of.
Nightingale, notes of.

Observation, powers and habits of.
Oriole, Baltimore (_Icterus galbula_), nest of.
Osprey, American. _See_ Hawk, fish.

Ouzel, ring.
Oven-bird (_Seiurus aurocapillus_).
Owl, screech (_Megascops asio_), worried by other birds; in captivity;
wail of.

Panther, American, cry of.
Partridge, _or_ ruffed grouse (_Bonasa umbellus_).

Peakamoose.
Pewee, wood (_Contopus virens_), notes of.
Phoebe-bird (_Sayornis phoebe_); nest of.
Pigeon, passenger (_Ectopistes migratorius_); nests of.
Pipit, American, _or_ titlark (_Anthus pensilvanicus_).
Porcupine, Canada, adventure with a; description of; his armor of
quills; at Balsam Lake.

Porpoise, white.

Quebec.
Raccoon, or coon, voice of; den of.
Rain, waves and pulsations of; history of; relaxing effect of;
necessary to the mind; after drought; importance to man of an
abundance; curious things reported to have fallen in; the formation
of; storms; effect of electricity on; in winter and spring; signs
of; in camp. _See_ Thunder-storms and Weather.
Raspberry, red.

Rat.

Rat, wood.

Redpoll (_Acanthis linaria_).
Redstart, European, nest of.

Redwing.

Restigouche River.
Rivière du Loup.
Robin, American (_Merula migratoria_); notes of.
Robin redbreast, song of.
Rondout Creek; camping and trouting on.

Rose.

Rye.
Saguenay River, scenery of.

St. Alphonse.
St. Lawrence; down the.

Salmon.
Sapsucker, yellow-bellied. _See_ Woodpecker,
yellow-bellied.

Scenery-hunting.

Schoolhouse, a country.
Shakespeare, quotations from; power and beauty in his poetry.
Shanly, C. D., his poem, _The Walker of the Snow._
Shrike (_Lanius_ sp.).

Shrike, northern. _See_ Butcherbird.

Silkweed.
Skunk, den of.

Skylark, song of.

Snake, and catfish.

Snapdragon.
Snow, a sign of.
Snowbird, _or_ slate-colored junco (_Junco hyemalis_).

Snowflake.Show up, expose, make evident. Let
in knowledge, the light--"

But here her grandfather arose. The evening was to end with service in the
chapel. "Will you come, Angelica?" he asked. "Do you feel equal to the
exertion?"

"Oh, yes," Angelica answered indifferently, letting herself go again to
drift with the stream.

The private chapel at Morne was lavishly decorated, an ideal shrine the
beauty of which alone would have inclined your heart to prayer and praise
by reason of the pleasure it gave you, and of the desire, which is always
apart of this form of pleasure, to express your gratitude in some sort.

On this occasion the altar was brilliantly illuminated, and as she passed
in before Lord Dawne, she was attracted like a child by the light, and
stationed herself so as to see it fully, admiring it as a spectator, but
only so. The scene, although familiar, was always impressive, being so
beautiful; and as she settled herself on a chair apart her spirit revived
under its influence enough to enable her to entertain the hope that, by
force of habit and association, that sensation of well-being which is due
to the refined and delicate flattery of the senses, a soothing without
excitement, merging in content, and restful to the verge of oblivion,
would steal over her and gradually possess her to the exclusion of all
importunate and painful thought. And this was what happened.

It came at a pause in the service when the people bent their heads, and
seemed to wait; or rather followed upon that impressive moment as did the
organ prelude, and the first notes of a glorious voice--the voice of a
woman who suddenly sang.

Angelica looked up amazed by the fervour of it, while a feeling, not new,
but strange from its intensity, took possession of her, steeping her soul
in bliss, a feeling that made her both tremble and be glad. She thought no
more of the lonely grave, but of an angel in ecstasy, an angel in heaven.
She looked around, she raised her eyes to the altar, she tried to seize
upon some idea which should continue with her, and be a key with which she
could unlock this fountain of joy hereafter when she would. She almost
felt for the moment as if it would be worthy to grovel for such opium at
the knees of an oleosaccharine priest and contribute to his support
forever. She tried to think of something to which to compare the feeling,
but in vain. In the effort to fix it her mind and memory became a blank,
and for a blissful interval she could not think, she could only feel. Then
came the inevitable moment of grateful acknowledgment when her senses
brought of their best to pay for their indulgence--their best on this
occasion being that vow to Israfil which presently she found herself
renewing. She would indeed be true.

After this surfeit of sensuous distraction she retired to her room, the
old room, as far away from Diavolo's as possible, which she had always
occupied at the castle. She dismissed her maid, and sat down to think; but
she was suffering from nervous irritability by this time, and could not
rest. She drew up a blind and looked out of the open window. The night was
calm, the air was freshly caressing, a crescent moon hung in the indigo
sky, and there were stars, bright stars. Up from the pine woods which
clothed the castle hill balsamic airs were wafted, and murmurs came as of
voices inviting--friendly voices of nature claiming a kinship with her,
which she herself had recognized from her earliest childhood. Out there in
the open was the unpolluted altar at which she was bidden to worship, and
in view of that, with the healthy breath of night expanding her lungs
revivingly, she felt that her late experiences, in the midst of perfumes
too sweet to be wholesome, and with the help of accessories too luxurious
to be anything but enervating, had been degrading to that better part of
her to which the purity and peace of night appealed. She would go shrive
herself in haunted solitudes, and listen to the voice which spoke to her
heart alone, saying "Only be true," in the silence of those scenes
incomparable which tend to reverence, promote endeavour, and prolong love.

She went to her door, opened it, looked out, and listened. The corridor
was all in darkness; an excessive silence pervaded the place; the whole
household had apparently retired.

With confident steps, although in the dark, Angelica went to Diavolo's
room, and presently returned with a suit of his clothes. These she put on,
and then, without haste, went downstairs, crossed the hall, opened a
narrow door which led into a dark, damp, flagged passage, along which she
groped for some distance, then descended a crooked stone staircase at the
foot of which was a heavy door. This she opened with a key, careless of
the noise she made, and found herself out in the open air, under the
stars, on a gravel walk, with a broad lawn stretched before her. She stood
a moment, breathing deeply in pure enjoyment of the air, then put up both
hands to rearrange a little cloth cap she wore which was slipping from off
her abundant hair. Then she threw up her arms and stretched every limb in
the joy of perfect freedom from restraint; and then with strong bounds she
cleared the grassy space, dashed down a rocky step, and found herself a
substance amongst the shadows out in the murmuring woods.

When she returned she was making less vigorous demonstrations of
superabundant strength and vitality, but still her step was swift, firm,
and elastic; and she was running up the grand staircase from the hall when
she saw that the door at the top, leading into the suite of rooms occupied
by Lord Dawne when he was at the castle, was wide open, showing the room
beyond, brilliantly lighted.

She would have to pass that open door or stay downstairs till it was shut;
but the latter she did not feel inclined to do, so, with scarcely a pause
to nerve herself for what might happen, she continued rapidly to ascend
the stairs.

As she expected, when she reached the top, her uncle appeared.

"Oh!" he exclaimed in surprise, seeing Diavolo as he supposed emerging
from the darkness. "I thought it was Angelica's step. I fancied I heard
her go down some time ago, and I have been waiting for her. She complained
of not feeling well this evening, and I thought she might possibly want
something. Come in." He had turned to lead the way as he spoke.
"By-the-bye," he broke off, "what are you doing here, you young rascal?"

Angelica, overcome by one of her mischievous impulses, and grinning
broadly, boldly followed her uncle into the room.

"I had forgotten for a moment that you ought not to be here, it is so
natural to find you marauding about the place at night," he pursued,
bending down to adjust the wick of a lamp that was flaring as he spoke.
Angelica sat down, and coolly waited for him to turn and look at her,
which he did when he had done with the lamp, meeting her dark eyes
unsuspectingly at first, then with fixed attention inquiringly.

"Angelica!" he exclaimed. "How can you!"

"I have been out in the woods," she rejoined with her accustomed candour.
"The suffocating fumes of incense and orthodoxy overpowered me in the
chapel, and I was miserable besides--soul-sick. But the fresh air is a
powerful tonic, and it has exhilarated me, the stars have strengthened me,
the voices of the night spoke peace to me, and the pleasant creatures,
visible and invisible, gave me welcome as one of themselves, and showed me
how to attain to their joy in life." She bent forward to brush some fresh
earth from the leg of her trousers. "But you would have me forego these
innocent, healthy-minded, invigorating exercises, I suppose, because I am
a woman," she pursued. "You would allow Diavolo to disport himself so at
will, and approve rather than object, although he is not so strong as I
am. And then these clothes, which are decent and convenient for him,
besides being a greater protection than any you permit me to wear, you
think immodest for me--you mass of prejudice."

Lord Dawne made no reply. He had taken a seat, and remained with his eyes
fixed on the floor for some seconds after she had spoken. There was
neither agreement nor dissent in his attitude, however; he was simply
reflecting,

"What is it, Angelica?" he said at last, looking her full in the face,

"What is what?" she asked defiantly.

"What Is the matter?" he answered, "There is something wrong, I see, and
if it is anything that you would like to talk about--I don't pretend to
offer yon advice, but sometimes when one speaks--you know, however, what a
comfort it is to 'talk a thing out,' as you used to call it when you were
a little girl." He looked at her and smiled. When she entered the room
fresh from the open air a brilliant colour glowed in her cheeks, but now
she was pale to her lips, which, perceiving, caused him to rise hastily,
and add: "But I am afraid you have tired yourself, and"--glancing at the
clock--"it is nearly breakfast time. I'll go and get you something."

After a considerable interval he returned with a tray upon which was a
plentiful variety of refreshments, prawns in aspic jelly, cold chicken and
tongue, a freshly opened tin of _paté de foie gras_, cake, bread,
butter, and champagne.

"I think I've brought everything," he remarked, surveying the tray
complacently when he had put it down upon a table beside her.

"You've forgotten the salt," snapped Angelica,

His complacency vanished, and he retired apologetically to remedy the
omission.

"Do you remember the night you and Diavolo taught me where to find food in
my father's house?" he asked when he returned.

"Yes," Angelica answered with a grin; and then she expanded into further
reminiscences of that occasion, by which time she was in such a good
humour that she began to feel hungry, and under the stimulating influences
of food and champagne she told her uncle the whole story of her intimacy
with the Tenor.

Lord Dawne listened with interest, but almost in silence. The occasion was
not one, as it appeared to him, which it would be well to improve. He
discussed the matter with her, however, as well as he could without
offering her advice or expressing an opinion of her conduct; and, in
consequence of this wise forbearance on his part, she found herself the
better in every way for the interview.


CHAPTER VII.


Angelica awoke unrefreshed after a few hours of light and restless sleep,
much broken by dreams. "Dead! dead!" was the first thought in her mind,
but it came unaccompanied by any feeling. "Is Israfil really dead--buried--
gone from us all forever?" she asked herself in a kind of wonder. It was
not at the thought of his death that she was wondering, however, but
because the recollection of it did not move her in any way. Reflections
which had caused her the sharpest misery only yesterday recurred to her
now without affecting her in the least degree--except in that they made
her feel herself to be a kind of monster of callousness, coldness, and
egotism. The lonely grave, looking deserted already, with the
rain-bespattered, mud-bedraggled flowers fading upon it; the man himself
as she had known him; his goodness, his kindness, the disinterested
affection he had lavished upon her--she dwelt upon these things; she
racked her brain to recall them in order to reawaken her grief and
remorse, but in vain. Mind and memory responded to the effort, but her own
heart she could not touch. The acute stage was over for the moment, and a
most distressing numbness, attended by a sense of chilliness and general
physical discomfort, had succeeded it. The rims of her eyes were red and
the lids still swollen by the tears of the day before; but the state of
weeping, with the nervous energy and mental excitement which had been the
first consequence of the shock, was a happy one compared with the dry
inhuman apathy of this, and she strove to recall it, but only succeeded in
adding the old sensation of discontent with everything as it is and
nothing is worth while to her already deep depression. She loved order and
regularity in a household, but now the very thought of the old accustomed
dull routine of life at the castle exasperated her. After her grandfather
would come her uncle, and after him in all human probability Diavolo would
succeed, and there would be a long succession of solemn servants, each
attending to the same occupations which had been carried on by other
servants in the same place for hundreds of years; horrible monotony, all
tending to nothing! For she saw as in a vision the end of the race to
which she belonged. They and their like were doomed, and, with them, the
distinguished bearing, the high-bred reserve, the refined simplicity and
dignity of manner which had held them above the common herd, a class
apart, until she came, were also doomed, "I am of the day," she said to
herself; "the vulgar outcome of a vulgar era, bred so, I suppose, that I
may see through others, which is to me the means of self-defence, I see
that in this dispute of 'womanly or unwomanly,' the question to be asked
is, not 'What is the pursuit?' but 'What are the proceeds?' No social
law-maker ever _said_ 'Catch me letting a woman into anything that
pays!' It was left for me to translate the principle into the vernacular."

She breakfasted upstairs so that she might not have to talk, but went down
immediately afterward in order to find somebody to speak to, so rapid were
the alternations of her moods. It was not in Angelica's nature to conceal
anything she had done from her friends for long, and before she had been
twenty-four hours at the castle she had taken her Aunt Claudia, and the
lady known to them all intimately as "Ideala," into her confidence; but
neither of them attempted to improve the occasion. They said even less
than her uncle had done, and this reticence perplexed Angelica. She would
have liked them to make much of her wickedness, to have reasoned with her,
lectured her, and incited her to argue. She did not perceive, as they did,
that she was one of those who must work out their own salvation in fear
and trembling, and she was angry with them because they continued their
ordinary avocations as if nothing had happened when everything had gone so
wrong with her,

The weary day dragged its slow length along. A walk about the grounds,
luncheon, a long drive, calling at Ilverthorpe on the way back for letters;
afternoon tea with her grandfather in the oriel room, and afterward the
accustomed wait with bowed head for the chime, which floated up at last
from afar, distinct, solemn, slow, and weary like the voice of one who
vainly repeats a blessed truth to ears that will not hear:

[Illustration: (musical notation); lyrics: He, watch-ing o-ver Is--ra--el,
slumbers not, nor sleeps.]

Her grandfather raised his velvet cap, and held it above his bald head
while he repeated the words aloud, after which he muttered a prayer for
the restoration of "Holy Church," then rose, and, leaning heavily on his
ebony stick, walked from the room with the springless step of age,
accompanied by his daughter Claudia and his son, and followed by two deer
hounds, old and faithful friends who seldom left him. When the door closed
upon this little procession, Angelica found herself alone with her aunt
Lady Fulda, to whom she had not spoken since the day before. They were
sitting near to each other, Angelica being in the window, from whence she
had looked down upon the tree-tops and the distant city while they waited
for the chime, the melancholy cadence of which had added something to the
chill misery of her mood.

"Do you still believe it?" she asked ironically, and then felt as if she
were always asking that question in that tone.

Lady Fulda had also looked about as she listened, but now she left the
window, and, taking a seat opposite to Angelica, answered bravely, her
face lighting up as she spoke: "I do believe it."

"Then why did he let a man like that die?" Angelica asked defiantly. "Why
did he create such a man at all merely to kill him? Wouldn't a commoner
creature have done as well?"

"We are not told that any creature is common in his sight," Lady Fulda
answered gently. "But suppose they were, would a common creature have
produced the same effect upon you?"

"Do you mean to say you think he was created to please me--"

"Oh, no, not that," Lady Fulda hastily interposed, and Angelica,
perceiving that she had at last found somebody who would kindly improve
the occasion, turned round from the window, and settled herself for a
fray. "And I don't mean," Lady Fulda pursued, "I dare not presume to
question; but still--oh, I must say it! Your heart has been very hard.
Would anything but death have touched you so? Had not every possible
influence been vainly tried before that to soften you?"

Angelica smiled disagreeably. "You are insinuating that he died for me, to
save my soul," she politely suggested.

Her aunt took no notice of the sneer. "Oh, not for you alone," she
answered earnestly; "but for all the hundreds upon whom you, in your
position, and with your attractions, will bring the new power of your
goodness to bear. You cannot think, with all your scepticism, that such a
man has lived and died for nothing. You must have some knowledge or idea
of the consequences of such a life in such a world, of the influence for
good of a great talent employed as his was, the one as an example and the
other as a power to inspire and control."

Angelica did not attempt to answer this, and there was a pause; then she
began again; "I did grasp something of what you mean, I saw for a moment
the beauty of holiness, and the joy of it continued with me for a little.
Then I went to tell Israfil. I was determined to be true, and I should
have been true had I not lost him; but now my heart is harder than ever,
and I shall be worse than I was before."

"Oh, no!" her aunt exclaimed, "you are deceiving yourself. If you had
found him there that day, your good resolutions would only have lasted
until you had bound him to you--enslaved him; and then, although you would
have carefully avoided breaking the letter of the law, you would have
broken the spirit; you would have tried to fascinate him, and bring him
down to your own level; you would have made him loathe himself, and then
you would have mocked him."

"Like the evil-minded heroine of a railway novel!" Angelica began, then
added doggedly: "You wrong me, Aunt Fulda. There is no one whose respect I
valued more. There is nothing in right or reason I would not have done to
win it--that is to say, if there had been anything I could have done. But
I do not think now that there was." This last depressing thought brought
about another of those rapid revulsions of feeling to which she had been
subject during these latter days, and she broke off for a moment, then
burst out afresh to just the opposite effect: "I do not know, though. I am
not sure of anything. Probably you are right, and I deceived myself. I
inherit bad principles from my ancestors, and it may be that I can no more
get rid of them than I could get rid of the gout or any other hereditary
malady, by simply resolving to cure myself. It is different with you. You
were born good. I was born bad, and delight in my wickedness."

"Angelica!" her aunt remonstrated, "do not talk in that reckless way."

"Well, I exaggerate," Angelica allowed, veering again, as the wind does in
squally weather before it sets steadily from a single quarter. "But what
have I done after all that you should take me to task so seriously? Wrong,
certainly; but still I have not broken a single commandment."

"Not one of the Decalogue, perhaps; but you have sinned against the whole
spirit of uprightness. Has it never occurred to you that you may keep the
ten commandments strictly, and yet be a most objectionable person? You
might smoke, drink, listen at doors, repeat private conversations, open
other people's letters, pry amongst their papers, be vulgar and offensive
in conversation, and indecent in dress--altogether detestable, if your
code of morality were confined to the ten commandments. But why will you
talk like this, Angelica? Why will you be so defiant, when your heart is
breaking, as I know it is?"

Angelica hid her face in her hands with one dry sob that made her whole
frame quiver.

"Oh, do not be so hard!" the other woman implored. "Listen to your own
heart, listen to all that is best in yourself; you have good impulses
enough, I know you have; and you have been called to the Higher Life more
than once, but you would not hear."

"Yes"--thoughtfully--"but it is no use--no help. I never profit by
experiences because I don't object to things while they are happening. It
is only afterward, when all the excitement is over and I have had time to
reflect, that I become dissatisfied." And she threw herself back in her
easy-chair, crossed one leg over the other so as to display a fair amount
of slender foot and silk-clocked stocking, as it is the elegant fashion of
the day to do; clasped her hands behind her head, and fixed her eyes on
the ceiling, being evidently determined to let the subject drop.

Lady Fulda compressed her lips. She was baffled, and she was perplexed. A
quarter rang from the city clocks. "Do you know," she began again, "I have
a fancy--many people have--that a time comes to us all--an hour when we
are called upon to choose between good and evil. It is a quarter since we
heard the chime--"

"Only a quarter!" Angelica ejaculated. "It seems an age!"

"But suppose this is your hour," Lady Fulda patiently pursued. "One
precious quarter of it has gone already, and still you harden your heart.
You are asked to choose now, you are called to the Higher Life; you must
know that you are being called--specially--this moment. And what if it
should be for the last time? What if, after this, you are deprived of the
power to choose, and forced by that which is evil in you to wander away
from ail that is good and pure and pleasant into the turmoil and trouble,
the falseness, the illusion, and the maddening unrest of the other life?
You know it all. You can imagine what it would be when that last loophole
of escape, upon which we all rely--perhaps unconsciously--was closed, when
you knew you never could return; when you came to be shut out from hope, a
prey to remorse, a tired victim compelled to pursue excitement, and always
to pursue it, descending all the time, and finding it escape you more and
more till at last even that hateful resource was lost to you, and you
found yourself at the end of the road to perdition, a worn out woman, face
to face with despair!"

Angelica slowly unclasped her hands from behind her head, let her chin
sink on her chest, and looked up from under her eyebrows at her aunt. Her
eyes were bright, but otherwise her face was as still as a statue's, and
what she thought or felt it was impossible to say. "It is idle to talk of
choice," she answered coldly. "I _had_ chosen--honestly, I told you;
you see what has come of it!"

"Forgive me," said Lady Fulda, "but you had not chosen _honestly_.
You had not chosen the better life--to lead it for its own sake, but for
his. You wanted to bring yourself nearer to him, and you would have made
goodness a means to that end if you could. But you see it was not the
right way, and it has not succeeded."

Angelica sat up, and the dull look left her face. She seemed interested.
"You see through all my turpitude," she observed, affecting to smile,
although in truth she was more moved than her pride would allow her to
show.

Her aunt sighed, seeing no sign of softening. She feared it was labour
lost, but still she felt impelled to try once more before she renounced
the effort. She was nervous about it, however, being naturally diffident,
and hesitated, trying to collect her thoughts; and in the interval the
evening shadows deepened, the half hour chimed from the city clocks, and
then she spoke. "Just think," she said sadly--"Just think what it will be
when you have gone from here this evening--if you carry out your
determination and return after dinner; just think what it will be when you
find yourself alone again in that great house with the night before you;
and your aching heart, and your bitter thoughts, and the remorse which
gnaws without ceasing, for companions; and not one night of it only but
all the years to come, and every phase of it; from the sharp pain of this
moment to the dull discontent in which it ends and from which nothing on
earth will rouse you; think of yourself then without comfort and without
hope." Angelica changed her position uneasily. "You still hesitate," Lady
Fulda continued; "you are loath to commit yourself; you would rather not
choose; you prefer to believe yourself a puppet at the mercy of a
capricious demon who moves you this way and that as the idle fancy seizes
him. But you are no puppet. You have the right of choice; you _must_
choose; and, having chosen, if you look up, the Power Divine will be
extended to you to support you, or--but either way your choice will at
once become a force for good or evil."

She ended abruptly, and then there was another long pause.

Angelica's mind was alive to everything--to the rustle of summer foliage
far below; to the beauty of the woman before her, to the power of her
presence, to the absolute integrity which was so impressive in all she
said, to her high-bred simplicity, to the grace of her attitude at that
moment as she sat with an elbow on the arm of her chair, covering her eyes
with, one white hand; to the tearless turmoil in her own breast, the sense
of suffering not to be relieved, the hopeless ache. Was there any way of
escape from herself? Her conscience whispered one. But was there only one?
The struggle of the last few days had recommenced; was it to go on like
this forever and ever, over and over again? What a prospect! And, oh! to
be able to end it! somehow! anyhow! Oh, for the courage to choose! but she
must choose, she knew that; Aunt Fulda was right, her hour had come. The
momentous question had been asked, and it must be answered once for all.
If she should refuse to take the hand held out to help her now, where
would she drift to eventually? Should she end by consorting with people
like--and she thought of an odious woman; or come to be talked of at
clubs, named lightly by low men--and she thought of some specimens of that
class. But why should she arrive at any decision? Why should she feel
compelled to adopt a settled plan of action? Why could she not go on as
she had done hitherto? Was there really no standing still? Were people
really rising or sinking always, doing good or evil? Why, no, for what
harm had she done? Quick, answering to the question with a pang, the rush
of recollection caught her, and again the vow, made, and forgotten for the
moment, as soon as made, burned in her heart: "Israfil! Israfil! only
forgive me, and I will be true."

She did not wait to think again. The mere repetition was a renewal of her
vow, and in the act she had unconsciously decided.

Slipping from her chair to the ground, she laid her head on Lady Fulda's
lap.

"I wish I could be sure of myself," she said, sighing deeply. "You must
help me, Aunt Fulda."

"Now the dear Lord help you," was the soft reply.

And almost at the same moment, the city clocks began to strike, and they
both raised their heads involuntarily, waiting for the chime.

It rang at last with a new significance for Angelica. The hour was over
which had been her hour; a chapter of her life had closed with it forever;
and when she looked up then, she found herself in another world, wherein
she would walk henceforth with other eyes to better purpose.


CHAPTER VIII.


Angelica drove back to Ilverthorpe alone directly after dinner, and went
straight to bed. She slept from ten o'clock that night, till the next
morning, and awoke to the consciousness that the light of day was garish,
that she herself was an insignificant trifle on the face of the earth, and
that everything was unsatisfactory.

"Now, had I been the heroine of a story," she said to herself, "it would
have been left to the reader's imagination to suppose that I remained
forever in the state of blissful exaltation up to which Aunt Fulda wound
me by her eloquence yesterday. Here I am already, however--with my
intentions still set fair, I believe--but in spirit, oh, so flat! a siphon
of soda-water from which the gas has escaped. Well, I suppose it must be
recharged, that is all. Oh, dear! I _am_ so tired. Just five minutes
more, Angelica dear, take five minutes more!" She closed her eyes. "I'm
glad I'm the mistress and not the maid--am I though? Poor Elizabeth! It
spoils my comfort just to think of her always obliged to be up and
dressed--with a racking headache, perhaps, hardly able to rise, but forced
to drag herself up somehow nevertheless to wait upon worthless selfish me.
Live for others"--Here, however, thought halted, grew confused, ceased
altogether for an imperceptible interval, and was then succeeded by vivid
dreams. She fancied that she had wavered in her new resolutions, and gone
back to her old idea. If the conditions of life were different, _she_
would be different, in spirit and in truth, instead of only in outward
seeming as now appeared to be the case. She was doing no good in the world;
her days were steeped in idleness; her life was being wasted. Surely it
would be a creditable thing for her to take her violin, and make it what
it was intended to be, a delight to thousands. Such genius as hers was
never meant for the benefit of a little circle only, but for the world at
large, and all she wanted was to fulfil the end and object of her being by
going to work. She said so to Mr. Kilroy, and he made no objection, which,
surprised her, for always hitherto he had expressed himself strongly on
the subject even to the extent of losing his temper on one occasion. Now,
however, he heard her in silence, with his eyes fixed on the floor, and
when she had said her say he uttered not a word, but just rose from his
seat with a deep sigh--almost a groan--and a look of weariness and
perplexity in his eyes that smote her to the heart, and slowly left the
room.

"I make his life a burden to him," she said to herself. "I can do nothing
right. I wish I was dead. I do." And then she followed him to the library.

He was sitting at his writing table with his arms folded upon it, and his
face bowed down and hidden on them, and he did not move when she entered.

The deep dejection of his attitude frightened her. She hastened to him,
knelt down beside him, and putting her arms round his neck drew him toward
her; and then he looked at her, trying to smile, but a more miserable face
she had never beheld.

"O Daddy, Daddy," she cried remorsefully, "I didn't mean to vex you. I'll
never play in public as long as I live--there! I promise you."

"I don't wish you to make rash promises," he answered hoarsely. "But if
you could care for me a little--"

"Daddy--_dear_--I do care for you. I do, indeed," she protested. "I
like to know you are here. I like to be able to come to you when--whenever
I like. I cannot do without you. If anything happened to you--"

The shock of such a dreadful possibility awoke her. She was less refreshed
than she had been when she first opened her eyes that morning, but she
sprang out of bed in an instant. The blinds were up and the windows open
as usual; the sun had spun round to the south, and now streamed hotly in,
making her feel belated.

"Elizabeth!" she called, then went to the bell and rang it, standing a
moment when she had done so, and looking down as if to consider the
blurred reflection of her bare white feet on the polished floor; but only
for an instant, for the paramount feeling that possessed her was one of
extreme haste. The painful impression of that dream was still vividly
present with her, and she wanted to do _something,/i> but what precisely
she did not wait to ask herself. All lecturers must quit our realm
without delay; The circus-men and clowns, on pain of death, must stay; All
folks who frown on fun, at once must banished be:
Now, fellow, that you know my will, to its fulfilment see!

ALFRED SELWYN.

[Illustration]

A TRUE ANTELOPE STORY.

Some time ago, I told the readers of "The Nursery" about catching a buffalo-calf.
I will now tell them about a young antelope which we caught,
and another which we almost caught.

Tip and I were in that part of Western Kansas which is left blank on the
maps. Two hunters, Thompson and Hughes, had joined us; and we were coming
back from a buffalo-chase. We had been crawling lazily along, over
prairie, through valley, up and down hill, since sunrise, and it was now
nearly noon.

All of a sudden, from a clump of tall grass near us, up sprung an antelope
and a pair of beautiful fawns. Like a flash, the old one and one of the
fawns started over the brow of the ridge on which they were lying;
while the other little fellow began running around in a circle, as
you have seen ponies do at the circus, bleating as hard as he could.

The boys leaped from the wagons in an instant, while I remained to hold the
horses.

Ranging themselves around the circle, the three hunters every now and then,
dashed headlong after the fawn as he flew past; but missed him by
a rod or more every time.

Our dog Landy, also, was on hand for the fun; and it was a laughable sight
to see the great awkward fellow straining every nerve to overtake the
little streak of animated lightning that flashed before him.

Landy was a Newfoundland shepherd, and I knew that nothing could induce
him to hurt the fawn if he should catch him.

While I was watching the sport, and laughing at the drollery of it,
all at once I heard a stamping on the other side of the wagon, and,
stepping quickly around the horses' heads, I saw the old doe, and
a buck and doe with her.

[Illustration]
As the fawn came bounding along the circle, the buck and does, bleating
anxiously, darted in ahead of him, rushing right by the men
and dog.
Never stopping an instant, the big buck led the way, the does
and fawn followed; and, before you could say "Jack Robinson," they were
"over the hills, and far away."
This was the antelope that we _almost_ caught. The boys came back to the
wagons, thoroughly fagged out, and looking painfully silly.

Again we drove along, but had not proceeded more than a mile or two, when
up sprung another old doe, and ran toward Landy, stamping her fore-foot
fiercely. Of course the foolish dog took after her as hard as he
could go,--just as she wanted him to do; and a fine chase she led
him, always taking care not to leave him so far behind as to
discourage him, and make him turn back.
We knew at once by her actions that she had a fawn near there; and
so, while she was leading Landy away from it, we set about hunting
it up. In a few minutes, I came across the little slender-legged
beauty, snugly curled up under a tuft of grass. As I came upon him,
he dashed out of cover with a shrill, plaintive little "baa-baa,
baa-baa," and, as fawns always do in such cases, began running in
a small circle.But need he ever know? The
question was answered as soon as asked, for Angelica felt in her heart
that she could bear to lose him and live alone better than be beside him
with that invisible barrier of a deception always between them to keep
them apart. It was a need of her nature to be known for what she was
exactly to those with whom she lived.

The train drew up at the terminus, and the moment she moved she was again
conscious of that terrible feeling of haste which had beset her more or
less the whole day long.

"No one to meet thee?" the Quaker lady said.

"No, I am not expected," Angelica answered, with her hand on the handle of
the door. "I am a bad wife in a state of repentance, going to give a good
husband an unpleasant surprise." She sprang from the carriage, hastened
across the platform, and got into a hansom, telling the man to drive
"quick! quick!"

On arriving at the house she entered unannounced, after some little
opposition from a new manservant who did not know her by sight, and was
evidently inclined to believe her to be an impostor bent on pillage. This
check on the threshold caused her to feel deeply humiliated.

Her husband happened to be crossing the hall at the time, but he went on
without noticing the arrival at the door, and she followed him to his
study. Unconscious of her presence, he passed into the room before her
with a heavy step, and as she noted this it seemed to her that she saw him
now for the first time as he really was--of good figure and quiet
undemonstrative manners; faultlessly dressed; distinguished in appearance,
upon the whole, if not actually handsome; a man of position and means,
accustomed to social consideration as was evident by his bearing; and not
old as she was wont to think him--what difference did twenty years make at
_their_ respective ages? No, not old, but--unhappy, and lonely, for
if she did not care to be with him who would? Her heart smote her, and she
stepped forward impetuously, anxious above everything to make amends.

"Daddy!" she gasped, grasping his arm.

Startled, Mr. Kilroy turned round, and looked down into her face
incredulously.

"Is it you--Angelica?" he faltered. "Is anything the matter, dear?" Then
suddenly his whole being changed. A glad light came into his eyes, making
him look years younger, and he was about to take her in his arms, but she
coldly repulsed him, acting on one of two impulses, the other being to
respond, to cling close to him, to say something loving.

"There is nothing the matter," she began. "I thought I should like to come
back to you--at least"--recollecting herself--"that isn't true. But I do
wish I had never separated myself from you in any way. I do wish I had
been different." And she threw herself into a low, easy, leather-lined
armchair, and leant back, looking up to him with appealing eyes.

Mr, Kilroy's pride and affection made him nicely observant of any change
in Angelica, but still he was at a loss to understand this new freak, and
her manner alarmed him.

"I am afraid you are not well," he said anxiously.

She sat up restlessly, then threw herself back in the chair once more, and
lay there with her chin on her chest, in an utterly dejected attitude, not
looking up even when she spoke. "Oh, I am well, thank you," she said,
"quite well."

"Then something has annoyed you," he went on kindly. "Tell me what it is,
dear child. I am the proper person to come to when things go wrong, you
know. So tell me all about it. I--I--" he hesitated. She so often snubbed
any demonstration of affection that he shrank from expressing what he
felt, but another look at her convinced him that there was little chance
of a rebuff to-day. He remained at a safe distance, however, taking a
chair that stood beside an oval table near to which he happened to be
standing.

Newspapers and magazines were piled up on the table, and these he pushed
aside, making room for his right forearm to rest on the cool mahogany, on
the polished surface of which he kept up a continual nervous telick-telick
with the ends of his finger nails as he spoke. "If you do not come to me
for everything you want, to whom will you go?" he inquired, lamely if
pleasantly, being perturbed by the effort he was making to conceal his
uneasiness and assume a cheerful demeanour both at once. "And there is
nothing I would not do for you, as you know, I am sure." He tapped a few
times on the table. "In fact, I should be only too glad if you would give
me the opportunity"--tap, tap, tap--"a little oftener, you know"--tap,
tap, tap. "What I want to say is, I should like you to consult me and, eh,
to ask me, and all that sort of thing, if you want anything"--advice he
had been going to add, but modestly changed the word--"money, for
instance." And now his countenance cleared. He thought he had accidentally
discovered the difficulty. "I expect you have been running into debt, eh?"
He spoke quite playfully, so greatly was he relieved to think it was only
that; "and you have been thinking of me as a sort of stern parent, eh? who
would storm and all that sort of thing. But, my dear child, you mustn't do
that. You should never forget 'with all my worldly goods I thee endow.' I
assure you, ever since I uttered those words, I have felt that I held the
property, in trust for you and--" he had been going to add our children,
but sighed instead. "I have, I know, remonstrated with you when I thought
you unduly extravagant. I could not conscientiously countenance undue
extravagance in so young a wife; but still I hope you have never had to
complain of any want of liberality on my part in--in anything. In fact,
what is the good of money to me if you do not care to spend it? Come, now,
how much is it this time? Just tell me and have done with it, and then we
will go somewhere, or make plans, and 'have a good time,' as the Americans
call it. I have a better box than usual for you at the opera this year--I
think I told you. And I never lend it to anybody. I like to keep it empty
for you in case you care to go at any time. And I have season tickets,
see"--he got up and rummaged in a drawer until he found them--"for
everything, I almost think. I go sometimes myself just to see what is
going on, you know, and if it is the sort of thing you would like, so as
to know what to take you to when you come. And I accept all the nice
invitations for you, conditionally, of course. I say if you are in town at
the time, and I hope you may be (which is true enough always), you will be
happy to go, or words to that effect. So you see there is plenty for you
to do at any time in the way of amusement. I am always making
arrangements, it is like getting ready to welcome you. When I am answering
invitations or doing the theatres I feel quite as if I expected you. It is
childish, perhaps, but it makes something to look forward to, and when I
am busy preparing for you, somehow the days do not seem so blank."

Angelica felt something rise in her throat, but she neither spoke nor
moved.

"Or we might go to Paris," he proceeded tentatively. "Shall we? I could
pair with someone till the end of the session. We might go anywhere, in
fact, and I should enjoy a holiday if--if you would accompany me." He
looked at her with a smile, but the intermittent telick, telick, telick of
his nervous drumming on the table told that he was far from feeling all
the confidence he assumed. For in truth Angelica's attitude alarmed him
more and more. On other occasions, when he had tried to be more than
usually kind and indulgent, she had always called him a nice old thing or
made some such affable if somewhat patronizing acknowledgment, even when
she was out of temper; but now, finding that he was waiting for an answer,
she just looked up at him once, then fixed her eyes on the ground again,
and spoke at last in a voice so hopeless and toneless that he would not
have recognized it.

"I think I have only just this moment learnt to appreciate you," she said.
"I used to accept all your kind attentions as merely my due, but I know
now how little I deserve them, and I wish I could be different. I wish I
could repay you. I wish I could undo the past and begin all over
again--begin by loving you as a wife should. You are ten thousand times
too good for me. Yet I _have_ cared for you in a way," she protested;
"not a kind way, perhaps, but still I have relied upon you--upon your
friendship. I have felt a sense of security in the certainty of your
affection for me--and presumed upon it. O Daddy! why have you let me do as
I like?"

Mr. Kilroy's face became rigid, and the fingers with which he had kept up
that intermittent tapping on the table turned cold.

"What do you mean, Angelica?" he asked hoarsely. "Are you in earnest? Have
you done--anything--or are you only tormenting me? If you are--it is hard,
you know. I do care for you; I always have done; and I have never ceased
to look forward to a time when you would love me too. God help me if you
have come to tell me that that time will never come."

Again that lump rose in Angelica's throat. A horrible form of emotion had
seized upon her: "I had better tell you and get it over," she said,
speaking in hurried gasps, and sitting up, but not looking at him. "You
will care less when you know exactly. You will see then that I am not
worth a thought. I am suffering horribly. I want to _shriek_." She
tore her jacket open, and threw her hat on the floor. "What a relief. I
was suffocating. I don't know where to begin." She looked up at him, then
stopped short, frightened by the drawn and haggard look in his face, and
tranquillised too, forgetting herself in the effort to think of something
to say to relieve him. "But you do know all about it," she added, speaking
more naturally than she had done yet. "I told you--"

"Told me _what_?"

"About--about--you thought I was inventing it--that story--about the Tenor
and the Boy."

Mr. Kilroy curved his fingers together and held them up over the table for
a moment as if he were about to tap upon it again, and it was as if he had
asked a question.

"It was all true," Angelica proceeded, "all that I told you. But there was
more."

Mr. Kilroy uttered a low exclamation, and hung his head as if in shame.
The colour had fled from his face, leaving it ghastly gray for a moment
like that of a dead man. Angelica half rose to go to him, fearing he would
faint, but he had recovered before she could carry out her intention. She
looked at him compassionately. She would have given her life to be able to
spare him now, but it was too late, and there was nothing for it but to go
on and get it over.

"You remember the picture I had painted--'Music'?" Mr. Kilroy made a
gesture of assent. "That was his portrait."

"I always understood it was an ideal singer,"

"An _idealized_ singer was what I said; but it was not even that, as
you would have seen for yourself if you had ever gone to the cathedral. It
is a good likeness, nothing more,"

"And you had yourself put into a picture with a common tenor, and
exhibited to all the world'"

"Yes, and all the world thought it a great condescension. But he did not
consent to it, or sit for it. He objected to the picture as strongly as
you do. He was not a _common_ tenor at all. He was an old and
intimate friend of Uncle Dawne's and Dr. Galbraith's. They all--all our
people--knew him. He was often at Morne before you came to Ilverthorpe;
but I did not know it myself until afterward."

"Afterward?" he questioned.

"I had better go on from where I left off," she replied, her confidence
returning. "I told you about the accident on the river, and his finding
out who I was, and his contempt for me; and I told you I desired most
sincerely to win his respect, and you advised me to go to him and
endeavour to do so. Well, I went." She paused, and Mr. Kilroy looked hard
at her; his face was flushed now. "And he was dead," she gasped.

Mr. Kilroy seemed bewildered. "I don't understand," he exclaimed.

"I told you there was more, and that was it--that was all. He was dead,"
she repeated.

Mr. Kilroy drew a deep breath, and leant back in his chair. "I am ashamed
to say I feel relieved," he began, as if speaking to himself; "yet I
scarcely know what I expected." He looked down thoughtfully at his own
hand as it lay upon the table. He wanted to say something more, but his
mind moved slowly, and no words came at first. He was obliged to make a
great effort to collect himself, and in the interval he resumed that
irregular tapping upon the table. It maddened Angelica, who found herself
forced to watch and wait for the recurrence of the sound.

"Let me tell you, though--let me finish the story," she exclaimed, at last
unable to bear it any longer; and then she gave him every detail of her
doings since last they parted.

Mr. Kilroy let his hand drop on the table, and listened without looking at
her. "And that is all?" he said, when she had finished. "I mean--have you
really told me all, Angelica?"

She met his eyes fearlessly, and there was something in her face,
something innocent, an unsuspicious look of inquiry such as a child
assumes when it waits to be questioned which would have made him ashamed
of a degrading doubt had he entertained one.

"You were not--you did not care for him?"

"Oh, yes!" she exclaimed with most perfect and reassuring candour, "I
cared for him. Of course I cared for him. Haven't I told you? No one could
know such a man and not care for him."

"Thank God!" he said softly, with tremulous lips. "It would have broken my
heart if he had not been such a man."

The words brought down upon him one of Angelica's tornado-tempests of
unreasonable wrath. "Are you insinuating that my good conduct depended
upon his good character?" she demanded. "Are you no better than those
hateful French people who have no conception of anything unusual in a
woman that does not end in gross impropriety of conduct; and fill their
books with nothing else?"

Mr. Kilroy's face flushed. "Such an unworthy suspicion would never have
occurred to me in connection with yourself," he said. "At the risk of
appearing ungenerous, I must call your attention to the fact that it is
you yourself who have been the first to allude to the bare possibility of
such a thing. For my own part, if you chose to travel round the world
alone with a man, at night or at any other time that suited your
convenience, I should be content to know that you were doing so,
especially if it amused you, such is my perfect confidence in your
integrity, and in the discretion with which you choose your friends."

"I beg your pardon, forgive me!" Angelica humbly ejaculated. "You shame me
by a delicacy which I can only respect and admire in you. I cannot imitate
it; it is beyond me."

"I owe _you_ an apology," he answered. "I should have spoken plainly.
It was your feelings--your heart, not your conduct, that I suspected. You
have never pretended to love me-to be in love with me, and your Tenor was
a younger man, and more attractive."

"Not to me," Angelica hastily and sincerely asseverated.

She did not look up to see the effect of her words upon Mr. Kilroy. Her
eyes had been fixed on his feet as she spoke, and now it struck her that
they were exceedingly well-shaped feet, and well-booted in the quiet way
characteristic of the man. Everything about him was unobtrusive as his own
manner, but good as his own heart.

Angelica leant back in her chair, and a long silence ensued, during which
she lapsed into her old attitude, lying back in her chair, her hands on
the arms, her chin on her chest, her wandering glance upon the ground, so
that she did not see that her husband was watching her with eyes that
filled as he looked. What was to be the end of this? Should she lose his
affection? Would she be turned out of the kind heart that had loved her
with all her faults, and cherished her with a patient, enduring,
self-denying fondness that was worth more, and had been a greater comfort
to her, as she knew now, than all the things together, youth, beauty,
rank, wealth, and talents, for which she was envied. If he said to her in
his gentle way: "You had better return to Ilverthorpe, and live there,"
which would mean that he cared for her no longer, should she go? Yes, she
would go without a word. She would go and drown herself.

But Mr. Kilroy was far from thinking harsh thoughts of her. On the
contrary, he was blaming himself, little as he deserved it, for the
circumstances which had brought Angelica to this bitter moment of
self-abasement. He was not eloquent either in thought or speech, and with
regard to his wife he had always felt more than he could express even to
himself, though what he felt did find a certain form of expression,
intelligible enough to a loving soul, in his constant care for her, and in
the uncomplaining devotion which led him to sacrifice his own wishes to
her whims, to absent himself when he perceived that she did not want him,
and to suffer her neglect without bitterness, though certainly not without
pain. And now he never thought of blaming her. What occurred to him was
that this young half-educated girl had been committed to his care, and
left by him pretty much to her own devices. He had not done his duty by
her; he had not influenced her in any way; he had expected too much from
her. It was the old story. Had he not himself seen fifty households
wrecked because the husband, when he took a girl, little more than a child
in years, and quite a child in mind and experience, from her own family,
and the wholesome influences and companionship of father, mother,
brothers, sisters, probably left her to go unguided, to form her character
as best she could, putting that grave responsibility in her own weak hands
as if the mere making a wife of her must make her a mature and sensible
woman also? This was what he had done himself, and if Angelica had got
into bad hands, and come to grief irreparable, there would have been
nobody to blame but himself for it, especially as he knew she was
headstrong, excitable, wild, original, fearless, and with an intellect
large out of all proportion for the requirements of the life to which
society condemned her; a force which was liable, if otherwise unemployed,
to expend itself in outbursts of mischievous energy, although there was
not a scrap of vice in her--no, not a scrap, he loyally insisted. For just
look how she had come to him and told him! Would a girl who was not honest
at heart have done that when she might so easily have deceived him? It was
this confidence which touched him more than anything. She had come to him,
as she should have done, the first thing, and she had come full of remorse
and willing to atone. All this trouble was tending to unite them; it had
brought her home; it would prove what is called a, blessing in disguise
after all, he hoped. His great love inspired him with insight and taught
him tact in all his dealings with Angelica; and now it prompted him to do
the one wise simple thing that would avail under the circumstances. He
went to her, and bending over her, always delicately considerate of her
inclinations even in the matter of the least caress, laid a kind hand on
her shoulder, uttering at the same time brokenly the very words of her
dream that morning: "If you could care for me a little, Angelica."

She looked up, amazed at first, then, understanding, she rose. The
distressing tension relaxed in that moment, her heart expanded, her eyes
filled with tears and overflowed; she could not command her voice to
speak, but she threw herself impetuously into her husband's arms, and
kissed him passionately, and clung to him, until she was able to sob
out--"Don't let me go again, Daddy, keep me close. I am--I am grateful for
the blessing of a good man's love."


END OF BOOK V.


BOOK VI.

THE IMPRESSIONS OF DR. GALBRAITH


  Nothing extenuate, nor set down aught in malice.

--_Othello_, Act V. Sc. II.


NOTE.--The fact that Dr. Galbraith had not the advantage of knowing
Evadne's early history when they first became acquainted adds a certain
piquancy to the flavour of his impressions, and the reader, better
informed than himself with regard to the antecedents of his "subject,"
will find it interesting to note both the accuracy of his insight and the
curious mistakes which it is possible even for a trained observer like
himself to make by the half light of such imperfect knowledge as he was
able to collect under the circumstances. His record, which is minute in
all important particulars, is specially valuable for the way in which it
makes apparent the changes of habit and opinion and the modifications of
character that had been brought about in a very short time by the
restriction Colonel Colquhoun had imposed upon her. In some respects it is
hard to believe that she is the same person. But more interesting still,
perhaps, are the glimpses we get of Dr. Galbraith himself in the
narrative, throughout which it is easy to decipher the simple earnestness
of the man, the cautious professionalism and integrity, the touches of
tender sentiment held in check, the dash of egotism, the healthy-minded
human nature, the capacity for enjoyment and sorrow, the love of life,
and, above all, the perfect unconsciousness with which he shows himself to
have been a man of fastidious refinement and exemplary moral strength and
delicacy; of the highest possible character; and most lovable in spite of
a somewhat irascible temper and manner which were apt to be abrupt at
times.


CHAPTER I.


Evadne puzzled me. As a rule, men of my profession, and more particularly
specialists like myself, can class a woman's character and gauge her
propensities for good or evil while he is diagnosing her disease if she
consult him, or more easily still during half an hour's ordinary
conversation if he happens to be alone with her. But even after I had seen
Evadne many times, and felt broadly that I knew her salient points as well
as such tricks of manner or habitual turns of expression as distinguished
her from other ladies, I was puzzled.

We are not sufficiently interested in all the people we meet to care to
understand their characters exactly, but a medical man who has not insight
enough to do so at will has small chance of success in his profession, and
when I found myself puzzled about Evadne it became a point of importance
with me to understand her. She was certainly an interesting study, and all
the more so because of that initial difficulty--a difficulty, by the way,
which I found from the gossip of the place that everybody else was
experiencing more or less. For it was evident from the first that whatever
her real character might be, she was anything but a nonentity. Before she
had been in the neighbourhood a fortnight she had made a distinct
impression and was freely discussed, a fact which speaks for itself in two
ways: first, her individuality was strongly marked enough to attract
immediate attention, and secondly, there was that about her which provoked
criticism. Not that the criticism of a community like ours is worth much,
consisting as it does of carping mainly, and the kind of carping which
reflects much more upon the low level of intelligence that obtains in such
neighbourhoods than upon the character of the person criticised, for what
the vulgar do not understand they are apt to condemn. Somebody has said
that to praise moderately is a sign of mediocrity; and somebody might have
added that to denounce decidedly shows deficiency in a multitude of
estimable qualities, among which discernment must be specially
mentioned--not, however, that there was any question of denouncing here,
for Evadne was always more discussed for what she was not than for what
she was. One lady of my acquaintance put part of my own feeling into words
when she declared that Evadne _could_ be nicer if _she would_,
that part of it which first made me suspect that there was something
artificial in her attitude towards the world at large, and more especially
towards the world of thought and opinion, and that, had she been natural,
she would have differed from herself as we knew her in many material
respects. Naturalness, however, is a quality upon which too much stress is
generally laid. If you are naturally nice it is all very well, but suppose
you are naturally nasty? We should be very thankful indeed to think that
some of our friends are not natural.

In looking back now, I am inclined to ask why we, Evadne's intimate
friends, should always have expected more of her than we did of other
people. That certainly was the case, and she disappointed us. We felt that
she should have been a representative woman such as the world wants at
this period of its progress, making a name for herself and an impression
on the age; and it was probably her objection, expressed with quite
passionate earnestness, to play a part in which we gathered from many
chance indications that she was eminently qualified to have excelled, that
constituted the puzzle. Her natural bent was certainly in that direction,
but something had changed it; and here in particular the external
tormenting difficulty with regard to her occurred with full force. At a
very early period of our acquaintance, however, I discovered that her
attitude in this respect was not inherent, but deliberately chosen.

"I avoid questions of the day as much as possible," she said on one
occasion in answer to some remark of mine on a current topic of
conversation. "I do not, as a rule, read anything on such subjects, and if
people begin to discuss them in my presence I fly if I can."

"I should have thought that all such questions would have interested you
deeply," I observed.

"They seem to possess a quite fatal fascination for people who allow
themselves to be interested," she answered evasively, and in a tone which
forbade further discussion of the subject.

But it was the evasion which enlightened me. She would not have been
afraid of the "fatal fascination" if she had never felt it herself, and it
was therefore evident that her objection was not the outcome of ignorant
prejudice, but of knowledge and set purpose. It was the attitude of a
burnt child.

The impression she made upon the neighbourhood was curious in one way--it
was so very mixed, In the adverse part of the mixture, however, a good
deal of personal pique was apparent, and one thing was always obvious:
people liked her as much as she would let them. She even might have been
popular had she chosen, but popularity comes of condescending to the level
of the average, and Evadne was exclusive. She was _une vraie petite
grande dame_ at heart as well as in appearance, and would associate
with none but her equals; and out of those again she was fastidious in the
selection of her friends. To servants, people who knew their proper place,
and retainers generally, with legitimate claims to her consideration, she
was all kindly courtesy, and they were devoted to her; but she met the
aspiring parvenu, seeking her acquaintance on false pretences of equality,
with that disdainful civility which is more exasperating than positive
rudeness because a lady is only rude to her equals.

And hence most of the animadversion.

But her manner was perfectly consistent. Her coldness or cordiality to
mere acquaintances only varied of necessity according to her position and
responsibilities. In her own house, where the onus of entertaining fell
upon her, she was charming to everybody to-day, neglecting none, and
giving an equally flattering share of her attention to each; but if she
met the same people at somebody else's place to-morrow, when she was off
duty, as it were, she certainly showed no more interest than she felt in
them. I do not believe, however, that she ever committed a breach of good
manners in her life. When she spoke to you she did so with the most
perfect manner, giving you her whole attention for the moment, and never
letting her eyes wander, as underbred people so often do, especially in
the act of shaking hands. Fairly considered, her attitude in society was
distinguished by an equable politeness, in which, however, there was no
heart, and that was what the world missed. She did not care for society,
and society demands your heart, having none of its own. She certainly did
her duty in that state of life, but without any affectation of delight in
it. She went to all the local entertainments as custom required, and
suffered from suspended animation under the influence of the deadly
dulness which prevailed at most of them, but in that she was not peculiar,
and she could conceal her boredom more successfully than almost anybody
else I knew, and did so heroically.

In her religion too she was quite conventional. Like most people in these
days, she was a good Churchwoman without being in any sense a Christian.
She did not love her neighbour as herself, or profess to; but she went to
church regularly and made all the responses, pleasing the clergy, and
deriving some solace herself from the occupation--at least she always said
the services were soothing. She was genuinely shocked by a sign of
irreverence, and would sing the most jingling nonsense as a hymn with
perfect gravity and without perceiving that there was any flaw in it. In
these matters she showed no originality at all. She would repeat "my duty
towards my neighbour is to love him as myself, and to do to all men as I
would that they should do unto me" fervently, and come out and cut Mrs.
Chrimes to the quick just afterward because she had the misfortune to be a
tanner's wife and nobody's daughter in particular. It was what she had
been taught. Any one of her set would have said "my duty to my neighbour"
without a doubt of their own sincerity, and given Mrs. Chrimes the cold
shoulder too; the inconsistency is customary, and in this particular
Evadne was as much a creature of custom as the rest.

It was my fate to take Evadne in to dinner on the first occasion of our
meeting. I did not hear her name when I was presented, and had no idea who
she was, but I was struck by her appearance. Her figure was fragile to a
fault, and she was evidently delicate at that time, not having fully
recovered, as I was afterwards told, from a severe attack of Maltese fever;
but her complexion was not unhealthy. Her features were refined and
exquisitely feminine. She looked about twenty, and her face in repose
would have been expressionless but for the slight changes about the mouth
which showed that the mind was working within. Her long eyes seemed narrow
from a trick she had of holding them half shut. They were slow-glancing
and steadfast, and all her movements struck one at first as being languid,
but that impression wore off after a time, and then it became apparent
that they were merely rather more deliberate than is usual with a girl.

She answered my first remarks somewhat shortly; but certainly such
observations as one finds to make to a strange lady while taking her from
the drawing room to the dining room and arranging her chair at table are
not usually calculated to inspire brilliant responses. She had the habit
of society to perfection and was essentially self-possessed, but I fancied
she was shy. Coldness is often a cover for extreme shyness in women of her
station, and I did my best to thaw her; but the soup and fish had been
removed and we had arrived at the last _entrée_ before I made a
remark that roused her in the least. I forget what I said exactly, but it
was some stupid commonplace about the difficulties of the political
situation at the moment.

"I hate politics," she then observed. "Business is a disagreeable thing,
whether it be the business of the nation or of the shop. I hear women say
that they are obliged to interfere just now in all that concerns
themselves because men have cheated and imposed upon them to a quite
unbearable extent. But they will do no good by it. Their position is
perfectly hopeless. And the mere trade of governing is a coarse pursuit,
and therefore most objectionable for us." She drew in her breath and
tightened her lips. "But for myself," she added, "what I object to mainly
is the thought. Why are they trying to make us think? The great difficulty
is not to think. There are plenty of men to think for us, and while they
are thinking we can be feeling. I, for one, have no joy in eventful
living. Feeling is life, not thought. You need not be afraid to give us
the suffrage," she broke off, with the first glimpse of a smile I had seen
on her lips. "After the excitement of conquering your opposition to it was
over we should all be content, and not one woman in a hundred would
trouble herself to vote."

"I believe women are more public spirited than that," I answered. "They
are toiling everywhere now for the furtherance of all good works, and they
come forward courageously whenever necessity compels them to take such an
extreme and uncongenial course. In times of war--"

She had been leaning back in her chair in a somewhat languid attitude, but
now suddenly she straightened herself, her face flushed crimson, and I
stopped short. Something in the word "War" either hurt or excited her. Her
long eyes opened on me wide and bright for the first time, and flashed a
look into mine more stirring than the wine that bubbled in the glass
between my fingers.

"She is beautiful!" I said to myself; but up to that moment I had not
suspected it.

"War!" she exclaimed, speaking under her breath, but incisively. "Do not
let us talk about it! War is the dirty work of a nation; it is one of the
indecencies of life, and should never be mentioned!"

She looked straight into my face for a moment with eyes wide open and lips
compressed when she had finished speaking, and then took her _menu_
in her left hand, and began to study it with great apparent attention.

Having discovered that she thought politics a coarse, contaminating
business, and war the dirty work of a nation, I felt curious to know her
views on literature and art.

"I have just been reading a book that might interest you," I began; "it
strikes me as being so true to life."

"I think I should be inclined to avoid it, then," she answered, "for I
always find that 'true to life' in a book means something revolting."

"Unfortunately, yes, it often does," I agreed. "But still we ought to
know. If we refused to study the bad side of life, no evil would ever be
remedied."

"Do you think any good is ever done?" she asked.

"I am afraid you are a pessimist," I rejoined.

"But do you really like books that are true to life yourself?" she
proceeded. "Don't you think we see enough of life without reading about
it? For my own part I am grateful to anyone who has the power to take me
out of this world and make me feel something--realise something--beyond.
The dash of the supernatural, for instance, in 'John Inglesant,' 'Mr.
Isaacs,' 'The Wizard's Son,' and 'The Little Pilgrim' has the effect of
rest upon my mind, and gives me greater pleasure than the most perfect
picture of real life ever presented. In fact, my ideal of perfect bliss in
these days is to know nothing and believe in ghosts."

This also was a comprehensive opinion, and I felt no further inclination
to name the book to which I had alluded. But now that she had begun to
respond I should have been well content to continue the conversation.
There was something so unusual in most of her opinions that I wanted to
hear more, although I confess that what she said interested me less than
she herself did. Before I could touch on another topic, however, the
ladies left the table.

A big blond man, middle-aged, bald, bland, and with a heavy moustache, had
been sitting opposite to us during dinner, and had attracted my attention
by the way he looked at my partner from time to time. It was a difficult
look to describe, because there was neither admiration nor interest in it,
approval nor disapproval; he might have looked at a block of wood in
exactly the same way, and it could hardly have been less responsive. Once,
however, their eyes did meet, and then the glance became one of friendly
recognition on both sides; but even after that he still continued to look
in the same queer way, and it was this fact that struck me as peculiar.

When the ladies had gone I happened to find myself beside this gentleman,
and asked him if he could tell me who it was I had taken in to dinner.

"Well, she is supposed to be my wife," he answered deliberately; "and I am
Colonel Colquhoun."

He spoke with a decidedly Irish accent of the educated sort, and seemed to
think that I should know all about him when he mentioned his name, but I
had never heard of the fellow before. I rightly conjectured, however, that
he was the new man who had come to command the Depôt at Morningquest while
I had been abroad for my holiday.


CHAPTER II.


First impressions are very precious for many reasons. They have a charm of
their own to begin with, and it is interesting to recall them; and
salutary, also, if not sedative. Collect a few, and you will soon see
clearly the particular kind of ass you are by the mistakes you have made
in consequence of having confided in them. When I first met Evadne I was
still young enough, in the opprobrious sense of the word, to suppose that
I should find her mentally, when I met her again, just where she was when
she left me after our little chat at the dinner-table; and I went to pay
my duty call upon her under that most erroneous impression. I intended to
resume our interrupted conversation, and never doubted but that I should
find her willing to gratify my interest in her peculiar views. It was a
mistake, however, which anybody, whose delight in his own pursuits is
continuous, might make, and one into which the cleverest man is prone to
fall when the object is a woman.

I called on Evadne the day after the dinner. She was alone, and rising
from a seat beside a small work-table as I entered, advanced a step, and
held out a nerveless hand to me. She was not looking well. Make a dive
at him anywhere and in he goes. He knows where the hole is, even when it
is covered up with leaves. There is no doubt, also, that he has his
own sense of humor and fun, as what squirrel has not? I have watched
two red squirrels for a half hour coursing through the large trees by
the roadside where branches interlocked, and engaged in a game of tag
as obviously as two boys. As soon as the pursuer had come up with the
pursued, and actually touched him, the palm was his, and away he would go,
taxing his wits and his speed to the utmost to elude his fellow.

Despairing of finding either of the nests of the two males, we pushed on
through the woods to try our luck elsewhere. Before long, just as we were
about to plunge down a hill into a dense, swampy part of the woods, we
discovered a pair of the birds we were in quest of.

They had food in their beaks, and, as we paused, showed great signs of alarm,
indicating that the nest was in the immediate vicinity. This was
enough. We would pause here and find this nest, anyhow. To make a sure
thing of it, we determined to watch the parent birds till we had wrung
from them their secret. So we doggedly crouched down and watched them, and
they watched us. It was diamond cut diamond. But as we felt constrained
in our movements, desiring, if possible, to keep so quiet that the
birds would, after a while, see in us only two harmless stumps or prostrate
logs, we had much the worst of it. The mosquitoes were quite taken with
our quiet, and knew us from logs and stumps in a moment. Neither were the
birds deceived, not even when we tried the Indian's tactics, and plumed
ourselves with green branches. Ah, the suspicious creatures, how they
watched us with the food in their beaks, abstaining for one whole
hour from ministering that precious charge which otherwise would have
been visited every moment! Quite near us they would come at times, between
us and the nest, eying us so sharply.
Then they would move off, and apparently try to forget our presence.

Was it to deceive us, or to persuade himself and mate that there was no
serious cause for alarm, that the male would now and then strike
up in full song and move off to some distance through the trees? But
the mother bird did not allow herself to lose sight of us at all, and
both birds, after carrying the food in their beaks a long time, would swallow
it themselves. Then they would obtain another morsel and apparently
approach very near the nest, when their caution or prudence would come to
their aid, and they would swallow the food and hasten away.

I thought the young birds would cry out, but not a syllable from them. Yet
this was, no doubt, what kept the parent birds away from the nest. The
clamor the young would have set up on the approach of the old with food
would have exposed everything.

After a time I felt sure I knew within a few feet where the nest was
concealed. Indeed, I thought I knew the identical bush. Then the birds
approached each other again and grew very confidential about another locality
some rods below. This puzzled us, and, seeing the whole afternoon might
be spent in this manner, and the mystery unsolved, we determined to change
our tactics and institute a thorough search of the locality.

This procedure soon brought things to a crisis, for, as my companion
clambered over a log by a little hemlock, a few yards from where
we had been sitting, with a cry of alarm out sprang the young birds
from their nest in the hemlock, and, scampering and fluttering over
the leaves, disappeared in different directions.

This brought the parent birds on the scene in an agony of alarm. Their
distress was pitiful. They threw themselves on the ground at our very feet,
and fluttered, and cried, and trailed themselves before us, to draw us
away from the place, or distract our attention from the helpless young.
I shall not forget the male bird, how bright he looked, how sharp the
contrast as he trailed his painted plumage there on the dry leaves.
Apparently he was seriously disabled. He would start up as if exerting
every muscle to fly away, but no use; down he would come, with a helpless,
fluttering motion, before he had gone two yards, and apparently
you had only to go and pick him up.

But before you could pick him up, he had recovered somewhat and flown a
little farther; and thus, if you were tempted to follow him, you would
soon find yourself some distance from the scene of the nest, and
both old and young well out of your reach.

The female bird was not less solicious, and practiced the same arts upon
us to decoy us away, but her dull plumage rendered her less noticeable.
The male was clad in holiday attire, but his mate in an every-day
working-garb.

The nest was built in the fork of a little hemlock, about fifteen inches
from the ground, and was a thick, firm structure, composed of the
finer material of the woods, with a lining of very delicate roots
or rootlets.

There were four young birds and one addled egg. We found it in
a locality about the head-waters of the eastern branch of the Delaware,
where several other of the rarer species of warblers, such as the mourning
ground, the Blackburnian, the chestnut-sided, and the speckled Canada,
spend the summer and rear their young.

Defunct birds'-nests are easy to find; when the leaves fall, then they are
in every bush and tree; and one wonders how he missed them; but a
live nest, how it eludes one!

I have read of a noted criminal who could hide himself pretty effectually
in any room that contained the usual furniture; he would embrace the support
of a table so as to seem part of it.

The bird has studied the same art: it always blends its nest with
the surroundings, and sometimes its very openness hides it; the
light itself seems to conceal it.

Then the birds build anew each year, and so always avail themselves of the
present and latest combination of leaves and screens, of light and
shade. What was very well concealed one season may be quite exposed the
next.

Going a-fishing or a-berrying is a good introduction to the haunts of
the birds, and to their nesting-places. You put forth your hand for the
berries, and there is a nest; or your tread by the creeks starts the
sandpiper or the water-thrush from the ground where its eggs are concealed,
or some shy wood-warbler from a bush. One day, fishing down a deep
wooded gorge, my hook caught on a limb overhead, and on pulling it down
I found I had missed my trout, but had caught a hummingbird's nest. It
was saddled on the limb as nicely as if it had been a grown part of it.

Other collectors beside the oölogists are looking for birds'-nests,--
the squirrels and owls and jays and crows. The worst depredator in this
direction I know of is the fish crow, and I warn him to keep off my
premises, and charge every gunner to spare him not. He is a small
sneak-thief, and will rob the nest of every robin, wood thrush, and
oriole he can come at. I believe he fishes only when he is unable to
find birds' eggs or young birds. The genuine crow, the crow with the honest
"caw," "caw," I have never caught in such small business, though the
kingbird makes no discrimination between them, but accuses both alike.

IX
THE HALCYON IN CANADA

The halcyon or kingfisher is a good guide when you go to the woods. He
will not insure smooth water or fair weather, but he knows every stream
and lake like a book, and will take you to the wildest and most
unfrequented places.

Follow his rattle and you shall see the source of every trout and salmon
stream on the continent.

You shall see the Lake of the Woods, and far-off Athabasca and
Abbitibbe, and the unknown streams that flow into Hudson's Bay, and
many others.

His time is the time of the trout, too, namely, from April to September. He
makes his subterranean nest in the bank of some favorite stream, and then
goes on long excursions up and down and over woods and mountains
to all the waters within reach, always fishing alone, the true
angler that he is, his fellow keeping far ahead or behind, or taking
the other branch.

He loves the sound of a waterfall, and will sit a long time on a
dry limb overhanging the pool below it, and, forgetting his occupation,
brood upon his own memories and fancies.

The past season my friend and I took a hint from him, and, when the
dog-star began to blaze, set out for Canada, making a big detour
to touch at salt water and to take New York and Boston on our way.

The latter city was new to me, and we paused there and angled a couple of
days and caught an editor, a philosopher, and a poet, and might have
caught more if we had had a mind to, for these waters are full of 'em,
and big ones, too.

Coming from the mountainous regions of the Hudson, we saw little in the
way of scenery that arrested our attention until we beheld the
St.
Lawrence, though one gets glimpses now and then, as he is whirled along
through New Hampshire and Vermont, that make him wish for a fuller
view. It is always a pleasure to bring to pass the geography of one's
boyhood; 'tis like the fulfilling of a dream; hence it was with partial
eyes that I looked upon the Merrimac, the Connecticut, and the
Passumpsic,--dusky, squaw-colored streams, whose names I had learned so
long ago. The traveler opens his eyes a little wider when he reaches
Lake Memphremagog, especially if he have the luck to see it under such
a sunset as we did, its burnished surface glowing like molten gold.
This lake is an immense trough that accommodates both sides of the fence,
though by far the larger and longer part of it is in Canada. Its
western shore is bold and picturesque, being skirted by a detachment of
the Green Mountains, the main range of which is seen careering
along the horizon far to the southwest; to the east and north,
whither the railroad takes you, the country is flat and monotonous.

The first peculiarity one notices about the farms in this northern country
is the close proximity of the house and barn, in most cases the two buildings
touching at some point,--an arrangement doubtless prompted by the deep
snows and severe cold of this latitude. The typical Canadian dwelling-house
is also presently met with on entering the Dominion,--a low, modest structure
of hewn spruce logs, with a steep roof (containing two or more dormer
windows) that ends in a smart curve, a hint taken from the Chinese
pagoda.

Even in the more costly brick or stone houses in the towns and vicinity this
style is adhered to. It is so universal that one wonders if
the reason of it is not in the climate also, the outward curve of the
roof shooting the sliding snow farther away from the dwelling. It affords
a wide projection, in many cases covering a veranda, and in all cases
protecting the doors and windows without interfering with the light. In
the better class of clapboarded houses the finish beneath the
projecting eaves is also a sweeping curve, opposing and bracing that of the
roof. A two-story country house, or a Mansard roof, I do not remember
to have seen in Canada; but in places they have become so enamored of the
white of the snow that they even whitewash the roofs of their buildings,
giving a cluster of them the impression, at a distance, of an
encampment of great tents.

As we neared Point Levi, opposite Quebec, we got our first view of the St.
Lawrence. "Iliad of rivers!" exclaimed my friend. "Yet unsung!" The
Hudson must take a back seat now, and a good way back. One of the two or
three great watercourses of the globe is before you. No other river, I
imagine, carries such a volume of pure cold water to the sea. Nearly
all its feeders are trout and salmon streams, and what an airing and what
a bleaching it gets on its course! Its history, its antecedents, are
unparalleled. The great lakes are its camping-grounds; here its
hosts repose under the sun and stars in areas like that of
states and kingdoms, and it is its waters that shake the earth at Niagara.
Where it receives the Saguenay it is twenty miles wide, and when
it debouches into the Gulf it is a hundred.

Indeed, it is a chain of Homeric sublimities from beginning to end. The
great cataract is a fit sequel to the great lakes; the spirit that
is born in vast and tempestuous Superior takes its full glut of power
in that fearful chasm. If paradise is hinted in the Thousand Islands, hell
is unveiled in that pit of terrors.

Its last escapade is the great rapids above Montreal, down which the
steamer shoots with its breathless passengers, after which, inhaling and
exhaling its mighty tides, it flows calmly to the sea.

The St. Lawrence is the type of nearly all the Canadian rivers, which are
strung with lakes and rapids and cataracts, and are full of peril
and adventure.

Here we reach the oldest part of the continent, geologists tell us; and
here we encounter a fragment of the Old World civilization. Quebec presents
the anomaly of a mediæval European city in the midst of the American
landscape. This air, this sky, these clouds, these trees, the look of
these fields, are what we have always known; but the houses, and streets,
and vehicles, and language, and physiognomy are strange.

As I walked upon the grand terrace I saw the robin and kingbird and song
sparrow, and there in the tree, by the Wolfe Monument, our summer
warbler was at home.

I presently saw, also, that our republican crow was a British
subject, and that he behaved here more like his European brother
than he does in the States, being less wild and suspicious.

On the Plains of Abraham excellent timothy grass was growing and
cattle were grazing.

We found a path through the meadow, and, with the exception of a
very abundant weed with a blue flower, saw nothing new or
strange,--nothing but the steep tin roofs of the city and its
frowning wall and citadel.

Sweeping around the far southern horizon, we could catch glimpses of
mountains that were evidently in Maine or New Hampshire; while twelve
or fifteen miles to the north the Laurentian ranges, dark and formidable,
arrested the eye. Quebec, or the walled part of it, is situated on a
point of land shaped not unlike the human foot, looking northeast, the
higher and bolder side being next the river, with the main part
of the town on the northern slope toward the St.

Charles. Its toes are well down in the mud where this stream joins the St.
Lawrence, while the citadel is high on the instep and commands the whole
field. The grand Battery is a little below, on the brink of the instep,
so to speak, and the promenader looks down several hundred feet
into the tops of the chimneys of this part of the lower town, and
upon the great river sweeping by northeastward like another Amazon.

The heel of our misshapen foot extends indefinitely toward Montreal. Upon
it, on a level with the citadel, are the Plains of Abraham. It was up its
high, almost perpendicular, sides that Wolfe clambered with his
army, and stood in the rear of his enemy one pleasant September
morning over a hundred years ago.

To the north and northeast of Quebec, and in full view from the
upper parts of the city, lies a rich belt of agricultural country,
sloping gently toward the river, and running parallel with it for
many miles, called the Beauport slopes.

The division of the land into uniform parallelograms, as in France, was a
marked feature, and is so throughout the Dominion. A road ran through the
midst of it lined with; trees, and leading to the falls of the
Montmorenci. I imagine that this section is the garden of Quebec.

Beyond it rose the mountains. Our eyes looked wistfully toward them,
for we had decided to penetrate the Canadian woods in that direction.

One hundred and twenty-five miles from Quebec as the loon flies, almost
due north over unbroken spruce forests, lies Lake St. John, the
cradle of the terrible Saguenay. On the map it looks like a great cuttlefish
with its numerous arms and tentacula reaching out in all directions
into the wilds.

It is a large oval body of water thirty miles in its greatest
diameter.

The season here, owing to a sharp northern sweep of the isothermal
lines, is two or three weeks earlier than at Quebec.

The soil is warm and fertile, and there is a thrifty growing settlement here
with valuable agricultural produce, but no market nearer than
Quebec, two hundred and fifty miles distant by water, with a hard,
tedious land journey besides.

In winter the settlement can have little or no communication with the
outside world.

To relieve this isolated colony and encourage further development
of the St.

John region, the Canadian government is building [footnote:
Written in 1877] a wagon-road through the wilderness from Quebec directly
to the lake, thus economizing half the distance, as the road when
completed will form with the old route, the Saguenay and St.

Lawrence, one side of an equilateral triangle.

A railroad was projected a few years ago over nearly the same ground,
and the contract to build it given to an enterprising Yankee, who
pocketed a part of the money and has never been heard of since.

The road runs for one hundred miles through an unbroken wilderness,
and opens up scores of streams and lakes abounding with trout, into
which, until the road-makers fished them, no white man had ever
cast a hook.

It was a good prospect, and we resolved to commit ourselves to the
St.

John road. The services of a young fellow whom, by reason of his
impracticable French name, we called Joe, were secured, and after
a delay of twenty-four hours we were packed upon a Canadian buckboard
with hard-tack in one bag and oats in another, and the journey began.

It was Sunday, and we held up our heads more confidently when we
got beyond the throng of well-dressed church-goers.

For ten miles we had a good stone road and rattled along it at a
lively pace.

In about half that distance we came to a large brick church, where we
began to see the rural population or _habitans._ They came mostly
in two-wheeled vehicles, some of the carts quite fancy, in which
the young fellows rode complacently beside their girls.

The two-wheeler predominates in Canada, and is of all styles and sizes.
After we left the stone road, we began to encounter the hills that
are preliminary to the mountains.

The farms looked like the wilder and poorer parts of Maine or New
Hampshire.

While Joe was getting a supply of hay of a farmer to take into the
woods for his horse, I walked through a field in quest of wild
strawberries.

The season for them was past, it being the 20th of July, and I found
barely enough to make me think that the strawberry here is far less
pungent and high-flavored than with us.

The cattle in the fields and by the roadside looked very small and
delicate, the effect, no doubt, of the severe climate.

We saw many rude implements of agriculture, such as wooden plows
shod with iron.

We passed several parties of men, women, and children from Quebec
picnicking in the "bush."

Here it was little more than a "bush;" but while in Canada we never
heard the woods designated by any other term.

It was exactly what I had intended with regard to her since I had received
Lady Adeline's letter, but a compact entered into on the occasion of our
fourth meeting struck me as sudden. I had no time to think of it, however,
at the moment, for Evadne followed up her thanks with a question.

"How do you come to have an abode of this kind and be a doctor also?" she
asked.

"The house came to me from an uncle, who died suddenly, just after I had
become a fully qualified practitioner," I told her; "but there is not
income enough attached to it to keep it up properly, and I wanted to live
here; and I wanted besides to continue my professional career, so I
thought I would try and make the one wish help the other."

"And the experiment has succeeded?"

"Yes."

"Are you very fond of your profession?"

"It is the finest profession in the world."

"All medical men say that," she remarked, smiling.

"Well, I can claim the merit--if it be a merit--of having arrived at that
conclusion before I became--"

"Eminent?" she suggested.

"Before I had taken my degree," I corrected.

"So you came and established yourself as a doctor in this old place?"

She glanced round meditatively.

"That seems to surprise you?"

"It is the dual character that surprises me," she answered, "Your practice
makes you a professional man, and you are a county magnate also by right
of your name and connections."

She evidently knew all about me already, and I was flattered by the
interest she showed, which I thought special until I found that she was in
the habit of knowing, and knowing accurately too, all about everyone with
whom she was brought into close contact.

"I cannot imagine how you find time for it all," she continued; "you are
not a general practitioner, I believe."

"Not exactly," I answered. "Of course I never refuse to attend in any case
of emergency, but my regular practice is all consultation, and my
speciality has somehow come to be nervous disorders. Sometimes I have my
house full of patients--interesting cases which require close attention."

"I know," she said, "and poor people who cannot pay as often as the rich
who will give you anything to attend them."

"I should very much like you to believe the most exaggerated accounts of
my generosity if any such are about," I hastened to assure her; "but
honesty compels me to explain that I benefit by every case which I treat
successfully."

"Goto! you do not deceive me," she answered, laughing up in my face.

Her manner had quite changed now. She recognized me as one of her own
caste, and knew that however friendly and familiar she might be I should
not presume.

When it was time to think of my other guests, she begged to be allowed to
remain in the library until they had all arrived.

"It would be such an exertion to have to explain to each one separately
how it is that I am here alone--and I do so dislike strange people," she
added plaintively. "It makes me quite _ill_ to have to meet them.
And, besides," she broke out laughing, "as it is a new place, perhaps I
ought to try and make myself interesting and of importance to the
inhabitants by coming in late! When you keep people waiting for dinner you
do become of consequence to them--to their comfort--and then they think of
you!"

"But not very charitably under such circumstances," I suggested.

"That depends," she answered. "If you arrive in time to save their
appetites, they will associate a pleasant sense of relief with your coming
which will make them think well of you for evermore. They mistake the
sensation for an opinion, and as they like it, they call it a good one!"

She looked pretty when she unbent like that and talked nonsense--or what
was apt to strike you as nonsensical until you came to consider it. For
there was often a depth of worldly wisdom and acuteness underlying her
most apparently careless sallies that surprised you.

She lingered long in the library--so long that at first I felt impatiently
that she might have remembered that I had an appetite as well as the
strangers within my gates with whom it apparently pleased her to trifle,
and I felt obliged, during an awkward pause, to account for the delay by
explaining for whom we were waiting. If she were in earnest about wishing
to make a sensation or attract special attention to herself, she had
gained her end, for the moment I mentioned the name of Colquhoun, people
began to speak of her, carefully, because nobody knew as yet who her
friends might be, but with interest. I never supposed for a moment,
however, that she was in earnest. There was something proudly
self-respecting about her which forbade all idea of anything so paltry as
manoeuvring. I did at first think that she might have fallen asleep; but,
afterward, on recollecting that she was a nervous subject, it occurred to
me that her courage might have failed her, and that she would never
present herself to a whole room full of strangers alone. Excusing myself to
my guests, therefore, as best I could, I went at last to the library, and
found that this latter surmise was correct. She was standing in the middle
of the room with her hands clasped, evidently in an agony of nervous
trepidation. I went up to her, however, as if I had not noticed it, and
offered her my arm.

"If you will come now, Mrs. Colquhoun," I said, "we will go to dinner."

She took my arm without a word, but I felt as soon as she touched me that
her confidence was rapidly returning, and by the time we had reached the
drawing room, and I had explained that Colonel Colquhoun had been detained
by duty most unfortunately, but Mrs. Colquhoun had been kind enough to
come nevertheless, she had quite recovered herself, and only a slight
exaggeration of the habitual _noli me tangere_ of her ordinary manner
remained in evidence of her shyness.

When we were seated at table, and she was undoubtedly at her ease again, I
expected to see her vivacity revive; but the nervous crisis had evidently
gone deeper than her manner, and affected her mood. I had left her all
life and animation, a mere girl bent upon pleasure, but with every
evidence of considerable capacity for the pursuit; but now, at dinner, she
sat beside me, cold, constrained, and listless, neither eating nor
interested; pretending, however, courageously, and probably deceiving
those about her with the even flow of polished periods which she kept up
to conceal her indifference. I thought perhaps her husband's absence had
something to do with it, and expected to see her brighten up when he
arrived. He did not come at all, however, and only once at table did she
show any sign of the genuine intellectual activity which I was now pretty
sure was either concealed or slumbering in these moods. The sign she made
was deceptive, and probably only a man of my profession, accustomed to
observe, and often obliged to judge more by indications of emotion than by
words, would have recognized its true significance. In the midst of her
chatter she became suddenly silent, and one might have been excused for
supposing that her mind was weary; but that, in truth, was the moment when
she really roused herself, and began to follow the conversation with close
attention. There was an old bore of a doctor at table that evening who
would insist on talking professionally, a thing which does not often
happen in my house, for I think, of all "shop," ours is the most
unsuitable for general conversation because of the morbid fascination it
has for most people. Ladies especially will listen with avidity to medical
matters, perceiving nothing gruesome in the details at the moment; but
afterward developing nerves on the subject, and probably giving the young
practitioner good reason to regret unwary confidences. I tried to stave
off the topic, but the will-power of the majority was against me, and
finally I found myself submitting, and following my friend's unwholesome
lead.

"You must have some curious experiences, in your branch of the profession
especially," the lady on my left remarked.

"We do," I said, answering her expectations against my better judgment,
and partly, I think, because this was the moment when Evadne woke up. "I
have had some myself. The extraordinary systems of fraud and deceit which
are carried on by certain patients, for no apparent purpose, would
astonish you. Their delight is essentially in the doing, and the one and
only end of it all is invariably the same: a morbid desire to excite
sympathy by making themselves interesting. I had one girl under my charge
for six months, during which time she suffered daily from long fainting
fits and other distressing symptoms which reduced her to the last degree
of emaciation, and puzzled me extremely because there was nothing to
account for them. Her heart was perfectly sound, yet she would lie in a
state of insensibility, livid and all but pulseless, by the hour together.
There was no disease of any organ, but certain symptoms, which could not
have been simulated, pointed to extensive disorder of one at least. It was
a case of hysteria clearly, but no treatment had the slightest effect upon
her, and, fearing for her life, I took her at last to Sir Shadwell Rock,
the best specialist for nervous disorders now alive. He confirmed my
diagnosis, and ordered the girl to be sent away from her friends with a
perfect stranger, a hard, cold, unsympathetic person who would irritate
her, if possible; and she was not to be allowed luxuries of any kind. I
had considered the advisability of such a course myself, but the girl
seemed too far gone for it, and I own I never expected to see her alive
again. After she went abroad I heard that when she fainted she was left
just where she fell to recover as best she could, and when any particular
food disagreed with her, it was served to her incessantly until she
professed to have got over her dislike for it; but in spite of such heroic
treatment she was not at that time any better. Then I lost sight of her,
and had forgotten the case, when one day, without any warning whatever,
she came into my consulting room, looking the picture of health and
happiness, and with a very fine child in her arms. 'I suppose you are
surprised to see me alive,' she said. 'I am married now, and this is my
boy--isn't he a beauty? And I am very happy--or rather I should be but for
one thing--that illness of mine--when I gave you so much trouble--' 'Oh,
don't mention that,' I interrupted, thinking she had come to overwhelm me
with undeserved thanks: 'My only trouble was that I could do nothing for
you. I hope you recovered soon after you went abroad?' 'As soon as I
thought fit,' she answered significantly, 'and that is what I have come
about. I want to confess. I want to relieve my mind of a burden of deceit.
Doctor--I was never insensible in one of those fainting fits; I never had
a symptom that I could not have controlled. I was shamming from beginning
to end.' 'Well, you nearly shammed yourself out of the world,' I said.
'Tell me how you did it?' 'I can't tell you exactly,' she answered. 'When
I wanted to appear to faint I just set my mind somehow--I can't do it now
that I am happy, and have plenty of interests in life. At that time I had
nothing to take me out of myself, and those daily doings were an endless
source of occupation and entertainment to me. But lately I have had qualms
of conscience on the subject.'"

"And was she cured?" Evadne asked.

"Oh, yes," I answered. "There was no fear for her after she confessed.
When the moral consciousness returns in such cases, and there is nothing
but relief of mind to be gained by confession, the cure is generally
complete."

"But what could have been the motive of such a fraud?" somebody asked.

"It is difficult to imagine," I answered. "Had it been more extensive the
explanation would have been easier; but as myself and the young lady's
parents were her only audience, I have never been able to account for it
satisfactorily."

I noticed, while I was speaking, that Evadne was thinking the problem out
for herself.

"She would not have given herself so much trouble without a very strong
motive," she now suggested, "and human passions are the strongest motives
for human actions, are they not?"

"Of course," I said, "but the question is, what passion prompted her. It
could not have been either anger, ambition, revenge, or jealousy."

"No," she answered, in the matter-of-fact tone of one who merely arrives
at a logical conclusion, "and it must therefore have been love. She was in
love with you, and tried in that way to excite your sympathy and attract
your attention."

"It is quite evident that view of the case never occurred to you,
Galbraith," Dr. About four o'clock Orville, who had not yet come from the day's
sport, appeared.

To say Orville was wet is not much; he was better than that,--he had
been washed and rinsed in at least half a dozen waters, and the trout
that he bore dangling at the end of a string hardly knew that they had
been out of their proper element.

But he brought welcome news. He had been two or three miles down the creek,
and had seen a log building,--whether house or stable he did not
know, but it had the appearance of having a good roof, which was
inducement enough for us instantly to leave our present quarters.

Our course lay along an old wood-road, and much of the time we were to
our knees in water. The woods were literally flooded everywhere.
Every little rill and springlet ran like a mill-tail, while the main
stream rushed and roared, foaming, leaping, lashing, its volume
increased fifty-fold. The water was not roily, but of a rich coffee-color,
from the leachings of the woods. No more trout for the next three
days! we thought, as we looked upon the rampant stream.

After we had labored and floundered along for about an hour, the road
turned to the left, and in a little stumpy clearing near the creek a
gable uprose on our view.

It did not prove to be just such a place as poets love to contemplate. It
required a greater effort of the imagination than any of us were then
capable of to believe it had ever been a favorite resort of wood-nymphs
or sylvan deities. It savored rather of the equine and the bovine. The
bark-men had kept their teams there, horses on the one side and oxen on the
other, and no Hercules had ever done duty in cleansing the stables. But
there was a dry loft overhead with some straw, where we might get
some sleep, in spite of the rain and the midges; a double layer of
boards, standing at a very acute angle, would keep off the former,
while the mingled refuse hay and muck beneath would nurse a smoke
that would prove a thorough protection against the latter.

And then, when Jim, the two-handed, mounting the trunk of a prostrate
maple near by, had severed it thrice with easy and familiar stroke,
and, rolling the logs in front of the shanty, had kindled a fire,
which, getting the better of the dampness, soon cast a bright glow
over all, shedding warmth and light even into the dingy stable, I
consented to unsling my knapsack and accept the situation.

The rain had ceased, and the sun shone out behind the woods.
We had trout sufficient for present needs; and after my first meal in an
ox-stall, I strolled out on the rude log bridge to watch the angry
Neversink rush by.

Its waters fell quite as rapidly as they rose, and before sundown
it looked as if we might have fishing again on the morrow.

We had better sleep that night than either night before, though there were
two disturbing causes,--the smoke in the early part of it, and the
cold in the latter.

The "no-see-ems" left in disgust; and, though disgusted myself, I swallowed
the smoke as best I could, and hugged my pallet of straw the closer. But
the day dawned bright, and a plunge in the Neversink set me all right
again. The creek, to our surprise and gratification, was only a little
higher than before the rain, and some of the finest trout we had yet seen
we caught that morning near camp.

We tarried yet another day and night at the old stable, but taking our meals
outside squatted on the ground, which had now become quite dry.
Part of the day I spent strolling about the woods, looking up old
acquaintances among the birds, and, as always, half expectant of
making some new ones.

Curiously enough, the most abundant species were among those I had found
rare in most other localities, namely, the small water-wagtail,
the mourning ground warbler, and the yellow-bellied woodpecker.

The latter seems to be the prevailing woodpecker through the woods
of this region.

That night the midges, those motes that sting, held high carnival.

We learned afterward, in the settlement below and from the barkpeelers,
that it was the worst night ever experienced in that valley.

We had done no fishing during the day, but had anticipated some fine sport
about sundown.

Accordingly Aaron and I started off between six and seven o'clock, one
going upstream and the other down. The scene was charming. The sun
shot up great spokes of light from behind the woods, and beauty,
like a presence, pervaded the atmosphere.

But torment, multiplied as the sands of the seashore, lurked in every tangle
and thicket. In a thoughtless moment I removed my shoes and socks, and
waded in the water to secure a fine trout that had accidentally slipped
from my string and was helplessly floating with the current. This caused
some delay and gave the gnats time to accumulate. Before I had
got one foot half dressed I was enveloped in a black mist that settled
upon my hands and neck and face, filling my ears with infinitesimal pipings
and covering my flesh with infinitesimal bitings. I thought I should
have to flee to the friendly fumes of the old stable, with "one
stocking off and one stocking on;" but I got my shoe on at last, though not
without many amusing interruptions and digressions.

In a few moments after this adventure I was in rapid retreat toward camp.
Just as I reached the path leading from the shanty to the creek, my
companion in the same ignoble flight reached it also, his hat broken and
rumpled, and his sanguine countenance looking more sanguinary than I had
ever before seen it, and his speech, also, in the highest degree inflammatory.
His face and forehead were as blotched and swollen as if he had just run
his head into a hornets' nest, and his manner as precipitate as if
the whole swarm was still at his back.

No smoke or smudge which we ourselves could endure was sufficient in the
earlier part of that evening to prevent serious annoyance from the same
cause; but later a respite was granted us.

About ten o'clock, as we stood round our camp-fire, we were startled by a
brief but striking display of the aurora borealis. My imagination had already
been excited by talk of legends and of weird shapes and appearances,
and when, on looking up toward the sky, I saw those pale, phantasmal
waves of magnetic light chasing each other across the little opening
above our heads, and at first sight seeming barely to clear the
treetops, I was as vividly impressed as if I had caught a glimpse
of a veritable spectre of the Neversink.

The sky shook and trembled like a great white curtain.

After we had climbed to our loft and had lain down to sleep, another
adventure befell us.

This time a new and uninviting customer appeared upon the scene,
the _genius loci_ of the old stable, namely, the "fretful porcupine."

We had seen the marks and work of these animals about the shanty, and had
been careful each night to hang our traps, guns, etc., beyond
their reach, but of the prickly night-walker himself we feared we
should not get a view.

We had lain down some half hour, and I was just on the threshold
of sleep, ready, as it were, to pass through the open door into the
land of dreams, when I heard outside somewhere that curious sound,--a
sound which I had heard every night I spent in these woods, not
only on this but on former expeditions, and which I had settled in
my mind as proceeding from the porcupine, since I knew the sounds
our other common animals were likely to make,--a sound that might
be either a gnawing on some hard, dry substance, or a grating of
teeth, or a shrill grunting.

Orville heard it also, and, raising up on his elbow, asked, "What is that?"

"What the hunters call a 'porcupig,'" said I.

"Sure?"

"Entirely so."

"Why does he make that noise?"

"It is a way he has of cursing our fire," I replied.

"I heard him last night also."
"Where do you suppose he is?" inquired my companion, showing a disposition
to look him up.

"Not far off, perhaps fifteen or twenty yards from our fire, where
the shadows begin to deepen."

Orville slipped into his trousers, felt for my gun, and in a moment had
disappeared down through the scuttle hole. I had no disposition to follow
him, but was rather annoyed than otherwise at the disturbance.
Getting the direction of the sound, he went picking his way over the
rough, uneven ground, and, when he got where the light failed him, poking
every doubtful object with the end of his gun.

Presently he poked a light grayish object, like a large round stone, which
surprised him by moving off.

On this hint he fired, making an incurable wound in the "porcupig," which,
nevertheless, tried harder than ever to escape.
I lay listening, when, close on the heels of the report of the gun, came
excited shouts for a revolver. Snatching up my Smith and Wesson, I hastened,
shoeless and hatless, to the scene of action, wondering what was up. I
found my companion struggling to detain, with the end of the gun,
an uncertain object that was trying to crawl off into the darkness. "Look
out!"

said Orville, as he saw my bare feet, "the quills are lying thick
around here."

And so they were; he had blown or beaten them nearly all off the poor
creature's back, and was in a fair way completely to disable my
gun, the ramrod of which was already broken and splintered clubbing
his victim.

But a couple of shots from the revolver, sighted by a lighted match,
at the head of the animal, quickly settled him.

He proved to be an unusually large Canada porcupine,--an old patriarch,
gray and venerable, with spines three inches long, and weighing,
I should say, twenty pounds.

The build of this animal is much like that of the woodchuck, that
is, heavy and pouchy.

The nose is blunter than that of the woodchuck, the limbs stronger,
and the tail broader and heavier.

Indeed, the latter appendage is quite club-like, and the animal
can, no doubt, deal a smart blow with it.

An old hunter with whom I talked thought it aided them in climbing.

They are inveterate gnawers, and spend much of their time in trees
gnawing the bark.

In winter one will take up its abode in a hemlock, and continue
there till the tree is quite denuded.

The carcass emitted a peculiar, offensive odor, and, though very
fat, was not in the least inviting as game.

If it is part of the economy of nature for one animal to prey upon
some other beneath it, then the poor devil has indeed a mouthful
that makes a meal off the porcupine.

Panthers and lynxes have essayed it, but have invariably left off at the
first course, and have afterwards been found dead, or nearly so,
with their heads puffed up like a pincushion, and the quills
protruding on all sides.

A dog that understands the business will manoeuvre round the porcupine
till he gets an opportunity to throw it over on its back, when he
fastens on its quilless underbody.

Aaron was puzzled to know how long-parted friends could embrace, when
it was suggested that the quills could be depressed or elevated
at pleasure.

The next morning boded rain; but we had become thoroughly sated with the
delights of our present quarters, outside and in, and packed up our traps
to leave. Before we had reached the clearing, three miles below, the
rain set in, keeping up a lazy, monotonous drizzle till the
afternoon.

The clearing was quite a recent one, made mostly by barkpeelers,
who followed their calling in the mountains round about in summer,
and worked in their shops making shingle in winter.

The Biscuit Brook came in here from the west,--a fine, rapid trout stream
six or eight miles in length, with plenty of deer in the mountains
about its head.

On its banks we found the house of an old woodman, to whom we had
been directed for information about the section we proposed to
traverse.

"Is the way very difficult," we inquired, "across from the Neversink
into the head of the Beaver-kill?"

"Not to me; I could go it the darkest night ever was. And I can
direct you so you can find the way without any trouble.

You go down the Neversink about a mile, when you come to Highfall
Brook, the first stream that comes down on the right.

Follow up it to Jim Reed's shanty, about three miles.

Then cross the stream, and on the left bank, pretty well up on the side
of the mountain, you will find a wood-road, which was made by a fellow
below here who stole some ash logs off the top of the ridge last winter
and drew them out on the snow.

When the road first begins to tilt over the mountain, strike down to
your left, and you can reach the Beaverkill before sundown."
As it was then after two o'clock, and as the distance was six or eight
of these terrible hunters' miles, we concluded to take a whole day
to it, and wait till next morning.

The Beaverkill flowed west, the Neversink south, and I had a mortal dread
of getting entangled amid the mountains and valleys that lie in either
angle.

Besides, I was glad of another and final opportunity to pay my respects
to the finny tribes of the Neversink. At this point it was one of the finest
trout streams I had ever beheld. It was so sparkling, its bed so free
from sediment or impurities of any kind, that it had a new look, as if
it had just come from the hand of its Creator. I tramped along
its margin upward of a mile that afternoon, part of the time wading to my
knees, and casting my hook, baited only with a trout's fin, to the opposite
bank. Trout are real cannibals, and make no bones, and break none
either, in lunching on each other.

A friend of mine had several in his spring, when one day a large
female trout gulped down one of her male friends, nearly one third
her own size, and went around for two days with the tail of her
liege lord protruding from her mouth!

A fish's eye will do for bait, though the anal fin is better. One of the
natives here told me that when he wished to catch large trout (and I
judged he never fished for any other,--I never do), he used for bait the
bullhead, or dart, a little fish an inch and a half or two inches
long, that rests on the pebbles near shore and darts quickly, when
disturbed, from point to point. "Put that on your hook," said he,
"and if there is a big fish in the creek, he is bound to have it." But the
darts were not easily found; the big fish, I concluded, had cleaned
them all out; and, then, it was easy enough to supply our wants
with a fin.

Declining the hospitable offers of the settlers, we spread our blankets
that night in a dilapidated shingle-shop on the banks of the Biscuit
Brook, first flooring the damp ground with the new shingle that lay
piled in one corner. The place had a great-throated chimney with a tremendous
expanse of fireplace within, that cried "More!" at every morsel of wood we
gave it.

But I must hasten over this part of the ground, nor let the delicious
flavor of the milk we had that morning for breakfast, and that was
so delectable after four days of fish, linger on my tongue; nor yet
tarry to set down the talk of that honest, weatherworn passer-by
who paused before our door, and every moment on the point of resuming
his way, yet stood for an hour and recited his adventures hunting
deer and bears on these mountains.

Having replenished our stock of bread and salt pork at the house of one of
the settlers, midday found us at Reed's shanty,--one of those temporary
structures erected by the bark jobber to lodge and board his "hands"
near their work.

Jim not being at home, we could gain no information from the "women folks"
about the way, nor from the men who had just come in to dinner; so we
pushed on, as near as we could, according to the instructions we had
previously received.
Crossing the creek, we forced our way up the side of the mountain,
through a perfect _cheval-de-frise_ of fallen and peeled hemlocks,
and, entering the dense woods above, began to look anxiously about
for the wood-road.

My companions at first could see no trace of it; but knowing that
a casual wood-road cut in winter, when there was likely to be two
or three feet of snow on the ground, would present only the slightest
indications to the eye in summer, I looked a little closer, and
could make out a mark or two here and there.

The larger trees had been avoided, and the axe used only on the
small saplings and underbrush, which had been lopped off a couple
of feet from the ground.

By being constantly on the alert, we followed it till near the top of
the mountain; but, when looking to see it "tilt" over the other
side, it disappeared altogether.

Some stumps of the black cherry were found, and a solitary pair of
snow-shoes was hanging high and dry on a branch, but no further trace
of human hands could we see.

While we were resting here a couple of hermit thrushes, one of them with
some sad defect in his vocal powers which barred him from uttering
more than a few notes of his song, gave voice to the solitude of
the place.

I
only glanced at her, but, in the act of doing so, I suddenly became aware,
by one of those curious flashes of imperfect recollection which come to us
all at times to torment us, that I had seen her somewhere, before I knew
who she was, in that attitude exactly; but where, or under what
circumstance, I failed to recollect. The impression, however, was
indelible, and haunted me ever afterward.

"Now, there's Diavolo," Colonel Colquhoun continued--the exchange I had
suggested had been effected by this time, and Diavolo was quartered at the
depôt--not exactly to Colonel Colquhoun's delight, perhaps, but he was
very good about it. "Now, there's Diavolo. He tells me to my face that he
was the first to propose to Mrs. Colquhoun, and always meant to marry her,
and means it still. He said to me coaxingly, only last Friday, when I was
coming out of barracks: 'Take me home with you to-day, sir.' And I
answered, pretending to be severe, but pulling his sleeve, you know:
'Indeed I won't. You'll be making love to Mrs. Colquhoun.' And he got very
red, and said quite huffily; 'Well, I think you might let a fellow look at
her.' And of course I had to bring him back with me, and he sat down on
the floor at her feet there, and got on with the most ridiculous nonsense.
You couldn't help laughing! 'I should like to kill you, and carry her
off,' he said, for all the world as if he meant it. And no more harm in
the boy, either, than there is in Evadne herself," Colonel Colquhoun added
good-humouredly.

This is a specimen of the man at his best. Latterly I had seldom seen him
in such a genial mood at home--abroad he brightened up. But in his own
house _now_--for a process of deterioration had been going on ever
since his arrival in Morningquest--his mind was apt to resemble a dark
cave which is transformed diurnally by a single shaft of sunshine which
streams in for a brief space at a certain hour. The happy moment with him
occurred about the time of the tenth brandy-and-soda, as nearly as I could
calculate, and it lasted till the eleventh, when he usually relapsed into
gloom again, and became overcast until the next recurrence of the
phenomena. But whatever his mood was, Evadne humoured it. She responded
always--or tried to--when he was genial; and when he was morose, she was
dumb. I thought her a model wife.


CHAPTER VII.


After her illness Evadne spent much of her time in the west window of the
drawing room at As-You-Like-It with her little work-table beside her,
embroidering. I never saw her reading, and there were no books about the
room; but the work she did was beautiful. She used to have a stand before
her with flowers arranged upon it, and copy them on to some material in
coloured silks direct from nature. She could not draw either with pen or
pencil, or paint with a brush, but she could copy with her needle quite
accurately, and would do a spray of lilies to the life, or in the most
approved conventional manner, if it pleased her. Her not being able to
draw struck me as a curious limitation, and I asked her once if she could
account for it in any way.

"I believe I am an example of how much we owe to early influences," she
answered, laughing; "and probably I have the talent both for drawing and
painting in me, but it remains latent for want of cultivation. My mother
drew and painted beautifully as a girl, but she had given both up before I
was old enough to imitate her, and only copied flowers as I do with her
needle, and I used to watch her at her work until I felt impelled to do
the same. If she had gone on with her drawing I am sure I should have
drawn too; but as it was, I never thought of trying."

"Moral for mothers," I observed: "Keep up your own accomplishments if you
would have your daughters shine."

Evadne was not enough in the fresh air at this time, and she was too much
alone. I ventured once, in my professional capacity, to say that she
should have friends to stay with her occasionally, but she passed the
suggestion off without either accepting or declining it, and then I spoke
to Colonel Colquhoun. He, however, pooh-poohed the idea altogether.

"She's all right," he said. "You don't know her. She always lives like
that; it's her way."

I also counselled regular exercise, and to that she replied: "I _do_
go out. Why, you passed me yourself on the road only the other day."

I certainly had seen her more than once, alone, miles away from home,
walking at the top of her speed, as if impelled by some strong emotion or
inexorable necessity, and I did not like the sign. "One or two hours' walk
regularly every day is what you should take," I told her. "The virtue of
it is in the regularity. If you make a habit of taking a short walk daily
you will have got more sunshine and fresh air, which is what you specially
require, in one year than you will in two if you continue to go out in a
jerky, irregular way. And you must give up covering impossible distances
in feverish haste, as you do now. Walk gently, and make yourself feel that
you have full leisure to walk as long as you like. You will find the
effect tranquillizing. It is a common mistake to make a business of taking
exercise. I am constantly lecturing my patients about it. If you want
exercise to raise your spirits, brace your nerves, and do you good
generally, it must be all pure pleasure without conscious exertion.
Pleasurable moments prolong life."

"Thank you," Evadne answered gently. "I know, of course, that you are
right, and I will do my best to profit by your advice, if it be only to
show you how much I appreciate your kindness. But I must have a scamper
occasionally, a regular _burst_, you know. Please don't stop that!
The indulgence, when I am in the mood, is my pet vice at present."

The great drawing room at As-You-Like-It, which I had mentioned in my
letter to Lady Adeline as containing the one bright spot in that gloomy
abode, was an addition tacked on to the end of the house, and evidently an
afterthought. It was entered by a flight of shallow steps from the hall,
and was above the level of the public road, which ran close past that end
of the house, the grounds and approach being on the other side. It was
lighted by three high narrow windows looking toward the north, and three
more close together looking west, and forming a bay so deep as to be quite
a small room in itself. It almost overhung the high-road, only a tall
holly-hedge being between them, but so near that the topmost twigs of the
holly grew up to the window-sill. It was a quiet road, however, too far
from the town for much traffic, and Evadne could sit there with the
windows open undisturbed, and enjoy the long level prospect of fertile
land, field and fallow, wood and water, that lay before her. She sat in
the centre window, and I think it was from thence that she learnt to
appreciate the charms of a level landscape as you look down upon it, about
which I heard her discourse so eloquently in after days. It was her chosen
corner, and there she sat silent many and many an hour, with busy fingers
and thoughts we could not follow, communing at times with nature, I doubt
not, or with her own heart, and thankful to be still.

The road beneath her was one I had to traverse regularly, and it became a
habit to look up as I drove past. If she were in her accustomed seat she
usually raised her eyes from her work for a moment to smile me a greeting.
Once she was standing up, leaning languidly against the window frame,
twirling a rose in her fingers, but she straightened herself into
momentary energy when she recognized me, and threw the rose at me with
accurate aim. It was the youngest and most familiar thing I had known her
do--an impulse of pure mischief, I thought, for the rose was _La
France_, and the sentiment, as I translated it, was: "You will value it
more than I do!" For she hated the French.

There often occurs and recurs to the mind incessantly a verse or an apt
quotation in connection with some act or event, a haunting definition of
the impression it makes upon us, and Evadne in the wide west window,
bending busily over her work, set my mind on one occasion to a borrowed
measure of words which never failed me from that time forward when I saw
her so engaged:

  There she weaves by night and day
  A magic web of colour gay.
  She has heard a whisper say,
  A curse is on her if she stay
  To look down to Camelot.
  She knows not what the curse may be,
  And so she weaveth steadily,
  And little other care hath she,
  The lady of Shalott.

But where was Camelot? Fountain Towers, just appearing above the tree-tops
to the north, was the only human habitation in sight. I had a powerful
telescope on the highest tower, and one day, in an idle mood, I happened
to be looking through it with no definite purpose, just sweeping it slowly
from point to point of the landscape, when all at once Evadne came into
the field of vision with such startling distinctness that I stepped back
from the glass. She was sitting in her accustomed place, with her work on
her lap, her hands clasped before her, leaning forward looking up in my
direction with an expression in her whole attitude that appealed to me
like a cry for help. The impression was so strong that I ordered my
dogcart out and drove over to As-You-Like-It at once. But I found her
perfectly tranquil when I arrived, with no trace of recent emotion either
in her manner or appearance.

When I went home I had the telescope removed. I had forgotten that we
overlooked that corner of As-You-Like-It.


CHAPTER VIII.


The idea that Evadne was naturally unsociable was pretty general, and
Colonel Colquhoun believed it as much as anybody. I remember being at
As-You-Like-It one afternoon when he rallied her on the subject. He had
stopped me as I was driving past to ask me to look at a horse he was
thinking of buying. The animal was being trotted up and down the approach
by a groom for our inspection when Evadne returned from somewhere, driving
herself.

She pulled up beside us and got out.

"I never see you driving any of your friends about," Colonel Colquhoun
remarked. "You're very unsociable, Evadne."

"Oh, well, you see," she answered slowly, "I like to be alone and think
when I am driving. It worries me to have to talk to people--as a rule."

"Well," he said, glancing at the reeking pony, "if your thoughts went as
fast as Blue Mick seems to have done to-day, you must have got through a
good deal of thinking in the time."

Evadne looked at the pony. "Take him round," she said to the groom; and
then she remarked that it must be tea-time, and asked us both to go in,
and have some.

The air had brought a delicate tinge of colour to her usually pale cheeks,
and she looked bright and bonny as she sat beside the tea-table, taking
off her gloves and chatting, with her hat pushed slightly up from her
forehead. It was an expansive moment with her, one of the rare ones when
she unconsciously revealed something of herself in her conversation.

There were some flowers on the tea-table which I admired.

"Ah!" she said, with a sigh of satisfaction in their beauty; "I derive all
my pleasure in life from things inanimate. An arrangement of deep-toned
marigolds with brown centres in a glass like these, all aglow beneath the
maiden-hair, gives me more pleasure than anything else I can think of at
this moment."

"Not more pleasure than your friends do," I ventured.

"I don't know," she replied. "In the matter of love _surgit amari
aliquid_. Friends disappoint us. But in the contemplation of flowers
all our finer feelings are stimulated and blended, and yet there is no
excess of feeling to end in regrets, or a painful reaction. When the
flowers fade, we cheerfully gather fresh ones. But I hope I do not
undervalue my friends," she broke off. "I only mean to say--when you think
of all the uncertainties of life, of sickness and death, and other things
more dreadful, which overtake our dearest, do what we will to protect them;
and then that worst thing whether it be in ourselves or others: I mean
change--when you think of it all, surely it is well to turn to some
delicate source of delight, like this, for relief--and to forget," and she
curved her slender hand round the flowers caressingly, looking up at me at
the same time as if she were pleading to be allowed to have her own way.

I did not remonstrate with her. I hardly knew the danger then myself of
refusing to suffer.

It was some weeks before I saw her again after that. I had been busy. But
one day, as I was driving into Morningquest, I overtook her on the road,
walking in the same direction. I was in a close carriage, but I pulled the
checkstring as soon as I recognized her, and got out. She turned when she
heard the carriage stop, and seeing me alight came forward and shook
hands. She looked wan and weary.

"Those are fine horses of yours," was her smileless greeting. "How are
you?"

"Have you been having a 'burst'?" I said--she was quite five miles from
home. She looked up and down the road for answer, and affected to laugh,
but I could see that she was not at all in a laughing mood, and also that
she was already over-fatigued. I thought of begging to be allowed to drive
her back, but then it occurred to me that, even if she consented, which
was not likely, as she had a perfect horror of giving trouble, and would
never have been persuaded that I was not going out of my way at the
greatest personal inconvenience merely to pay her a polite attention; but
even if she had consented, she would probably have had to spend the rest
of the day alone in that great west window, with nothing to take her out
of herself, and nothing more enlivening to look at than dreary winter
fields under a sombre sky, and that would not do at all. A better idea,
however, occurred to me.

"I am going to see Mrs. Orton Beg," I said. "She is not very well."

Evadne had been staring blandly at the level landscape, but she turned to
me when I spoke, and some interest came into her eyes.

"Have you seen her lately," I continued.

"N-no," she answered, as if she were considering; "not for some time."

"Come now," I boldly suggested. "It will do her good. I won't talk if you
want to think," I added.

Her face melted into a smile at this, and on seeing her stiffness relax, I
wasted no more time in persuasion, but returned to the carriage and held
the door open for her. She followed me slowly, although she looked as if
she had not quite made up her mind, and got in; but still as if she were
hesitating. Once she was seated, however, I could see that she was not
sorry she had yielded; and presently she acknowledged as much herself.

"I believe I was tired," she said,

"Rest now, then," I answered, taking a paper out of my pocket. She settled
herself more luxuriously in her corner, put her arm in the strap, and
looked out through the open window. The day was mild though murky, the sky
was leaden gray. We rolled through the wintry landscape rapidly--brown
hedgerows, leafless trees, ploughed fields, a crow, two crows, a whole
flock home-returning from their feeding ground; scattered cottages, a
woman at a door looking out with a child in her arms, three boys swinging
on a gate, a man trudging along with a bundle, a labourer trimming a bank;
mist rising in the low-lying meadows; grazing cattle, nibbling sheep;--but
she did not see these things at first, any of them; she was thinking. Then
she began to see, and forgot to think. Then her fatigue wore off, and a
sense of relief, of ease, and of well-being generally, took gradual
possession of her. I could see the change come into her countenance, and
before we had arrived in Morningquest, she had begun to talk to me
cheerfully of her own accord. We had to skirt the old gray walls which
surrounded the palace gardens, and as we did so, she looked up at
them--indifferently at first, but immediately afterward with a sudden
flash of recognition. She said nothing, but I could see she drew herself
together as if she had been hurt.

"Do you go there often?" I asked her.

"No--Edith died there; and then that child," she answered, looking at me
as if she were surprised that I should have thought it likely.

"She shrinks from sorrowful associations and painful sights," I thought.
But I did not know, when I asked the question, that our poor Edith had
been a particular friend of hers.

We stopped the next moment at Mrs. Orton Beg's, and she leant forward to
look at the windows, smiling and brightening again.

I helped her out and followed her to the door, which she opened as if she
were at home there. She waited for me for a moment in the hall till I put
my hat down, and then we went to the drawing room together, and walked in
in the same familiar way.

Mrs. Orton Beg was there with another lady, a stout but very comely
person, handsomely dressed, who seemed to have just risen to take her
leave.

The moment Evadne saw this lady she sprang forward. "_Oh, Mother!_"
she cried, throwing her arms round her neck.

"Evadne--my dear, dear child!" the lady exclaimed, clasping her close and
kissing her, and then, holding her off to look at her. "Why, my child, how
thin you are, and pale, and weak--"

"Oh, mother--I _am_ so glad! I _am_ so glad!" Evadne cried
again, nestling close up to her, and kissing her neck; and then she laid
her head on her bosom and burst into hysterical sobs.

I instantly left the room, and Mrs. Orton Beg followed me.

"They have not met since--just after Evadne's marriage," she explained to
me. "Evadne offended her father, and there still seems to be no hope of a
reconciliation."

"But surely it is cruel to separate mother and child," I exclaimed
indignantly. "He has no right to do that."

"No, and he would not be able to do it with one of us," she answered
bitterly; "but my sister is of a yielding disposition. She is like Mrs.
Beale, one of the old-fashioned 'womanly women,' who thought it their duty
to submit to everything, and make the best of everything, including
injustice, and any other vice it pleased their lords to practise. But for
this weakness of good women the world would be a brighter and better place
by this time. We see the disastrous folly of submitting our reason to the
rule of self-indulgence and self-interest now, however; and, please God,
we shall change all that before I die. He will be a bold man soon who will
dare to have the impertinence to dictate to us as to what we should or
should not do, or think, or say. No one can pretend that the old system of
husband and master has answered well, and it has had a fair trial. Let us
hope that the new method of partnership will be more successful."

"Yes, indeed!" I answered earnestly.

Mrs. Orton Beg looked up in my face, and her own countenance cleared.

"You and Evadne seem to be very good friends," she said. "I am so glad."
Then she looked up at me again, with a curious little smile which I could
not interpret. "Does she remind you of anybody--of anything, ever?" she
asked.

"Why--surely she is like you," I said, seeing a likeness for the first
time.

"Yes," she answered, in a more indifferent tone. "There is a likeness, I
am told."

I tried afterward to think that this explained the haunting half
recollection I seemed to have of something about Evadne; but it did not.
On the contrary, it re-awakened and confirmed the feeling that I had seen
Evadne before I knew who she was, under circumstances which I now failed
to recall.

Thinking she would like to be alone after that interview with her mother,
I left the carriage for her, and walked back to Fountain Towers; and the
state I was in after doing the ten miles warned me that I had been
luxuriating too much in carriages lately, and must begin to practise what
I preached again in the way of exercise, if I did not wish to lay up a fat
and flabby old age for myself.

I made a point of not seeing Evadne for some little time after that event,
so that she might not feel bound to refer to it in case she should shrink
from doing so. But the next time we met, as it happened, I had another
glimpse of her feeling for her friends, which showed me how very much
mistaken I had been in my estimate of the depth of her affections. It was
at As-You-Like-It. I had walked over from Fountain Towers, and dropped in
casually to ask for some tea, and, Colonel Colquhoun arriving at the same
moment from barracks, we went up to the drawing room together, and found
Evadne in her accustomed place, busy with her embroidery as usual. She
shook hands, but said nothing to show that she was aware of the interval
there had been since she saw me last. When she sat down again, however,
she went on with her work, and there was a certain satisfied look in her
face, as if some little wish had been gratified and she was content. I
knew when she took up her work that she liked me to be there, and wanted
me to stay, for she always put it down when visitors she did not care for
called, and made a business of entertaining them. But we had scarcely
settled ourselves to talk when the butler opened the door, and announced
"Mr. Bertram Frayling," and a tall, slender, remarkably handsome young
fellow, with a strong family likeness to Evadne herself, entered with
boyish diffidence, smiling nervously, but looking important, too. Evadne
jumped up impetuously.

"_Bertram_!" she exclaimed, holding out her arms to him. "Why, what a
big fellow you have grown!" she cried, finding she could hardly reach to
his neck to hug him. "And how handsome you are!"

"They say I am just like you," he answered, looking down at her lovingly,
with his arm around her waist. Neither of them took any notice of us.

"This is your birthday, dear," Evadne said. "I have been thinking of you
the whole day long. I always keep all the birthdays. Did you remember
mine?"

"I--don't think I did," he answered honestly. "But this is my twenty-first
birthday, Evadne, and that's how it is I am here. I am my own master from
to-day."

"And the first thing you do with your liberty is to come and see your
sister," said Colonel Colquhoun. "You're made of the right stuff, my boy,"
and he shook hands with him heartily.

Evadne clung with one hand to his shoulder, and pressed her handkerchief
first to this eye and then to that alternately with the other, looking so
glad, however, at the same time, that it was impossible to say whether she
was going to laugh or cry for joy.

"But aren't there rejoicings?" she asked.

"Oh, yes!" he answered. "But I told my father if you were not asked I
should not stay for them. I was determined to see you to-day." He flushed
boyishly as he spoke, and smiled round upon us all again.

"But wasn't he very angry?" Evadne said.

"Yes," her brother answered, twinkling. "The girls got round him, and
tried to persuade him, but they only made him worse, especially when they
all declared that when they came of age they meant to do _something_,
too! He said that he was afflicted with the most obstinate,
ill-conditioned family in the county, and began to row mother as if it
were her fault. But I wouldn't stand that!"

"You were right, Bertram," Evadne exclaimed, clenching her hands. "Now
that you are a man, never let mother be made miserable. Did she know you
were coming?"

"Yes, and was very glad," he answered, "and sent you messages."

But here Colonel Colquhoun and I managed to slip from the room. Evadne
sent her brother back that day to grace the close of the festivities in
his honour, but he returned the following week, and stayed at
As-You-Like-It, and also with me, when he confirmed my first exceedingly
good impression of him. Evadne quite wakened up under his influence, but,
unfortunately for her, he went abroad in a few weeks for a two years' trip
round the world, and, I think, losing him again so soon made it almost
worse for her than if they had never been reunited, especially as another
and irreparable loss came upon her immediately after his departure. This
was the sudden death of her mother, the news of which arrived one day in a
curt note written by her father to Colonel Colquhoun, no previous
intimation of illness having been sent to break the shock of the
announcement. "Milton scarcely heard her. He was too intent upon wondering
how Robert came to be dining tête-à-tête with the one-time Adeline Goodrin,
and--if the truth be told--upon that amazing woman, herself."
_"Daily Mail" feuilleton._
* * * * *
From _Chemistry of Plant Products_:--
"D'Arbamont concludes that starch, and presumably also sugar, may or may
not be essential for the formation of chlorophyll."
We came to the same conclusion long ago.

* * * * *
Illustration: _Excited Veteran._ "THE ALLIES WILL PROBABLY REACH HERE
AND THEN SWEEP ROUND WITH A SUDDEN FLANKING MOVEMENT."
* * * * *
OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

(_By Mr. Punch's Staff of Learned Clerks._)
The heroine of _Alberta and the Others_ (SIDGWICK AND JACKSON) was the eldest
of an orphaned family of girls and boys who were finding life a
little boring in an English village; and when an unexpected legacy made
her mistress of a couple of town lots in a place called Sunshine, in
Western Canada, nothing would content her but to emigrate with the whole
tribe--reinforced by a delightful _Aunt Mary_ and an animal known as the
Meritorious Cat--to the Land of Promise. The book is the history of how
they got on there. Naturally, from the circumstances of their start and the
giddy altitude of _Alberta's_ hopes, you will be prepared for its being,
to some extent at least, a story of disillusion. Miss MADGE S.
SMITH, who wrote it, says that it is all true; and indeed there is much
in the tale that stamps it as the outcome of personal experience. This
being so, I could wish that her attitude in the matter had been a
little less uncompromisingly English. In many ways the language and general
outlook of the daughter of an Oxford don will no doubt differ
considerably from that of a Canadian-born inhabitant of a prairie township;
but that is no good reason for assuming an air of patronage.

However, this defect, though it exists, is not so pronounced as to
spoil one's enjoyment of an entertaining record, written, as the
publishers say, "in high spirits throughout," and having, I fancy,
just this much fiction mingled with its obvious fact, that it ends
with a general pairing off and the prospect of three weddings--which
seems, as _Lady Bracknell_ observed in a similar connection, "a
number considerably above the average that statistics have laid
down for our guidance."

But at least it is the _amende honorable_ to the Land of Promise.

* * * * *
From the cover of _A Tail of Gold_ (HODDER AND STOUGHTON) I gather with
respectful interest that its author, Mr. DAVID HENNESSEY, recently won
four hundred pounds with another story in open competition. I did not read
the story in question, but in view of its satisfactory financial result I
may be permitted to express a hope that it was considerably better work
than the present volume. Let me be entirely fair. _A Tail of Gold_ has
some pictures of Australian mining life that are not without interest;
but I am bound to add that a careful and sympathetic perusal has failed
to disclose any other reason for its existence. The plot, so far as
there is one, concerns the chequered career of a certain _Major
Smart_, who seems to have been by no means all that a major should be.
Amongst other unpleasing peculiarities, he was apparently possessed of a
fetish that brought misfortune or death to all who were associated with
him. These results were in the main involuntary; but it is only just
to add that _Smart_ was not above assisting nature to take her course.
Thus, some years before the opening of the story, he had deliberately
buried one poor lady alive in a cave containing sulphide of mercury.

Never ask me why. I am as muddled by this as I am over his further conduct
in leaving with the corpse every possible clue in the way of letters and
ciphers that could bring his guilt home to him. In any ordinary novel he
would have been convicted in a few chapters; but _A Tail of Gold_ wags
(if I may use the term) so leisurely, and its action is so much impeded
by false starts and repetitions and general haphazardness, that there is
no telling how long it might not have continued but for the limitations
of volume form.
I found her one day sitting on the bridge of a little
river that crossed a quiet lane near their house, and got down from my
horse to talk to her, and as we stood looking over the parapet looking
into the stream, the bloated carcase of a dead dog came floating by. She
could only have caught a glimpse of it, for she drew back instantly, but
she looked so pale and nauseated that I had to take her to the house, and
insist upon her having some wine. And I once took her, at her own earnest
request, to visit a children's hospital; but before we had seen a dozen of
the little patients she cried so piteously I was obliged to take her away;
and she could never bear to speak of the place afterward. And lastly, I
had seen how she shrank from going to the palace because of the
association with Edith's terrible death, and the chance of seeing her
poor, repulsive looking little boy there.

Yet when it came to be a question of facing absolute horrors in the
interests of the sufferers, she was the first to volunteer, and she did so
with a quiet determination there was no resisting, and every trace of
inward emotion so carefully obliterated that one might have been forgiven
for supposing her to be altogether callous.

This happened after her mother's death, In the spring, when she had
already begun to revive, and was the first startling symptom she showed of
the new phase of interest and energy upon which I suspected she was
entering. I hoped at the time that the great grief had carried off the
minor ailments of the mind as the great illness did of the body, and that
the change would prove to be for the better eventually, although the first
outcome of it was not the kind of thing I liked at all--for her.

I had not seen her for a week or so when she was ushered one morning into
my consulting room. She had not asked for an appointment, and had been
waiting to take her turn with the other patients.

"Well, what can I do for _you?_" I said. I was somewhat surprised to
see her. "You don't look very ill."

"No, thank goodness," she answered cheerfully; "and I don't mean to be
ill. I have come to be vaccinated."

"Ah. that is wise," I said.

"You have heard, I suppose, that small-pox has broken out in the
barracks?" she said when she was going. "There are fifteen cases, four of
them women, and one a child, and they are going to put them under canvas
on the common, and I shall be obliged to go and see that they are properly
nursed. That is why I am in such a hurry. Military nursing is of the most
primitive kind in times of peace. Our doctor is all that he should be, but
what can he do but prescribe? It takes all his time just to go round and
get through his ordinary duties."

"Did I understand you to say that you are going to look after the
small-pox patients?" I asked politely.

"Yes," she answered defiantly. "I am going to be isolated with them out on
the common. My tent is already pitched. I shall not take small-pox, I
assure you."

"I don't see how you can be so sure," I said.

She gave me one of her most puzzling answers, one of those in which I felt
there was an indication of the something about her which I did not
understand.

"Oh, because it is such a relief!" she said.

"How a relief?" I questioned.

"Oh--I shall not take the disease," she repeated, "and I shall enjoy the
occupation."

But this, I knew, was an evasion. However, I had no time to argue the
point with her just then, so I waited until my consultations were over,
and then went to see Colonel Colquhoun. I thought if he would not forbid
he might at all events persuade her to abandon her rash design. I found
him at his own place, walking about the garden with his hands in his
pockets, and a cigar in his mouth. He was in a facetious mood, the one of
his I most disliked.

"Now, you look quite concerned," he said, with an extra affectation of
brogue, when I had told him my errand. "Sure, she humbugs you, Evadne
does! If you knew her as well as I do, you'd not be troubling yourself
about her so much. I tell you, she'll come to no harm in the world. Now
what do you think were her reasons for going to live in the small-pox
camp?"

"Then she _has_ gone!" I exclaimed.

"Oh, yes, she's gone," he answered. "The grass never has time to grow
under that young woman's feet if she's an idea to carry out, I will say
that for her. But what do you think she said when I asked her why she'd be
going among the small-pox patients? 'Oh,' she said, 'I want to see what
they look like!' And she'd another reason, too. She'll make herself look
like an interesting nurse, you know, and quite enjoy dressing up for the
part."

I felt sure that all this was a horrid perversion of the truth, but I let
it pass.

"You'll not interfere, then?" I persisted.

"Not I, indeed!" he answered. "She never comes commandering it over me,
and I'm not going to meddle with her private affairs, so long as she
doesn't come here bringing infection, that's all."

"But she may catch the disease herself and die of it, or be disfigured for
life," I remonstrated.

"And she might catch her death of cold here in the garden, or be burnt
beyond all recognition by a spark setting fire to her ball-dress the next
time she wears one," he answered philosophically. "When you look at the
chances, now, they're about equal."

He smiled at me complacently when he had said this, and something he saw
in my face inclined him to chuckle, but he suppressed the inclination,
twirling his fair moustache instead, first on one side and then on the
other, rapidly. In his youth he must have been one of those small boys who
delighted to spear a bee with a pin and watch it buzz round. The boy is
pretty sure the bee can't hurt him, but yet half the pleasure of the
performance lies in the fact of its having a sting. It would not have been
convenient for Colonel Colquhoun to quarrel with me, because there had
been certain money transactions between us which left him greatly my
debtor; but he thought me secured by my interest in Evadne, and indulged
himself on every possible occasion in the pleasure of opposing me. Not
that he bore me any ill-will, either. I knew that he would borrow more
money from me at any time in the friendliest way, if he happened to want
it. I was his honey bee, and he was fond of honey; but it delighted him
also to see me buzz.

I was obliged to consider my own patients and keep away from the small-pox
camp during the epidemic, for fear of carrying infection, and consequently
I saw nothing of Evadne, and only heard of her through the military
doctor, for she would not write. His report of her, however, was always
the same at first. She was the life of the camp, bright, cheerful, and
active, never tired apparently, and never disheartened. This went on for
some time, and then, one evening, there came another report. She was just
as cheerful as ever, but looking most awfully done.

At daybreak next morning I drove out to the common, and, leaving my
dogcart outside the camp, went in to look for her. I knew that she was
generally up all night, and was therefore prepared to find her about, and
I met her making her way toward her own tent. How many eyes did Gilbert
White open? how many did Henry Thoreau? how many did Audubon?
how many does the hunter, matching his sight against the keen and alert
sense of a deer or a moose, or fox or a wolf? Not outward eyes, but
inward.

We open another eye whenever we see beyond the first general features or
outlines of things,--whenever we grasp the special details and characteristic
markings that this mask covers. Science confers new powers of
vision.
Whenever you have learned to discriminate the birds, or the plants, or the
geological features of a country, it is as if new and keener eyes were
added.

Of course one must not only see sharply, but read aright what he
sees.

The facts in the life of Nature that are transpiring about us are
like written words that the observer is to arrange into sentences.

Or the writing is in cipher and he must furnish the key. A female oriole
was one day observed very much preoccupied under a shed where the
refuse from the horse stable was thrown. She hopped about among the
barn fowls, scolding them sharply when they came too near her. The stable,
dark and cavernous, was just beyond. The bird, not finding what she wanted
outside, boldly ventured into the stable, and was presently captured by
the farmer. What did she want? was the query. What but a horsehair for her
nest which was in an apple-tree near by? and she was so bent on having one
that I have no doubt she would have tweaked one out of the horse's
tail had he been in the stable.

Later in the season I examined her nest, and found it sewed through and
through with several long horsehairs, so that the bird persisted in her
search till the hair was found.

Little dramas and tragedies and comedies, little characteristic
scenes, are always being enacted in the lives of the birds, if our
eyes are sharp enough to see them.

Some clever observer saw this little comedy played among some English
sparrows, and wrote an account of it in his newspaper; it is too good not
to be true: A male bird brought to his box a large, fine goose feather,
which is a great find for a sparrow and much coveted. After he had deposited
his prize and chattered his gratulations over it, he went away in
quest of his mate.

His next-door neighbor, a female bird, seeing her chance, quickly slipped
in and seized the feather; and here the wit of the bird came out, for
instead of carrying it into her own box she flew with it to a near tree
and hid it in a fork of the branches, then went home, and when her neighbor
returned with his mate was innocently employed about her own affairs.
The proud male, finding his feather gone, came out of his box in a high
state of excitement, and, with wrath in his manner and accusation on his
tongue, rushed into the cote of the female. Not finding his goods and
chattels there as he had expected, he stormed around awhile, abusing
everybody in general and his neighbor in particular, then went away
as if to repair the loss.

As soon as he was out of sight, the shrewd thief went and brought the
feather home and lined her own domicile with it.

I was much amused one summer day in seeing a bluebird feeding her
young one in the shaded street of a large town.

She had captured a cicada or harvest-fly, and, after bruising it awhile
on the ground, flew with it to a tree and placed it in the beak of the
young bird.

It was a large morsel, and the mother seemed to have doubts of her
chick's ability to dispose of it, for she stood near and watched
its efforts with great solicitude.

The young bird struggled valiantly with the cicada, but made no headway in
swallowing it, when the mother took it from him and flew to the sidewalk,
and proceeded to break and bruise it more thoroughly. Then she again
placed it in his beak, and seemed to say, "There, try it now," and sympathized
so thoroughly with his efforts that she repeated many of his motions and
contortions. But the great fly was unyielding, and, indeed, seemed ridiculously
disproportioned to the beak that held it. The young bird fluttered
and fluttered, and screamed, "I'm stuck, I'm stuck!" till the anxious
parent again seized the morsel and carried it to an iron railing, where
she came down upon it for the space of a minute with all the force
and momentum her beak could command.

Then she offered it to her young a third time, but with the same
result as before, except that this time the bird dropped it; but
she reached the ground as soon as the cicada did, and taking it in
her beak flew some distance to a high board fence, where she sat
motionless for some moments.

While pondering the problem how that fly should be broken, the male
bluebird approached her, and said very plainly, and I thought rather
curtly, "Give me that bug," but she quickly resented his interference and
flew farther away, where she sat apparently quite discouraged when I last
saw her.

The bluebird is a home bird, and I am never tired of recurring to him.
His coming or reappearance in the spring marks a new chapter in the
progress of the season; things are never quite the same after one has
heard that note. The past spring the males came about a week in advance of
the females. A fine male lingered about my grounds and orchard all that
time, apparently waiting the arrival of his mate. He called and warbled
every day, as if he felt sure she was within ear-shot and could
be hurried up.

Now he warbled half-angrily or upbraidingly, then coaxingly, then cheerily
and confidently, the next moment in a plaintive, far-away manner. He would
half open his wings, and twinkle them caressingly, as if beckoning
his mate to his heart.

One morning she had come, but was shy and reserved.

The fond male flew to a knothole in an old apple-tree, and coaxed
her to his side.

I heard a fine confidential warble,--the old, old story.

But the female flew to a near tree, and uttered her plaintive,
homesick note. The male went and got some dry grass or bark in his beak,
and flew again to the hole in the old tree, and promised unremitting devotion,
but the other said, "Nay," and flew away in the distance. When he saw her
going, or rather heard her distant note, he dropped his stuff, and cried
out in a tone that said plainly enough, "Wait a minute. One
word, please," and flew swiftly in pursuit. He won her before long,
however, and early in April the pair were established in one of the four
or five boxes I had put up for them, but not until they had changed
their minds several times.

As soon as the first brood had flown, and while they were yet under
their parents' care, they began another nest in one of the other
boxes, the female, as usual, doing all the work, and the male all
the complimenting.

A source of occasional great distress to the mother bird was a white cat
that sometimes followed me about. The cat had never been known to catch a
bird, but she had a way of watching them that was very embarrassing to
the bird. Whenever she appeared, the mother bluebird would set up that
pitiful melodious plaint. One morning the cat was standing by me, when
the bird came with her beak loaded with building material, and
alighted above me to survey the place before going into the box.

When she saw the cat she was greatly disturbed, and in her agitation
could not keep her hold upon all her material. Straw after straw came
eddying down, till not half her original burden remained.

After the cat had gone away the bird's alarm subsided, till
presently, seeing the coast clear, she flew quickly to the box and pitched
in her remaining straws with the greatest precipitation, and, without going
in to arrange them, as was her wont, flew away in evident relief.

In the cavity of an apple-tree but a few yards off, and much nearer the
house than they usually build, a pair of high-holes, or golden-shafted
woodpeckers, took up their abode.

A knothole which led to the decayed interior was enlarged, the live
wood being cut away as clean as a squirrel would have done it.

The inside preparations I could not witness, but day after day, as I passed
near, I heard the bird hammering away, evidently beating down
obstructions and shaping and enlarging the cavity.

The chips were not brought out, but were used rather to floor the
interior.

The woodpeckers are not nest-builders, but rather nest-carvers.

The time seemed very short before the voices of the young were heard in
the heart of the old tree,--at first feebly, but waxing stronger day by day
until they could be heard many rods distant. When I put my hand upon
the trunk of the tree, they would set up an eager, expectant
chattering; but if I climbed up it toward the opening, they soon
detected the unusual sound and would hush quickly, only now and
then uttering a warning note.

Long before they were fully fledged they clambered up to the orifice
to receive their food.

As but one could stand in the opening at a time, there was a good deal of
elbowing and struggling for this position. It was a very desirable one
aside from the advantages it had when food was served; it looked out upon
the great, shining world, into which the young birds seemed never
tired of gazing. The fresh air must have been a consideration also,
for the interior of a high-hole's dwelling is not sweet. When the parent
birds came with food, the young one in the opening did not get it
all, but after he had received a portion, either on his own motion or on
a hint from the old one, he would give place to the one behind him.

Still, one bird evidently outstripped his fellows, and in the race of life
was two or three days in advance of them. His voice was loudest and his
head oftenest at the window. But I noticed that, when he had kept the
position too long, the others evidently made it uncomfortable in his
rear, and, after "fidgeting" about awhile, he would be compelled to
"back down." But retaliation was then easy, and I fear his mates spent
few easy moments at that lookout.

They would close their eyes and slide back into the cavity as if the world
had suddenly lost all its charms for them.

This bird was, of course, the first to leave the nest. For two days
before that event he kept his position in the opening most of the time and
sent forth his strong voice incessantly. The old ones abstained from feeding
him almost entirely, no doubt to encourage his exit. As I stood looking
at him one afternoon and noting his progress, he suddenly reached
a resolution,--seconded, I have no doubt, from the rear,--and
launched forth upon his untried wings.

They served him well, and carried him about fifty yards up-hill the first
heat. The second day after, the next in size and spirit left in the same
manner; then another, till only one remained. The parent birds ceased
their visits to him, and for one day he called and called till our
ears were tired of the sound.

His was the faintest heart of all. Then he had none to encourage him from
behind. He left the nest and clung to the outer bole of the tree, and
yelped and piped for an hour longer; then he committed himself to his
wings and went his way like the rest.

A young farmer in the western part of New York, who has a sharp,
discriminating eye, sends me some interesting notes about a tame high-hole
he once had.

"Did you ever notice," says he, "that the high-hole never eats
anything that he cannot pick up with his tongue?

At least this was the case with a young one I took from the nest and
tamed. He could thrust out his tongue two or three inches, and it was
amusing to see his efforts to eat currants from the hand. He would run
out his tongue and try to stick it to the currant; failing in that, he
would bend his tongue around it like a hook and try to raise it by
a sudden jerk. But he never succeeded, the round fruit would roll
and slip away every time.

He never seemed to think of taking it in his beak. His tongue was in constant
use to find out the nature of everything he saw; a nail-hole in a board
or any similar hole was carefully explored.

If he was held near the face he would soon be attracted by the eye
and thrust his tongue into it.

In this way he gained the respect of a number of half-grown cats that were
around the house.

I wished to make them familiar to each other, so there would be less danger
of their killing him. So I would take them both on my knee, when the bird
would soon notice the kitten's eyes, and, leveling his bill as carefully
as a marksman levels his rifle, he would remain so a minute, when he would
dart his tongue into the cat's eye. This was held by the cats to be very
mysterious: being struck in the eye by something invisible to them.

They soon acquired such a terror of him that they would avoid him
and run away whenever they saw his bill turned in their direction.

He never would swallow a grasshopper even when it was placed in his
throat; he would shake himself until he had thrown it out of his
mouth.

His 'best hold' was ants. He never was surprised at anything, and never
was afraid of anything. He would drive the turkey gobbler and the rooster.
He would advance upon them holding one wing up as high as possible,
as if to strike with it, and shuffle along the ground toward them,
scolding all the while in a harsh voice.

I feared at first that they might kill him, but I soon found that
he was able to take care of himself.

I would turn over stones and dig into ant-hills for him, and he would lick
up the ants so fast that a stream of them seemed going into his
mouth unceasingly.

I kept him till late in the fall, when he disappeared, probably
going south, and I never saw him again." My correspondent also sends me
some interesting observations about the cuckoo. He says a large gooseberry-bush
standing in the border of an old hedge-row, in the midst of open fields,
and not far from his house, was occupied by a pair of cuckoos for two
seasons in succession, and, after an interval of a year, for two
seasons more.

This gave him a good chance to observe them. He says the mother bird
lays a single egg, and sits upon it a number of days before laying the
second, so that he has seen one young bird nearly grown, a second just
hatched, and a whole egg, all in the nest at once.

"So far as I have seen, this is the settled practice,--the young
leaving the nest one at a time to the number of six or eight.

The young have quite the look of the young of the dove in many
respects.

When nearly grown they are covered with long blue pin-feathers as long as
darning-needles, without a bit of plumage on them. They part on the back
and hang down on each side by their own weight.
With its curious feathers and misshapen body, the young bird is anything
but handsome. They never open their mouths when approached, as many
young birds do, but sit perfectly still, hardly moving when touched."
He also notes the unnatural indifference of the mother bird when her nest
and young are approached. She makes no sound, but sits quietly on a
near branch in apparent perfect unconcern.

These observations, together with the fact that the egg of the
cuckoo is occasionally found in the nests of other birds, raise the
inquiry whether our bird is slowly relapsing into the habit of the
European species, which always foists its egg upon other birds; or
whether, on the other hand, it is not mending its manners in this
respect.

It has but little to unlearn or to forget in the one case, but great progress
to make in the other. How far is its rudimentary nest--a mere platform
of coarse twigs and dry stalks of weeds--from the deep, compact,
finely woven and finely modeled nest of the goldfinch or the
kingbird, and what a gulf between its indifference toward its young
and their solicitude!

Its irregular manner of laying also seems better suited to a parasite
like our cowbird, or the European cuckoo, than to a regular
nest-builder.

This observer, like most sharp-eyed persons, sees plenty of interesting
things as he goes about his work.

He one day saw a white swallow, which is of rare occurrence.

He saw a bird, a sparrow he thinks, fly against the side of a horse
and fill his beak with hair from the loosened coat of the animal.

He saw a shrike pursue a chickadee, when the latter escaped by
taking refuge in a small hole in a tree.

One day in early spring he saw two hen-hawks, that were circling
and screaming high in air, approach each other, extend a claw, and,
clasping them together, fall toward the earth, flapping and struggling
as if they were tied together; on nearing the ground they separated
and soared aloft again.

He supposed that it was not a passage of war but of love, and that
the hawks were toying fondly with each other.

He further relates a curious circumstance of finding a hummingbird
in the upper part of a barn with its bill stuck fast in a crack of
one of the large timbers, dead, of course, with wings extended, and
as dry as a chip.

The bird seems to have died, as it had lived, on the wing, and its last
act was indeed a ghastly parody of its living career. Fancy this nimble,
flashing sprite, whose life was passed probing the honeyed depths
of flowers, at last thrusting its bill into a crack in a dry timber
in a hay-loft, and, with spread wings, ending its existence!

When the air is damp and heavy, swallows frequently hawk for insects
about cattle and moving herds in the field. My farmer describes how they
attended him one foggy day, as he was mowing in the meadow with a
mowing-machine. It had been foggy for two days, and the swallows were
very hungry, and the insects stupid and inert.

When the sound of his machine was heard, the swallows appeared and attended
him like a brood of hungry chickens.

He says there was a continued rush of purple wings over the "cut-bar," and
just where it was causing the grass to tremble and fall. Without his
assistance the swallows would doubtless have gone hungry yet another
day.

Of the hen-hawk, he has observed that both male and female take part
in incubation. "I was rather surprised," he says, "on one occasion, to
see how quickly they change places on the nest. The nest was in a tall
beech, and the leaves were not yet fully out. I could see the head and neck
of the hawk over the edge of the nest, when I saw the other hawk coming
down through the air at full speed. I expected he would alight near by,
but instead of that he struck directly upon the nest, his mate
getting out of the way barely in time to avoid being hit; it seemed
almost as if he had knocked her off the nest.

I hardly see how they can make such a rush on the nest without danger to the
eggs."
The kingbird will worry the hawk as a whiffet dog will worry a bear. It is
by his persistence and audacity, not by any injury he is capable of
dealing his great antagonist. The kingbird seldom more than dogs the
hawk, keeping above and between his wings, and making a great ado;
but my correspondent says he once "saw a kingbird riding on a hawk's
back.

The hawk flew as fast as possible, and the kingbird sat upon his shoulders
in triumph until they had passed out of sight,"--tweaking his feathers,
no doubt, and threatening to scalp him the next moment.

That near relative of the kingbird, the great crested flycatcher,
has one well-known peculiarity: he appears never to consider his
nest finished until it contains a cast-off snake-skin.

My alert correspondent one day saw him eagerly catch up an onion skin and
make off with it, either deceived by it or else thinking it a good
substitute for the coveted material.

One day in May, walking in the woods, I came upon the nest of a
whip-poor-will, or rather its eggs, for it builds no nest,--two
elliptical whitish spotted eggs lying upon the dry leaves.

My foot was within a yard of the mother bird before she flew. I wondered
what a sharp eye would detect curious or characteristic in the
ways of the bird, so I came to the place many times and had a look.

It was always a task to separate the bird from her surroundings,
though I stood within a few feet of her, and knew exactly where to look.
One had to bear on with his eye, as it were, and refuse to be
baffled.

The sticks and leaves, and bits of black or dark brown bark, were
all exactly copied in the bird's plumage.

And then she did sit so close, and simulate so well a shapeless,
decaying piece of wood or bark!

Twice I brought a companion, and, guiding his eye to the spot,
noted how difficult it was for him to make out there, in full view upon
the dry leaves, any semblance to a bird. When the bird returned after being
disturbed, she would alight within a few inches of her eggs, and
then, after a moment's pause, hobble awkwardly upon them.

After the young had appeared, all the wit of the bird came into play. I was
on hand the next day, I think. The mother bird sprang up when I was
within a pace of her, and in doing so fanned the leaves with her wings
till they sprang up, too; as the leaves started the young started, and,
being of the same color, to tell which was the leaf and which the bird
was a trying task to any eye. I came the next day, when the same tactics
were repeated. Once a leaf fell upon one of the young birds and nearly hid
it. The young are covered with a reddish down, like a young partridge,
and soon follow their mother about.

When disturbed, they gave but one leap, then settled down, perfectly
motionless and stupid, with eyes closed. The parent bird, on these
occasions, made frantic efforts to decoy me away from her young. She would
fly a few paces and fall upon her breast, and a spasm, like that of death,
would run through her tremulous outstretched wings and prostrate body.

I looked at him inquiringly.

"She's six or eight years older than he is, you know," he explained; "but
you wouldn't think it now."

I wondered what he had in his mind.

"Times are changing," he proceeded. "Now, when I was a lad, if a lady had
liked me as well as Evadne likes that boy, I'd have taken advantage of her
preference."

"Not if the lady had been of her stamp," I said drily.

"Well, true for you," he acknowledged. "But it isn't the lady only in this
case. It's that young sybarite himself. He's as particular as she is. He
said the other day at mess--it was a guest night, and there was a big
dinner on, and somebody proposed 'Wine and Women' for a toast, but he
wouldn't drink it: 'Oh, spare me,' he said, in that slow way he has,
something like his father's; 'Wine and women, as you take them, are things
as coarse in the way of pleasure as pork and porter are for food.' We
asked him then to give us his own ideas of pleasure; but he said he didn't
think anybody there was educated up to them, even sufficiently to
understand them!--and he wasn't joking altogether, either," Colonel
Colquhoun concluded.

At that same moment Evadne opened her eyes wide, and looked at us a second
before she spoke, but showed no other sign of surprise.

"I am afraid I have been asleep," she said, rising deliberately, and
shaking hands with me across the prostrate Diavolo. "Do sit down."

She sank back into her own chair as she spoke, and fanned a fly from
Diavolo's face. "I never knew anyone sleep so soundly," she said, looking
down at him lovingly. "He rides out here nearly every day when he is not
on duty, simply for his siesta. Angelica is jealous, I believe, because he
will not go to her. He says there is no repose about Angelica, and that it
is only here with me that he finds the dreamful ease he loves."

There was a sound of talking outside just then, and a few minutes later
Angelica herself came in with her father.

"Oh, you _darling!_ you _are_ a pretty boy!" she exclaimed, when
she saw Diavolo, and then she went down on her knees beside him, put her
arms round his neck, pulled him up, and hugged him roughly, an attention
which he immediately resented. "Ah, I thought it was you!" he said,
opening his eyes. "Good-bye, sweet sleep, good-bye!" Then he sat up, and,
turning his back to Evadne, coolly rested himself against her knee. "I
suppose we can have tea now," he said. "There's always something to look
forward to. Papa, dear, touch the bell, to save the Colonel the trouble."

Colonel Colquhoun laughed, and rang it himself good-naturedly.

"Diavolo!" Evadne exclaimed, pushing him away, "I am not going to nurse a
great boy like you."

"Well, Angelica must, then," he said, changing his position so as to lean
against his sister. Angelica laid her hand on his head, and her face
softened. "Evadne _used_ to like to nurse me," he complained. "She's
not nearly so nice since she married. I say, Angelica, do you remember the
wedding breakfast, when we agreed to drink as much champagne as the
bridegroom? I swore I would never get drunk again, and I never have."

"Faith," said Colonel Colquhoun, "there are some who'd like to be able to
say the same thing."

Some dogs had followed Angelica in, and had now to be turned out, because
Evadne would not have dogs indoors. She said she liked a good dog's
character, but could not bear the smell of him.

"And how are the children?" Mr. Hamilton-Wells asked affably, when this
diversion was over.

"There are no children!" Evadne exclaimed in surprise.

"Are there not, indeed. Now, that is singular," he observed. Then he
looked at me as if he were about to say something interesting, but I
hastily interposed. I was afraid he was going to speculate about the
natural history of the phenomenon which had just struck him as being
singular. He knew perfectly well that Evadne had no children, but he was
subject, or affected to be subject, to moments of obliviousness, in which
he was wont to ask embarrassing questions.

"The weather is quite tropical," was the original observation I made. Mr.
Hamilton-Wells felt if the parting of his smooth, straight hair was
exactly in the middle, patted it on either side, then shook back imaginary
ruffles from his long white hands, and interlaced his jewelled fingers on
his lap.

"You were never in the tropics, I think you told me?" he said to Evadne,
with exaggerated preciseness. "Ah! now, I have been, off and on, several
times. The heat is very trying. I knew a lady, the wife of a Colonial
Governor, who used to be so overcome by it that she was obliged to undo
all her things, let them slip to the ground, and step out of them, leaving
them looking like a great cheese. She told me so herself, I assure you,
and she was an exceedingly stout person."

The Heavenly Twins went into convulsions suddenly.

"Is that tea at last?" Evadne asked.

Colonel Colquhoun and I both gladly moved to make room for the servants
who were bringing it in, and the conversation was not resumed until they
had withdrawn. Then Angelica began: "I came to make a last appeal to you,
Evadne. I want to tell you about a poor girl--"

"Oh, don't break this lovely summer silence with tales of woe!" Evadne
exclaimed, interrupting her. "I cannot do anything. Don't ask me. You
harrow my feelings to no purpose. I will not listen. It is not right that
I should be forced to know."

"Well, I think you are making a mistake, Evadne," Angelica replied. "Don't
you think so?" looking at me. "She is sacrificing herself to save herself.
She imagines she can secure her own peace of mind by refusing to know that
there is a weary world of suffering close at hand which she should be
helping to relieve. Suffering for others strengthens our own powers of
endurance; we lose them if we don't exercise them--and that is the way you
are sacrificing yourself to save yourself, Evadne. When some big trouble
of your own, one of those which cannot be denied, comes upon you, it will
crush you. You will have lost the moral muscle you should be exercising
now to keep it in good working order and develop it well for your own use
when you require it. It would not be worse for you to take a stimulant or
a sedative to wind yourself up to an artificially pleasurable state when
at any time you are not naturally cheerful--and that is what a too great
love of peace occasionally ends in."

Evadne waved her ostrich feather fan backward and forward slowly, and
looked out of the window. She would not even listen to this friendly
counsel, and I felt sure she was making a mistake.

I only saw her once again that summer under Lady Adeline's salutary
influence. It was a few days later, and Evadne was in an expansive mood.
She had been spending the day with Lady Adeline, and the two had been for
a drive together, and had overtaken me on the road and picked me up on
their way back to Hamilton House. I had been for a solitary ramble, and
was then returning to work, but Evadne said I must go back to tea with
them: "For your own sake, because it is a shame to waste a summer day in
work--a glorious summer day so evidently sent for our enjoyment."

"The greatest pleasure in life is to be in perfect condition for the work
one loves," I answered; but I was settling myself comfortably in the
carriage as I spoke, such is the consistency of man. But indeed it was not
very difficult to persuade me to idle that afternoon. I had been inclining
that way for weeks, under the influence of the intoxicating heat doubtless;
and presently, when I found myself comfortably seated on the wide stone
terrace outside the great drawing room at Hamilton House, under a shady
awning, looking down upon lawns vividly green and lovely gardens all aglow
with colour and alive with perfume, which is the soul of the flowers, I
yielded sensuous service to the hour, and gave myself up to the enjoyment
of it unreservedly.

Mr. Hamilton-Wells was there, making tea in the precisest manner, and
looking more puritanical than ever. How to reconcile his coldly formal
exterior with the interior from which emanated his choice of subjects in
conversation is a matter which I have not yet had time to study, although
I am convinced that the solution of the problem would prove to be of great
scientific value and importance. I was not in the habit of thinking of him
as either a man or a woman myself, however, but as a specimen of humanity
broadly, and domestically as a husband whom I always suspected of being a
sharp sword of the law, although I had never obtained the slightest
evidence of the fact.

Lady Adeline was lolling in a low cane chair, fatigued by her drive, and
longing aloud for tea; and Evadne was flitting about with her hat in her
hand, laughing and talking more than any of us. She was wearing an art
gown, very becoming to her, and suitable also for such sultry weather, as
Mr. Hamilton-Wells remarked.

"I suppose you are a strong supporter of the æsthetic dress movement," he
said, doubtless alluding to the graceful freedom of her delicate primrose
draperies.

"Not at all," she answered, seating herself on the arm of a chair near
Lady Adeline, and opening her fan gently as she spoke.

I was inspired to ask for more tea just then. Mr. Hamilton-Wells poured it
out and handed it to me. "You take milk," he informed me, "but no sugar."
Then he folded his hands and recommenced. "To return to the original point
of departure," he began, "which was modern dress, if I remember
rightly"--he smiled round upon us all, knowing quite well that he
remembered rightly--"that brings us by an obvious route to another
question of the day; I mean the position of women. How do you regard their
position at this latter end of the nineteenth century, Evadne?"

"I do not regard it at all, if I can help it," she answered incisively.

Mr. Hamilton-Wells dropped his outspread hands upon his knees.

"If I remember rightly," he said, "you take no interest in politics
either. That is quite a phenomenon at this latter end of the nineteenth
century."

"I have my duties--the duties of my social position, you know," she
answered, "and my own little pursuits as well, neither of which I can
neglect for the affairs of the world."

"But are they enough for you?" Lady Adeline ventured.

Evadne glanced up to see what she meant, and then smiled. "The wisdom of
ages is brought to the training of each little girl," she said; "and to
fit her for our position, she is taught that a woman's one object in life
is to be agreeable."

"You mean that a woman of decided opinions is not an agreeable person?"
Lady Adeline asked.

"Decided opinions must always be offensive to those who don't hold them,"
Evadne rejoined.

"A woman must know that the future welfare of her own sex, and the
progress of the world at large, depends upon the action of women now, and
the success attending it," Angelica observed comprehensively.

"Yes, but she knows also that her own comfort and convenience depend
entirely on her neutrality," Evadne answered. "It is not high-minded to be
neutral, I know, when it is put in that way; but a woman who is so becomes
exactly what the average man, taken at his word, would have her be, and he
is, we are assured, the proper person to legislate."

She looked at us all defiantly as she spoke, and furled her fan; and just
at that moment Colonel Colquhoun joined us. He had come to fetch her, and
his entrance gave a new turn to the conversation.

"It has been oppressively hot all day," he observed.

"Yes," Lady Adeline answered, "and I do so long for the mountains in
weather like this."

"Oh, do you?" said Evadne. "Are you subject to the magnet of the
mountains? I am not. I do not want to feel the nothingness of man; I like
to believe in his greatness, in his infinite possibilities. I like to
think of life as a level plain over which we can gallop to some goal--I
don't know what, but something desirable; and the actual landscape pleases
me best so. The great tumbled mountains make me melancholy, they are
always foreboding something untoward, even at the best of times; but the
open spaces, windswept and evident--I love them. I am at home on them. I
can breathe there--I am free."

This was the natural woman at last, in her aspirations unconsciously
showing herself superior to the artificial creature she was trying to be.

"I hate the melancholy mountains," the ever-ready Angelica burst forth. "I
loathe the inconstant sea. The breezy plain for a gallop! It is there that
one feels free!"

Colonel Colquhoun looked at Evadne meditatively, and slowly twisted each
end of his heavy blond moustache. "I haven't seen you riding for some time
now," he said, "and it's a pity, for you've a fine seat on a horse."

I was obliged to make up that night for the time lost in the afternoon,
and the dawn had broken when at last I put my work away. I opened the
study windows wider to salute it. A lark was singing somewhere out of
sight--

  Die Lerche, die im augen nicht,
  Doch immer in den ohren ist--

and the ripples of undecipherable sound struck some equally inarticulate
chord of sense, and fell full-fraught with association. The breeze,
murmurous amongst the branches, set the leaves rustling like silk attire.
Did I imagine it, or was there really a faint sweet perfume of yellow
gorse in the air? A thrush on a bough below began to flute softly, trying
its tones before it burst forth, giving full voice to its enthusiasm in
one clear call, eloquent of life and love and longing, and all expressed
in just three notes--crotchet, quaver, crotchet and rest--which shortly
shaped themselves to a word in my heart, a word of just three syllables,
the accent being on the penultimate--"E-vad-ne! E-vad-ne!"

Good Heavens!

I roused myself. Not a proper state of mind certainly for a man of my
years and pursuits. Why, how old was I? Thirty-five--not so old in one
way, yet ten years older at least than--stop--sickly sentimentality. "Life
is real, life is earnest," and there must be no dreams of scented gorse,
of posing in daffodil draperies, for me. Must take a holiday and
rest--take my "agreeable ugliness" off (I was amused when the Heavenly
Twins told me their mother talked of my "agreeable ugliness"; but, now,
did I like it? No. I was cynical when I said it) take my "agreeable
ugliness" off to the mountains--"Turn thine eyes unto the mountains"--the
magnet of the mountains. Yes, I felt it. I delighted to do so. I was not
morbid. To the mountains! to the cold which stays corruption, the snows
which are pure, and the eternal silence! By ten o'clock that night I was
well on my way.


CHAPTER XI


I went abroad that year for my holiday, but spent the last week of it in
London on my way home. All the vapours of sentimentality had disappeared
by that time. My nerves had been braced in the Alps, my mind had been
calmed and refreshed by the warm blue Mediterranean, my sense of
comparison emphasized in Egypt, where I perceived anew the law of
mutability, the inevitable law, by the decree of which the human race is
eternal, while we, its constituent atoms, have but a moment of intensity
to blaze and burn out. Perishable life and permanent matter are we, with a
limit that may be prolonged in idea by such circumstances as we can dwell
on with delight, one love-lit day being longer in the record than whole
monotonous years. It is good to live and love, but if we possess the
burden of life unrelieved by the blessing of love, or the hope of it,
well--why despair? Man is matter animated by a series of emotions, the
majority of which are pleasurable. Disappointment ends like success, and
the futile dust of nations offers itself in evidence of the vanity of all
attributes except wisdom, the wisdom that teaches us to accept the
inevitable silently, and endure our moment with equally undemonstrative
acquiescence, whether it comes full fraught with the luxury of living, or
only brings us that which causes us to contemplate of necessity, and
without shrinking, the crowning dignity of death.

I had come back ready for work, and could have cheerfully dispensed with
that week's delay in London; but I had promised it to an old friend, in
failing health, whom I would not disappoint.

The people at Morne, the Kilroys, the Hamilton-Wellses, the Colquhouns,
all my circle of intimate friends, had fallen into the background of my
recollection during my tour abroad; but, now again, when I found myself so
near them, the old habitual interests began to be dominant. I had sent
notes to apologize for not wishing them good-bye before my sudden
departure, but I had not written to any of them or heard from them during
my absence, and did not know where they might all be at the moment; and I
was just wondering one night as I walked toward Piccadilly from the
direction of the Strand--I was just wondering if they were all as I had
left them, if the civil war, as Angelica called it, was being waged as
actively as ever between herself and Evadne upon the all-important
point--and that made me think of Evadne herself. I had banished her name
from my mind for weeks, but now some inexplicable trick of the brain
suddenly set her before me as I oftenest saw her, sitting at work in the
wide west window overlooking the road, and glancing up brightly at the
sound of my horse's hoofs or carriage wheels as I rode or drove past, to
salute me. A lady might wait and watch so at accustomed hours for her
lover; but he would stop, and she would open the window, and lean out with
a flower in her hand for him, and perhaps she would kiss it before she
tossed it to him, and he would catch it and go on his way rejoicing--a
pretty poetical dream and easy of fulfilment, if only one could find the
lady, suitably circumstanced.

I had arrived at Piccadilly Circus by this time, at the turn into Regent
Street where the omnibuses stop, and was delayed for a moment or two by
the casual crowd of loiterers and people struggling for places, and by
those who were alighting from the various vehicles. Not being in any hurry
myself, it amused me to observe the turmoil, the play of human emotion
which appeared distinctly on the faces of those who approached me and were
lost to sight again as soon as seen in the eddy and whirl of the crowd.
There was temper here, and tenderness there; this person was steadily bent
on business, that on pleasure, and one fussy little man escorting his
family somewhere was making the former of the latter. There were two young
lovers alone with their love so far as any outward consciousness of the
crowd was concerned; and there was a young wife silent and sad beside a
neglectful elderly husband. It was the 'buses from the west end I was
watching. One had just moved off toward the Strand, and another pulled up
in its place, and the people began to alight--a fat man first in a frenzy
of haste, a sallow priest whose soul seemed to sicken at the sight of the
seething mass of humanity amongst which he found himself, for he hesitated
perceptibly on the step, like a child in a bathing machine who shrinks
from the water, before he descended and was engulfed in the crowd. A
musician with his instrument in a case, two fat women talking to each
other, a little Cockney work-girl, and her young man, and then--a lady.
There could be no mistake about her social status. The conductor, standing
by the step, recognized it at once, and held out his arm to assist her.
The gaslight flared full upon her face, the expression of which was
somewhat set. She wore no veil, and if she did not court observation, she
certainly did not shun it. She was quietly but richly dressed, and had one
seen her there on foot in the morning, one would have surmised that she
was out shopping, and looked for the carriage which would probably have
been following her; but a lady, striking in appearance and of
distinguished bearing, alighting composedly from an omnibus at Piccadilly
Circus between nine and ten at night, and calmly taking her way alone up
Regent Street was a sight which would have struck one as being anomalous
even if she had been a stranger. But this lady was no stranger to me. I
should have recognized her figure and carriage had her countenance been
concealed. I had turned hot and cold at the first foreshadowing of her
presence, and would fain have found myself mistaken, but there was no
possibility of a doubt. She passed me without haste, and so close that I
could have laid my hand upon her shoulder. But I let her go in sheer
astonishment. What, in the name of all that is inexplicable, was Evadne
doing there alone at that time of night? Such a proceeding was hardly
decent, whatever her excuse, and it was certainly not safe. This last
reflection aroused me, and I started instantly to follow her, intending to
overtake her, and impose my escort upon her. She was out of sight, because
she had turned the corner, but she could not have gone far, and I hurried
headlong after her, nearly upsetting a man who met me face to face as I
doubled into Regent Street. It was Colonel Colquhoun himself, in a joyful
mood evidently, and for once I could have blessed his blinding potations.
He recognized me, but had apparently passed Evadne.

"Ah, me boy, you here!" he exclaimed, with an assumption of facetious
_bonhomie_ particularly distasteful to me. "All the world lives in
London, I think! It's where you'll always come across anyone you want. Sly
dog! Following a lady, I'll be bound! By Jove! I wouldn't have thought it
of you, Galbraith! But you'll not find anything choice in Regent Street.
Come with me, and I'll introduce you--"

"Excuse me," I interrupted, and hurried away from the brute. How had he
missed Evadne? Perhaps he was looking the other way. But what a position
for her to be in. Supposing he had recognized her, my being so close would
have made it none the better for her. And could I be sure that he had not
seen her? I did not think he was the kind, of man, with all his faults, to
lay a trap even for an enemy whom he suspected; but, still, one never
knows.

Evadne was far ahead by this time, but the places of amusement were still
open, and therefore there were few people in Regent Street. It is not
particularly well lighted, but I was soon near enough to make her out by
her graceful dignified carriage, which contrasted markedly with that of
every other woman and girl I saw. In any other place her bearing would
have struck me as that of a person accustomed to consideration, even if I
had not known her; but here, judging by the confident way she held her
head up, I should have been inclined to set her down either as a most
abandoned person, or as one who was quite unconscious of anything peculiar
in her present proceedings. In another respect, too, she was very unlike
the women and girls who were loitering about the Street, peering up
anxiously into the face of every man they met. Evadne seemed to see no
one, and passed on her way, superbly indifferent to any attention she
might be attracting. The distance between us had lessened considerably,
and I could now have overtaken her easily, but I hesitated. I could not
decide whether it would be better to join her, or merely to keep her in
sight for her own safety. I was inclined to blame her severely for her
recklessness. She had already passed her husband, and might meet half the
depôt, or be recognized by Heaven knows who, before she got to the top of
the street; and, as it was, she was attracting considerable attention.
Scarcely a man met her who did not turn when he had passed, and look after
her; and anyone of these might be an acquaintance. My impulse had been to
insist upon her getting into a hansom, and allowing me to see her safe
home; but it had occurred to me, upon reflection, that I might compromise
her more fatally by being seen with her under such circumstances than
could happen if she went alone.

While I hesitated, a tall thin man with a gray beard, whom I thought I
recognized from photographs seen in shop windows, met her, stared hard as
he passed, stood a minute looking after her and then turned and followed
her. If he were the man I took him to be, he would probably know her, and
my first impression was that he did so, and had recognised her, and been,
like myself, too astonished to speak. If so, he quickly recovered himself,
and, as he evidently intended to address her now, I was half inclined to
resign my responsibility to him. Then I thought that if I joined her also
nothing could be said. Two men of known repute may escort a lady anywhere
and at any time. I quickened my steps, but purposely let him speak first.

Coming up with her from behind, he began in a tone which was more
caressing than respectful. "It is a fine night," he said.

Evadne started visibly, looked at him, and shrank two steps away; but she
answered, in a voice which I could hardly recognise as hers, it was so
high and strident; "I should call it a chilly night," she said.

"Well, yes, perhaps," he answered, "for the time of the year. Are you
going for a walk?"

"I--I don't know," she replied, looking doubtfully on ahead.

She was walking at a pretty rapid rate as it was, and her elderly
interlocutor had some difficulty in keeping up with her.

"Perhaps if we turned down one of these side streets to the left, it would
be quieter, and we could talk," he suggested.

"I don't think I want either to be quiet or to talk," she said, suddenly
recovering her natural voice and tone.

"Well, what do you want, then?" he asked.

She looked up at him, and slackened her speed. "Perhaps, since you are so
good as to trouble yourself about me at all," she said, "I may venture to
ask if you will kindly tell me where in London I am?"

His manner instantly changed. "You are in Regent Street," he answered.

"And that lighted place behind us, where the crowd is--what is that?"

"You must mean Piccadilly Circus."

"And if I walk on what shall I come to?"

"Oxford Street. You don't seem to know London. Don't you live here?"

"I do not live in London."

"You have lost your way, perhaps; can I direct you anywhere?"

"No, thank you," she answered. "I can get into a hansom, you know, when I
am tired of this."

"If I might venture to advise, I should say do so at once," he rejoined,
slightly raising his hat as he spoke, and then he slipped behind her, and
furtively hurried across the street, a considerably perplexed man, I
fancied, and, judging by the way he peered to right and left as he went,
one who was suffering from some sudden dislike to being recognised.

Evadne paid as little heed to his departure as she had done to his
approach. A few steps farther brought her to a stand of hansom cabs. She
hesitated a moment, and then got into one. I took the next, and directed
the driver to follow her, being determined either to see her back to her
friends, or to interfere if I found that she meant to continue her ramble.
Her driver struck into Piccadilly at the next turn, and then drove
steadily west for about half an hour. By that time we had come to a row of
handsome houses, at one of which he stopped, and my man stopped also at an
intelligent distance behind, but Evadne never looked back. She got out and
ascended the steps with the leisurely air peculiar to her. The door was
opened as soon as she rang, and she entered. A moment later a footman came
out on to the pavement and paid the driver, with whom he exchanged a
remark or two. As he returned, the light from the hall streamed out upon
him, and I saw, with a sense of relief which made me realise what the
previous tension had been, that he wore the Hamilton-Wells livery, and
then I recognised the Hamilton-Wells' town house. The driver of the now
empty hansom turned his horse, and walked him slowly back in the direction
from which he had come. The incident was over; but what did it all mean?
The whole thing seemed so purposeless. What had taken her out at all? Was
it some jealous freak? Women have confessed to me that they watch their
husbands habitually. One said she did it for love of excitement: there was
always a risk of being caught, and nothing else ever amused her half so
much. Another declared she did it because she could not afford to employ a
private detective, and she wanted to have evidence always ready in case it
should suit her to part from her husband at any time. Another said she
loved her husband, and it hurt her less to know than to suspect. But I
could not really believe that Evadne would do such a thing for any reason
whatever. She was fearlessly upright and honest about her actions; and her
self-respect would have restrained her if ever an isolated impulse had
impelled her to such a proceeding. But still--

"Will you wait until the lady returns, sir?" the driver asked at last,
peeping down upon me through the trap in the roof. If he had not spoken I
might have sat there half the night, puzzling out the problem. Now,
however, that he had roused me, I determined to leave it for the present,
I remembered my duty to the friend with whom I was staying, and hurried
back, resolving to go to Evadne herself next day, and ask her point blank
to explain. I believed she would do so, for in all that concerned her own
pursuits--the doings of the day--I had always found her almost curiously
frank. After this wise determination, I ought to have been philosopher
enough to sleep upon the matter, but her ladyship's escapade cost me my
night's rest, and took me to her early next morning, in an angry and
irritable mood.

I sent up my card, and Evadne received me at once in Lady Adeline's
boudoir,

"This is an unexpected pleasure," she said. "How did you know I was in
town?"

"I saw you in Regent Street last night," I answered bluntly. "What were
you doing there?"

"What were you doing there yourself?" she said.

The question took me aback completely, and the more so as it was asked
with an unmistakable flash of merriment.

"Answer me my question first," I said. "You could have no business out
alone in London at that time of night, laying yourself open to insult."

"I don't recognise your right to question me at all," she answered,
unabashed.

"I have the right of any gentleman who does his duty when he sees a lady
making--"

"A fool of herself? Thanks," she said, laughing. "The privilege of
protecting a woman, of saving her even in spite of herself from the
effects of her own indiscretion, is one of which a man seldom avails
himself, and I did not understand you at first. Excuse me. But how do you
know I could have no business out at that time of night? Do you imagine
that you know all my duties in life?"

I was bewildered by her confidence--by her levity, I may say, but I
persisted.

"I cannot believe that you had any business or duty which necessitated
your being in a disreputable part of London alone late at night," I said.
"But I hope you will allow me the right of an intimate friend to warn you
if you run risks--in your ignorance."

"Or to reprove me if I do so with my eyes open?" she suggested.

"To ask for an explanation, at all events, if I do not understand what
your motive could be."

"You are very kind," she said. "You want me to excuse myself if I can,
otherwise you will be forced to suspect something unjustifiable."

"That is the literal truth," I answered.

She laughed. "But you have not answered _my_ question," she said.
"What were you doing there yourself?"

"I had been dining at the Charing Cross Hotel with a friend who had just
returned from India," I told her, "and I was walking back to the house of
the friend with whom I am staying. He lives in a street off Piccadilly."

"But what were you doing in Regent Street?"

"Following you."

She laughed again. "Did you see that old man speak to me?" she asked.

"Yes."

"Horrid old creature, is he not? He gave me such a start! Did you
recognise him?"

"Yes."

"I did not at first, but when I did, I thought I would make him useful."
She meditated for a little, then she said; "It did me good."

"What?" I asked.

"That start," she replied. "It quite roused me. But, now, tell me. I
should never have supposed that you had no business anywhere at any time;
why are you not equally charitable?"

I was silent.

"Tell me what you think took me there?"

"An unholy curiosity," I blurted out.

"That is an unholy inspiration which has only just occurred to you, and
you cannot entertain the suspicion for a moment," she said.

This was true.

"But, after all," she pursued, "what business have you to take me to task
like this? It is not a professional matter."

"I don't know that," I answered. This was another inspiration, and it
disconcerted her, for she changed countenance.

"You have a nice opinion of me!" she exclaimed.

"I have the highest opinion of you," I answered, "and nobody knows that
better than yourself. But what am I to think when I find you acting
without any discretion whatever?"

"Think that I am at the mercy of every wayward impulse."

"But I know that you are not," I replied; "and I am unhappy about you.
Will you trust me? Will you explain? Will you let me help you if I can? I
believe there is some trouble at the bottom of this business. Do tell me
all about it?"

"Well, I _will_ explain," she said, still laughing. "I was driving
past, and seeing you there, I thought I would horrify you, so I stopped
the carriage--"

"You got out of an omnibus!" I exclaimed.

"Well, that was my carriage for the time being," she answered, in no way
disconcerted. "You do not expect me to own that I was in an omnibus, do
you?"

"I wish you would be serious for a moment," I remonstrated. "I wish you
would tell me the truth."

"As I always do tell the truth if I tell anything, I think we had better
let the subject drop," she said, with a sigh, as if she were tired of it.

"You mean you cannot tell me?"

"That is what I mean."

I reflected for a moment. "Does Lady Adeline know that you were out last
night?" I asked.

"No," she replied. "She was out herself and I returned before she did.

"Then you have not told her either?"

She shook her head.

"I would really rather you confided in her than in me, if you can."

"Thank you," she answered drily.

"Can you?" I persisted.

"No, I cannot," was the positive rejoinder.

I rose to go. "Forgive my officiousness," I said. "I ventured to hope you
would make use of me, but I am afraid I have been forcing my services upon
you too persistently."

She rose impulsively, and held out both hands to me. "I wish I could thank
you," she said, looking up at me frankly and affectionately. "I wish I
could tell you how much I appreciate your goodness to me, and all your
disinterestedness. I wish I deserved it!" She clasped my hands warmly as
she spoke, then dropped them; and instantly I became conscious of an
indescribable sense of relief; and prepared to depart at once; but she
stopped me again with a word as I opened the door.

"Dr. Galbraith," she began, with another flash of merriment, "tell me, you
_were_ horrified, now, were you not?"

I jammed my hat on my head and left her. I did not mean to slam the door,
but her levity had annoyed me. I fancied her laughing as I descended the
stairs, and wondered at her mood, and yet I was re-assured by it. She
would not have been so merry if there had been anything really wrong, and
it was just possible that the half explanation she had given me and
withdrawn was the true one. She might have been in an omnibus for once for
some quite legitimate reason, and while it waited at Piccadilly Circus she
might have seen me as she had described, and got out in a moment of
mischief to astonish me. If that were her object, she had certainly
succeeded, and it seemed to me more likely than that she should just have
gone and returned for the sake of doing an unusual thing, which was the
only other explanation that occurred to me.

I saw Lady Adeline before I left the house, and found that Colonel
Colquhoun was not staying with them, nor did she seem to know that he had
been in town.


CHAPTER XII.


A cruel misfortune robbed me of a near relation at this time, and added
the rank of baronet, with a considerable increase of fortune, to my other
responsibilities. The increase of fortune was welcome in one way, as it
enabled me to enlarge a small private hospital which I had established on
my Fountain Towers estate, for the benefit of poor patients. Attending to
these, and to the buildings which were at once put in progress, was the
one absorbing interest of my life at that time.

During the next three months I only called once on Evadne, and that was a
mere formal visit which I felt in duty bound to pay her. I did not drive
past the house, either, oftener than I could help, but when I was obliged
to go that way I saw her, sitting sewing in her accustomed place, and she
would smile and bow to me--brightly at first, but after a time with a
wistful, weary expression, or I fancied so. It was of necessity a hurried
glimpse that I had, although my horse would slacken his speed of his own
accord as we approached the holly hedge that bounded her bower; but I
began to be uneasily aware of a change in her appearance. I might be
mistaken, but I certainly thought her eyes looked unnaturally large, as if
her cheeks had fallen away, and the little patient face was paler. In the
early summer, when she was well, she had been wont to flush upon the least
occasion, but now her colour did not vary, and I suspected that she was
again shutting herself up too much. Mrs. Orton Beg was at Fraylingay,
Diavolo was keeping his grandfather company at Morne, the Kilroys were in
town, the Hamilton-Wellses had gone to Egypt, and Colonel Colquhoun had
taken two months' leave and gone abroad also, so that she had no one near
her for whom she had any special regard. Colonel Colquhoun had called on
me before he left, and told me he was sure Evadne would hope to see a good
deal of me during his absence, and he wished I would look after
her--professionally, I inferred, and of course I was always prepared to do
so. But, so far, she had not required my services, happily, and for the
rest--well, my time was fully occupied, and I found it did not suit me to
go to As-You-Like-It. When I noticed the change in her appearance,
however, I began to think I would look in some day, just to see how she
really was, but before I could carry out the half formed intention she
came to me. It was during my consulting hours, and I was sitting at my
writing table, seeing my patients in rotation, when her name was
announced. She sauntered in in her usual leisurely way, shook hands with
me, and then subsided into the easy-chair on my right, which was placed
facing the window for my patients to occupy.

"I have a cold," she said, "and a pain under my right clavicle, and the
posterior lobe of my brain--oh, dear, I have forgotten it all!" she broke
off, laughing. "How _shall_ I make you understand?"

"You are in excellent spirits," I observed, "if you are not in very good
health."

"No, believe me," she answered. "The pleasure of seeing you again
enlivened me for a moment; but I am really rather down."

I had been considering her attentively from a professional point of view
while she was speaking, and saw that this was true. The brightness which
animated her when she entered faded immediately, and then I saw that her
face was thin and pale and anxious in expression. Her eyes wandered
somewhat restlessly; her attitude betokened weakness. She had a little
worrying cough, and her pulse was unequal.

"What have you been doing with yourself lately?" I asked, turning to my
writing table and taking up a pen, when I had ascertained this last fact.

"Dreaming," she said.

The answer struck me. "Dreaming," I repeated to myself, and then aloud to
her, while I affected to write. "Dreaming?" I said. "What about, for
example?"

"Oh! the Arabian Nights, the whole thousand and one of them, would not be
long enough to tell you," she replied. "I think my dreams have lasted
longer already."

"Are you speaking of day-dreams?" I asked.

"Yes."

"You imagine things as you sit at work, perhaps!"

"Yes." She spoke languidly, and evidently attached no special significance
either to my questions or her own answers, which was what I wished. "Yes,
that is my best time. While I work, I live in a world of my own creating;
in a beautiful happy dream--at least it was so once," she added, with a
sigh.

"I have heard you say you did not care to read fiction. You prefer to make
your own stories, is that the reason?"

"I suppose so," she said; "but I never thought of it before."

"And you never write these imaginings?"

"Oh, no! That would be impossible. It is in the tones of voices as I hear
them; in the expression of faces as I see them; in the subtle,
indescribable perception of the significance of events, and their intimate
relation to each other and influence on the lives of my dream friends that
the whole charm lies. Such impressions are too delicate for reproduction,
even if I had the mind to try. Describing them would be as coarse a
proceeding as eating a flower after inhaling its perfume."

"Did I understand you to say that this is the habit of years? Has your
inner life been composed of dreams ever since you were a child?"

"No," she replied, "I don't think as a child I was at all imaginative. I
liked to learn, and when I was not learning I lived an active, outdoor
life."

"Ah! Then you have acquired the habit since you grew up?"

"Yes. It came on by degrees. I used to think of how things might be
different; that was the way it began. I tried to work out schemes of life
in my head, as I would do a game of chess; not schemes of life for myself,
you know, but such as should save other people from being very miserable.
I wanted to do some good in the world,"--she paused here to choose her
words--"and that kind of thought naturally resolves itself into action,
but before the impulse to act came upon me I had made it impossible for
myself to do anything, so that when it came I was obliged to resist it,
and then, instead of reading and reflecting, I took to sewing for a
sedative, and turned the trick of thinking how things might be different
into another channel."

She was unconsciously telling me the history of her married life, showing
me a lonely woman gradually losing her mental health for want of active
occupation and a wholesome share of the work of the world to take her out
of herself. To a certain extent, then, I had been right in my judgment of
her character. Her disposition was practical, not contemplative; but she
had been forced into the latter attitude, and the consequence was,
perhaps--well, it might be a diseased state of the mind; but that I had
yet to ascertain.

"And are you happy in your dreams?" I inquired.

"I was," she said; "but my dreams are not what they used to be."

"How?" I asked.

"At first they were pleasant," she answered. "When I sat alone at work, it
was my happiest time. I was master of my dreams then, and let none but
pleasant shapes present themselves. But by degrees--I don't know how--I
began to be intoxicated. My imagination ran away with me. Instead of
indulging in a daydream now and then, when I liked, all my life became
absorbed in delicious imaginings, whether I would or not. Working,
walking, driving; in church; anywhere and at any time, when I could be
alone a moment, I lived in my world apart. If people spoke to me, I awoke
and answered them; but real life was a dull thing to offer, and the
daylight very dim, compared with the movement and brightness of the land I
lived in--while I was master of my dreams."

"Then you did not remain master of them always?"

"No. By degrees they mastered me; and now I am their puppet, and they are
demons that torment me. When I awake in the morning, I wonder what the
haunting thought for the day will be; and before I have finished dressing
it is upon me as a rule. At first it was not incessant, but now the
trouble in my head is awful."

I thought so! But she had said enough for the present. The confession was
ingenuously made, and evidently without intention. I merely asked a few
more questions about her general health, and then sent her home to nurse
her cold, promising to call and see how it was the next day.

When I opened my case book to make a note of her visit and a brief summary
of the symptoms she had described and betrayed, I hesitated a moment about
the diagnosis, and finally decided to write provisionally for my guidance,
or rather by way of prognosis, the one word, "Hysteria!"


CHAPTER XIII.


Next day I found that Evadne's cold was decidedly worse, and as the
weather was severe I ordered her to stay in her own rooms.

"Am I going to be ill?" she asked.

"No," I answered, pooh-poohing the notion.

"Doctor, you dash my hopes!" she said. "I am always happy when I am ill.
It _is_ such a relief."

I had heard her use the phrase twice before, but it was only now that I
saw her meaning. Physical suffering was evidently a relief from the mental
misery, and this proved that the trouble was of longer standing than I had
at first suspected. She had used the same expression, I remembered, when I
first attended her, during that severe attack of pneumonia.

Colonel Colquhoun had returned, she told me, but I did not see him that
day, as he was out. Next morning, however, I came earlier on purpose, and
encountered him in the hall. He was not in uniform, I was thankful to see,
for he was very apt to assume his orderly room manners therewith, and they
were decidedly objectionable to the average civilian, whatever military
men might think of them.

"Ah, how do you do?" he said. "So you've been having honours thrust upon
you? Well, I congratulate you, I'm sure, sincerely, in so far as they are
a pleasure to you; but I condole with you from the bottom of my heart for
your loss. I'm afraid Mrs. Colquhoun is giving you more trouble. Now,
don't say the trouble's a pleasure, for I'll not believe a word of it,
with all you have to occupy you."

"It is no pleasure to see her ill," I answered. "How is she to-day?"

"On my word I can't tell you, because I haven't seen her. I haven't the
_entrée_ to her private apartments. But come and see my new horse,"
he broke off--he was in an exceedingly good humour--"I got him in Ireland,
and I'm inclined to think him a beauty, but I'd like to have your opinion.
It's worth having."

The horse was like Colonel Colquhoun himself, showy; one of those high
steppers that put their feet down where they lift them up almost, and get
over no ground at all to speak of. Having occupied, without compunction,
in inspecting this animal, half an hour of the time he considered too
precious to be wasted on his wife, Colonel Colquhoun summoned Evadne's
maid to show me upstairs, and cheerfully went his way.

But that remark of his about the _entrée_ to his wife's apartments
had made an impression. I was in duty bound to follow up any clue to the
cause of her present state of mind, and here was perhaps a morbid symptom.

"Why have you quarrelled with your husband?" I asked in my most
matter-of-course tone, as soon as I was seated, and had heard about her
cold.

"I have not quarrelled with my husband," she answered, evidently
surprised.

"Then what does he mean by saying that he hasn't the _entrée_ to your
private apartments?"

"I am sure he made no complaint about that," she answered tranquilly.

This was true. He had merely mentioned the fact casually, and not as a
thing that affected his comfort or happiness in any way.

"Colonel Colquhoun and I are better friends now, if anything, than we have
ever been," she added of her own accord, with inquiry in her eyes, as if
she wanted to know what could have made me think otherwise.

I should have said myself that they were excellent friends, but what
precisely did "friends" mean? I scented something anomalous here. However,
it was not a point that I considered it advisable to pursue. I had
ascertained that there was no morbid feeling in the matter, and that was
all that I required to know. I only paid her a short visit that morning,
and did not return for two days; but I had been thinking seriously about
her case in the interval, and carefully prepared to inquire into it
particularly; and an evident increase of languor and depression gave me a
good opening.

"Tell me how you are to-day," I began. "Any trouble?"

"The worry in my head is awful!" she exclaimed. "Let me go downstairs. I
am better there."

She was essentially a child of light and air and movement, requiring
sunshine indoors as well as out to keep her in health. An Italian proverb
says where the sun does not come, the doctor does, and this had been only
too true in her case. It was pure animal instinct which had made the west
window of the drawing room her favourite place. Nature, animal and
vegetable, is under an imperative law to seek the sun, and she had
unconsciously obeyed it for her own good. But she required more than that
transient gleam in the western window; a sun bath daily, when it could be
had, is what I should have prescribed for her; and from her next remark I
judged that she had discovered for herself the harm which the deprivation
of light was doing her.

"I can see the sun all day long beyond the shadow of the house," she
continued, "but I want to feel it, too. I would like it to shine on me in
the early morning, and wake me up and warm me. There is no heat so
grateful; and I only feel half alive in these dark, damp rooms. I never
had bronchitis or was delicate at all in any way until we came here. Let
me go down, won't you?"

"Well, as your cold is so much better, you may go downstairs if you like.
But you mustn't go out," I answered. "How are you going to amuse
yourself?"

"Oh!"--she looked around the room as if in search of something--"I don't
know exactly. Work, I suppose."

"You don't read much?"

"No, not now," she answered, leaning forward with her hands clasped on her
lap, and looking dreamily into the fire.

"Does that mean that you used to read once?" I pursued, "You have plenty
of books here."

She looked toward the well-filled cases, "Yes," she said, "old friends, I
seldom open any of them now."

"Do you never feel that they reproach you for losing interest in them?"

She smiled. "I think perhaps they are relieved because I have ceased from
troubling them--from requiring more of them than they could give me," she
answered, smothering a sigh.

"May I look at them?" I asked, anticipating her permission by rising and
going toward them.

"Yes; certainly," she answered, rising herself, and following me
languidly. The books were arranged in groups--science, history, biography,
travels, poetry, fiction; with bound volumes of such periodicals as the
_Contemporary Review_, _The Nineteenth Century_, and the
_Westminster_. I read the titles of the volumes in the science
divisions with surprise, for she had never betrayed, nor had I ever
suspected, that she had added the incident of learning to the accident of
brains. But if she knew the contents of but half of these books well she
must be a highly educated woman. I took out several to see how they had
been read, and found them all carefully annotated, with marginal notes
very clearly written, and containing apposite quotations from and
references to the best authorities on the various subjects. This was
especially the case with books on the natural sciences; the physical ones
having apparently interested her less.

"These are not very elegant books for a lady's boudoir," she said,
referring to the plain dark bindings. "I dislike gorgeously bound books,
and could never make a pet of one. They are like over-dressed people; all
one's care is concentrated upon their appearance, and their real worth of
character, if they have any, escapes one."

"Were you ever an omnivorous reader?" I asked.

"No, I am thankful to say," she answered, her natural aptitude for
intellectual pursuits overcoming her artificial objection to them, as she
looked at her books and became interested in them in spite of herself;
"for I notice that the average reader who reads much remembers little, and
is absurdly inaccurate. It is as bad to read everything as to eat
everything; the mind, when it is gorged with a surfeit of subjects,
retains none of them."

She had a fairly representative collection of French, Italian, German
books, all equally well-read and annotated, each in its own language, the
French and Italian being excellent, but the German imperfect, although, as
she told me, she liked both the language and the literature very much the
best of the three. "German suggested ideas to me," she said, "and that is
why I paid less attention to the construction of the language, I think.
But I am afraid you will find no elegancies in any tongue I use, for
language has always been to me a vehicle of thought, and not a part of art
to be employed with striking effect. Now, here is Carlyle, the arch
phrasemaker. I always admired him more than I loved him; but his books are
excellent for intellectual exercise. He forced those phrases from his
brain with infinite pains, and, when you take them collectively, you find
yourself obliged to force them into yours in like manner."

She had become all interest and animation by this time, and I had never
known her so delightful as she was that morning while showing me her
books. She had no objection to lending me any that I chose, although I
told her that I only wanted them to read her notes. I took a variety, but
found no morbid tendency in any remark she had made upon them.

I paid my visit late in the afternoon next day, and found Evadne in the
drawing room. She was standing in the window when I entered, but came down
the room to greet me.

"I have been watching for you," she said. "I hoped you would come early.
And I have also been watching that party of jubilant ducks waddling down
the road. Come and see them. I believe they belong to us. They must have
escaped from the yard. But aren't they enjoying the ramble! That old drake
is quite puffed up with excitement and importance! He goes along nodding
his head, and saying again and again to the ducks: 'Now, didn't I tell you
so! and aren't you glad you took my advice and came?' And all the ducks
are smiling and complimenting him upon his wisdom and courage. They ought
to be driven back, but I haven't the heart to spoil their pleasure just
yet by informing against them."

I was standing beside her in the window now, and she looked up at me,
smiling as she spoke. She was brighter under the immediate influence even
of the watery winter sun, now a red ball, glowing behind the brown
branches of the leafless trees, than she had been in her gloomy north room;
and I took this lively interest in the adventurous ducks to be a glimpse
of the joyous, healthy mind, seeing character in all things animate, and
gifted with sympathy as well as insight, which must naturally have been
hers.

"When am I to go out?" she asked, "I begin to long for a sight of my
fellow-creatures. I don't want to speak to them. I only want to see them.
But I am sociable to that extent--when I am in my right mind."

"Tell me about this mental malady," I begged.

"Ah," she began, laughing up at me, but with a touch of bitterness. "I
interest you now! I am a case! You do not flatter me. But I mean to give
you every help in my power. If only you could cure me!" She clasped her
hands and held them out to me, the gesture of an instant, but full of
earnest entreaty.

"Come from the window," I said. "It is chilly here."

"Yes, come to the fire," she rejoined, leading the way; "and sit down, and
let us have tea, and talk, and be cosey. You want me to talk about myself,
and I will if I can. I was happy just now, but you see I am depressed in a
moment. It is misery to me to be so variable. And I constantly feel as if
I wanted something--to be somewhere, or to have something; I don't know
where or what; it is a sort of general dissatisfaction, but it is all the
worse for not being positive. If I knew what I wanted, I should be cured
by the effort to obtain it."

She rang the bell, and began to make up the fire; and I sat down and
watched her because she liked to do those things in her own house.
"Strangers wait upon me," she said, "but my friends allow me to wait upon
them."

When the servant had brought tea and retired, she began again.

"Now question me," she said, "and make me tell you the truth."

"I am sure you will tell me the truth," I asserted.

"I am sure I shall try," she replied; "but I am not so sure that I shall
succeed. If you provoke me, I shall fence with you; if you confuse me, I
shall unwittingly say 'yes' when I mean 'no.' In fact, I am surprised to
find myself confiding this trouble to you at all! It has come about by
accident, but I am very glad; it is such a relief to speak. But how
_has_ it come about?" she broke off. "Did you suspect?"

"Suspect what?"

"That I am insane."

"You are not insane," I answered harshly.

She looked at me as if my words or manner amused her. "I remember now,"
she said. "I complained of the worry in my head, and then you questioned
me."

"It is not an uncommon complaint," I rejoined.

"Is it not?" she answered. "Well, I don't know whether to be sorry for the
other sufferers, or relieved to think that I am not the only one, which is
what you intend, I believe. But, doctor, the misery is terrible,
especially now that it has become almost incessant. It drives me--fills my
mind with such dreadful ideas. I have actually meditated murder lately."

"Murder in the abstract, I supposed?"

"No, murder actually, murder for my own benefit, or what I fancy in that
mood would be for my benefit; the murder of one poor miserable creature
whom I pity with all my heart and really care for--when I am in my right
mind."

My heart sank. It was not necessary for me to know, and I had no
inclination to ask, who the "one poor miserable creature" was.

"And when the impulse is on you, what do you do?" I said.

"It is not an impulse exactly," she answered; "at least, it is nothing
which I have ever had the slightest inclination to act upon. I am just
possessed by the idea--whatever it may be--and then I cannot sit still. I
have to rush out."

"Into Regent Street, for example?" I suggested, her last remark having
thrown a sudden side-light upon that occurrence.

"Yes," she said. "But I didn't know I was going to Regent Street. I had
read of Dickens prowling about the streets of London late at night when he
was suffering from the effects of overwork, and recovering his
tranquillity and power in that way, and I thought I would try the
experiment; so I went out and just walked on until I was tired, and then I
got into an omnibus, so as to be with the people, and when it stopped and
they all got out, I got out too, and walked on again, and then that horrid
old man spoke to me. It was a great shock, but it had the happiest effect.
I woke up, as it were, the moment I got rid of him, and felt quite myself
again; and then I hurried back, as you know. You still disapprove? Well,
in one way, perhaps you are right; but still it did me good." She stopped,
and looked into the fire thoughtfully; and then she smiled. "Forgive me,
do!" she said. "I know I behaved badly next day; I could not help it. The
sudden relief to my mind had sent my spirits up inordinately for one thing;
and then your face! Your consternation was really comical! If I had
injured you irreparably in your estimation of the value of your own
opinion of people, you could not have cared more. But I am sorry, very,
very sorry," she added, with feeling, "that you should have lost your
respect for me."

"What could make you think that I had lost my respect for you?" I asked in
surprise.

"Because, you know, you have never come to see me since, as you used to
do." She looked at me a moment wistfully, and I knew she half expected me
to explain or make some excuse; but I could not, unfortunately, do either
without making bad worse. I could assure her, however, honestly, that I
had not lost my respect for her.

"And I came to see you when you required me," I added.

But she was not satisfied, "I know your philanthropy," she said. "But I
would rather have you come as of old because you believed in me, and like
and respect me. I value your friendship, and it pains me to find that you
can only treat me now like any other suffering sinner. Is it going to be
so always?"

  ("Will the child kill me with her innocent talk?")

She had not alluded to the discontinuance of my visits before. I thought
she had not missed me, and, being in a double mood, had been somewhat hurt
by the seeming indifference, although I would not have had her want me
when I could not come. Now, however, I was greatly distressed to find the
construction she had put upon my absence, and all the more so because I
could not explain.

"Do not say that!" I exclaimed. "You have always had, you always will
have, my most sincere respect. It is part of an unhealthy state of mind
which makes you doubt the attachment of your friends."

She was glad to accept this assertion. "Ah, yes!" she said. "I know the
symptoms, but I had forgotten for the moment. Thank you. I _am_ so
glad to see you again!" She sighed, leaned back in her chair, folded her
hands on her lap, and looked at me--"if only as a doctor," she added
slowly. "You have some mysterious power over my mind. All great doctors
have the power I mean; I wonder what it is. Your very presence restores me
in an extraordinary way. You dispel the worry in my head without a word,
by just being here, however bad it is. I used to long for you so on those
days when you never came, and I used to watch for you and be disappointed
when you drove past; but then I always said, 'He will come to-morrow,' and
that was something to look forward to. I used to think at first you would
get over my escapade, or learn to take another view of it; but then, when
you never came, I gradually lost heart and hope, and that is how it was I
broke down, I think."

This guileless confidence affected me painfully.

"But I want to discover the secret of a great doctor's success," she
pursued. "What is your charm? There is something mesmeric about you, I
think, something inimical to disease at all events. There is healing in
your touch, and your very manners make an impression which cures."

"Knowledge, I suppose, has nothing to do with it?" I suggested, smiling.

"No, nothing," she answered emphatically. "I have carried out directions
of yours successfully which had been previously given to me by another
doctor and tried by me without effect. You alter the attitude of one's
mind somehow--that is how you do it, I believe."

"Well, I hope to alter the present attitude of your mind completely," I
answered. "And to resume. I want you to tell me how you feel when one of
those tormenting thoughts has passed. Do you suffer remorse for having
entertained it?"

"Only an occasional pang," she said. "I do not allow myself to sorrow or
suffer for thoughts which I cannot control. I am suffering from a morbid
state of mind, and it is my duty to fight against the impulses which it
engenders. But my responsibility begins and ends with the struggle. And I
am quite sure that it is wiser to try and forget that such ideas ever were
than to encourage them to haunt me by recollecting them even for purposes
of penitential remorse."

"And when it is not a criminal impulse, that affects you---"

"_Criminal!_" she ejaculated, aghast at the word.

I had used it on purpose to see its effect upon her, and was satisfied.
The moral consciousness was still intact.

"Yes," I persisted. "But when it is not an impulse of that kind, what is
it that disturbs your mind?"

"Thoughts of the suffering, the awful, needless suffering that there is in
the world. The perception of it is a spur which goads me at times so that
I feel as if I could do almost anything to lessen the sum of it. But then,
you see, my hands are tied, so that all I can do is think, think, think."

"We must change that to work, work, work," I said.

"It is too late," she answered despondently. "Body and mind have suffered--
mind and body. All that is not wrong in me is weak. I would have it
otherwise, yes. But give me some anodyne to relieve the pain; that is all
you can do for me now."

"I will give you no anodyne, either actual or figurative," I answered,
rising to go. "If you had no recuperative force left in you there would be
less energy in your despair. It rests with yourself now entirely to be as
healthy-minded as ever again if you like."

I never could remember whether I said good-bye to her that day, or just
walked out of the room, like the forgetful boor I sometimes am, with the
words on my lips.


CHAPTER XIV.


A medical man who does not keep his moral responsibility before him in the
consideration of a case must be a very indifferent practitioner, and, with
regard to Evadne, I felt mine to such an extent that, before the interview
was over, I had decided that I was not the proper person to treat her. I
doubted my judgment for one thing, which showed that for once my nerve was
at fault; and I had other reasons which it is not necessary to give. I
therefore determined to run up to town to consult Sir Shadwell Rock about
her. He was a distinguished colleague and personal friend of mine, a man
of vast experience, and many years my senior; and I knew that if he would
treat her, she could not be in better hands.

When I left As-You-Like-It I found that I had just time to drive to
Morningquest and catch the last train to town. It was a four hours'
journey, but fortunately there was a train in the early morning which
would bring me back in time for my own work.

I knew Sir Shadwell was in town, and telegraphed to him to beg him to see
me that night at half-past eleven if he possibly, could, and, on arriving,
I found him at home--very much at home, indeed, in a smoking jacket and
slippers over a big fire in his own private sanctum, enjoying his bachelor
ease with a cigarette and the last shilling shocker.

I apologised for my untimely visit, but he put me at my ease at once by
cordially assuring me that I had done him a favour. "I was going to a
boring big dinner this evening when your telegram arrived, and your coming
in this way suggested something sufficiently important to detain me, so I
sent an excuse, and have had a wholesome chop, and--eh--_a real good
time_," he added confidentially, tapping the novelette. "Extraordinary
production this, really. Most entertaining. I can't guess who did it, you
know, I can't indeed--but, my dear boy, to what do I owe the pleasure?
What can I do for you?

"First of all give me a wholesome chop if you have another in the house,
for I'm famishing."

"Oh, a thousand pardons for my remissness!" he exclaimed, ringing the bell
vehemently. "Of course you haven't dined. I ought to have thought of that.
Something very important, I suppose?"

"A most interesting case."

"Mental?"

"Yes. A lady."

"Well, not another word until you've had something to eat. Suitable
surroundings play an important part in the discussion of such cases, and
suitable times and seasons also. Just before dinner one isn't sanguine,
and just after one is too much so. When you have eaten, take time to
reflect--and a cigarette if you are a smoker." He had been holding his
book in his hand all the time, but now he pottered to a side-table with an
old man's stiffness, peeped at the paragraph he had been reading, marked
his place with a paper cutter, and muttered--"Very strange, for if she
didn't steal the jewels, who did? Mustn't dip though; spoils it." He put
the book down, and returned to me, taking off his spectacles as he came,
and smoothing his thick white hair. "Now don't say a word if you've read
it," he cautioned me. "I always owe everybody a grudge who tells me the
plot of a story I'm interested in. But, let me see, what was I saying? Oh!
Take time, that was it! There is nothing like letting yourself settle if
you are at all perplexed. When the memory is crowded with details the mind
becomes muddy, and you must let it clear itself. That is the secret of my
own success. In any difficulty I have always waited. Don't try to think,
Much better dismiss the matter from your mind altogether, make yourself
comfortable in the easiest chair in the room, get a rousing book--the
subject is of no importance, so long as it interests you--and in half an
hour, if the physical well-being is satisfactory, you will find the mental
tension gradually relax. Your ideas begin to flow, your judgment becomes
clear, and you suddenly see for yourself in a way that astonishes you."

"Then pray oblige me by resuming your seat and cigarette," I answered,
"and let me transfer my difficulty to you while the moment
lasts--_your_ moment!"

"When you have dined," he said good-humouredly. "I won't hear a word while
you are famishing. Tell me how you are yourself, and what you are doing.
My dear boy, it is really a pleasure to see you! Why aren't you married?"

"Now, really, do you expect me to answer such an important question as
that with my mind in its present muddy condition!" I retorted upon him.
"My many reasons are all rioting in my recollection, and I can't see one
clearly,"

The old gentleman smiled, and sat patting the arms of his chair for a
little. "You're looking fagged," he remarked presently. "Work won't hurt
you, but beware of worry!"

My dinner was brought to me on a tray at this instant, and the dear old
man got up to see that it was properly served. He tried the champagne
himself, to be sure it was right, and gave careful directions about the
coffee. His interest in everything was as fresh as a boy's, and nothing he
could do in the way of kindness was ever a trouble to him.

"You have been coming out strong in defence of morality lately," I
remarked, when I had dined. "You have somewhat startled the proprieties."

"Startled the pruderies, you mean," he answered, bridling. "The
proprieties face any necessity for discussion with modest discretion,
however painful it may be,"

"Well, you've done some good, at all events," I answered. I did not tell
him, but only that very day I had heard it said that his was a name which
all women should reverence for what he had done for some of them.

"Well," he said, "the clergy have had a long innings. They have been hard
at it for the last eighteen hundred years, and society is still rotten at
the core. It is our turn now. But come, draw up your chair to the fire and
be comfortable. Well, yes," he went on, rubbing his hands, "I suppose
eventually morality will be taught by medical men, and when it is much
misery will be saved to the suffering sex. My own idea is that a woman is
a human being; but the clerical theory is that she is a dangerous beast,
to be kept in subjection, and used for domestic purposes only. Married
life is made up to a great extent of the most heartless abuse of a woman's
love and unselfishness. Submission, you know--!"

When I had given him the details of Evadne's case, so far as I had gone
into it, he asked me what my own theory was.

"I feel sure it is the old story of these cases in women," I answered.
"The natural bent has been thwarted to begin with."

"Yes," he commented, "that is a fruitful source of mischief even in these
days, when women so often listen to the voice of the Lord himself speaking
in their own hearts, and do what he directs in spite of the Church. The
restrictions imposed upon women of ability warp their minds, and the
rising generation suffers. But how has the natural bent been thwarted in
this case?"

"I have not ascertained," I said. "She is a woman of remarkable general
intelligence, but she makes no use of it, and she does not seem to have
any one decided talent that she cares to cultivate, and consequently she
has no absorbing interest to occupy her mind, no purpose for which to live
and make the most of her abilities. The shrike is said to catch mice, but
it is not known to attack squirrels. He certainly could not have strangled
the chipmunk, and I am curious to know what would have been the result had
he overtaken him. Probably it was only a kind of brag on the part of the
bird,--a bold dash where no risk was run. He simulated the hawk, the
squirrel's real enemy, and no doubt enjoyed the joke.

On another occasion, as I was riding along a mountain road early in
April, a bird started from the fence where I was passing, and flew heavily
to the branch of a near apple-tree. It proved to be a shrike with a
small bird in his beak.

He thrust his victim into a fork of a branch, then wiped his bloody
beak upon the bark.

A youth who was with me, to whom I pointed out the fact, had never heard of
such a thing, and was much incensed at the shrike.

"Let me fire a stone at him," said he, and jumping out of the wagon,
he pulled off his mittens and fumbled about for a stone.

Having found one to his liking, with great earnestness and deliberation
he let drive. The bird was in more danger than I had imagined, for he
escaped only by a hair's breadth; a guiltless bird like the robin
or sparrow would surely have been slain; the missile grazed the
spot where the shrike sat, and cut the ends of his wings as he
darted behind the branch.

We could see that the murdered bird had been brained, as its head hung
down toward us.

The shrike is not a summer bird with us in the Northern States, but
mainly a fall and winter one; in summer he goes farther north.

I see him most frequently in November and December.

I recall a morning during the former month that was singularly clear and
motionless; the air was like a great drum. Apparently every sound within
the compass of the horizon was distinctly heard. The explosions back in the
cement quarries ten miles away smote the hollow and reverberating air
like giant fists.

Just as the sun first showed his fiery brow above the horizon, a gun was
discharged over the river.

On the instant a shrike, perched on the topmost spray of a maple
above the house, set up a loud, harsh call or whistle, suggestive
of certain notes of the blue jay.

The note presently became a crude, broken warble. Even this scalper of
the innocents had music in his soul on such a morning. He saluted the
sun as a robin might have done.

After he had finished, he flew away toward the east.

The shrike is a citizen of the world, being found in both hemispheres.
It does not appear that the European species differs essentially
from our own.

In Germany he is called the nine-killer, from the belief that he
kills and sticks upon thorns nine grasshoppers a day.

To make my portrait of the shrike more complete, I will add another trait
of his described by an acute observer who writes me from western
New York.

He saw the bird on a bright midwinter morning when the thermometer stood
at zero, and by cautious approaches succeeded in getting under the
apple-tree upon which he was perched.

The shrike was uttering a loud, clear note like _clu-eet, clu-eet,
clu-eet,_ and, on finding he had a listener who was attentive and
curious, varied his performance and kept it up continuously for
fifteen minutes.

He seemed to enjoy having a spectator, and never took his eye off
him.

The observer approached within twenty feet of him.

"As I came near," he says, "the shrike began to scold at me, a
sharp, buzzing, squeaking sound not easy to describe.

After a little he came out on the end of the limb nearest me, then he
posed himself, and, opening his wings a little, began to trill and
warble under his breath, as it were, with an occasional squeak, and
vibrating his half-open wings in time with his song." Some of his notes
resembled those of the bluebird, and the whole performance is
described as pleasing and melodious.

This account agrees with Thoreau's observation, where he speaks of the
shrike "with heedless and unfrozen melody bringing back summer
again."

Sings Thoreau:--
"His steady sails he never furls At any time o' year, And perching now
on winter's curls, He whistles in his ear."
But his voice is that of a savage,--strident and disagreeable.

I have often wondered how this bird was kept in check; in the
struggle for existence it would appear to have greatly the advantage
of other birds.

It cannot, for instance, be beset with one tenth of the dangers
that threaten the robin, and yet apparently there are a thousand
robins to every shrike.

It builds a warm, compact nest in the mountains and dense woods,
and lays six eggs, which would indicate a rapid increase.

The pigeon lays but two eggs, and is preyed upon by both man and beast,
millions of them meeting a murderous death every year; yet always some
part of the country is swarming with untold numbers of them. [Footnote:
This is no longer the case. The passenger pigeon now seems on the verge of
extinction (1895).] But the shrike is one of our rarest birds. I myself
seldom see more than two each year, and before I became an observer
of birds I never saw any.

In size the shrike is a little inferior to the blue jay, with much
the same form. If you see an unknown bird about your orchard or fields in
November or December of a bluish grayish complexion, with dusky wings
and tail that show markings of white, flying rather heavily from point
to point, or alighting down in the stubble occasionally, it is pretty sure
to be the shrike.

V
Nature never tires of repeating and multiplying the same species. She
makes a million bees, a million birds, a million mice or rats, or other
animals, so nearly alike that no eye can tell one from another; but it is
rarely that she issues a small and a large edition, as it were, of the
same species. Yet she has done it in a few cases among the birds with
hardly more difference than a foot-note added or omitted. The cedar-bird,
for instance, is the Bohemian waxwing or chatterer in smaller
type, copied even to the minute, wax-like appendages that bedeck the ends
of the wing-quills. It is about one third smaller, and a little lighter
in color, owing perhaps to the fact that it is confined to a warmer
latitude, its northward range seeming to end about where that of
its larger brother begins.

Its flight, its note, its manners, its general character and habits, are
almost identical with those of its prototype. It is confined exclusively
to this continent, while the chatterer is an Old World bird as well, and
ranges the northern parts of both continents.

The latter comes to us from the hyperborean regions, brought down occasionally
by the great cold waves that originate in those high latitudes.

It is a bird of Siberian and Alaskan evergreens, and passes its life for the
most part far beyond the haunts of man. I have never seen the bird, but
small bands of them make excursions every winter down into our
territory from British America.

Audubon, I believe, saw them in Maine; other observers have seen them
in Minnesota. It has the crest of the cedar-bird, the same yellow
border to its tail, but is marked with white on its wings, as if
a snowflake or two had adhered to it from the northern cedars and
pines.

If you see about the evergreens in the coldest, snowiest weather
what appear to be a number of very large cherry-birds, observe them
well, for the chances are that visitants from the circumpolar regions
are before your door. It is a sign, also, that the frost legions of the
north are out in great force and carrying all before them.

Our cedar or cherry bird is the most silent bird we have.

Our neutral-tinted birds, like him, as a rule are our finest songsters;
but he has no song or call, uttering only a fine bead-like note
on taking flight.

This note is the cedar-berry rendered back in sound.
When the ox-heart cherries, which he has only recently become acquainted
with, have had time to enlarge his pipe and warm his heart, I shall expect
more music from him.

But in lieu of music, what a pretty compensation are those minute, almost
artificial-like, plumes of orange and vermilion that tip the ends of
his wing quills!
Nature could not give him these and a song too.

She has given the hummingbird a jewel upon his throat, but no song, save
the hum of his wings.

Another bird that is occasionally borne to us on the crest of the cold
waves from the frozen zone, and that is repeated on a smaller scale in a
permanent resident, is the pine grosbeak; his _alter ego,_ reduced
in size, is the purple finch, which abounds in the higher latitudes
of the temperate zone.

The color and form of the two birds are again essentially the same.

The females and young males of both species are of a grayish brown
like the sparrow, while in the old males this tint is imperfectly
hidden beneath a coat of carmine, as if the color had been poured
upon their heads, where it is strongest, and so oozed down and
through the rest of the plumage.

Their tails are considerably forked, their beaks cone-shaped and heavy,
and their flight undulating.
Those who have heard the grosbeak describe its song as similar to that
of the finch, though no doubt it is louder and stronger. The finch's
instrument is a fife tuned to love and not to war. He blows a clear, round
note, rapid and intricate, but full of sweetness and melody. His hardier
relative with that larger beak and deeper chest must fill the woods
with sounds.

Audubon describes its song as exceedingly rich and full.

As in the case of the Bohemian waxwing, this bird is also common to both
worlds, being found through Northern Europe and Asia and the northern
parts of this continent. It is the pet of the pine-tree, and one of its
brightest denizens. Its visits to the States are irregular and somewhat
mysterious. A great flight of them occurred in the winter of 1874-75.
They attracted attention all over the country. Several other flights of
them have occurred during the century. When this bird comes, it is so
unacquainted with man that its tameness is delightful to behold. It
thrives remarkably well in captivity, and in a couple of weeks will become
so tame that it will hop down and feed out of its master's or mistress's
hand. It comes from far beyond the region of the apple, yet it takes at
once to this fruit, or rather to the seeds, which it is quick to divine,
at its core.

Close akin to these two birds, and standing in the same relation to
each other, are two other birds that come to us from the opposite zone,--the
torrid,--namely, the blue grosbeak and his petit duplicate, the indigo-bird.
The latter is a common summer resident with us,--a bird of the groves
and bushy fields, where his bright song may be heard all through
the long summer day.

I hear it in the dry and parched August when most birds are silent, sometimes
delivered on the wing and sometimes from the perch.

Indeed, with me its song is as much a midsummer sound as is the brassy
crescendo of the cicada.

The memory of its note calls to mind the flame-like quiver of the
heated atmosphere and the bright glare of the meridian sun.

Its color is much more intense than that of the common bluebird, as summer
skies are deeper than those of April, but its note is less mellow and
tender. Its original, the blue grosbeak, is an uncertain wanderer from
the south, as the pine grosbeak is from the north. I have never seen
it north of the District of Columbia. It has a loud, vivacious song, of
which it is not stingy, and which is a large and free rendering of the
indigo's, and belongs to summer more than to spring. The bird is colored
the same as its lesser brother, the males being a deep blue and the females
a modest drab. Its nest is usually placed low down, as is the indigo's,
and the male carols from the tops of the trees in its vicinity in the same
manner. Indeed, the two birds are strikingly alike in every respect except
in size and in habitat, and, as in each of the other cases, the
lesser bird is, as it were, the point, the continuation, of the
larger, carrying its form and voice forward as the reverberation
carries the sound.

I know the ornithologists, with their hair-splittings, or rather feather-splittings,
point out many differences, but they are unimportant. The fractions
may not agree, but the whole numbers are the same.

VII

A BED OF BOUGHS

When Aaron came again to camp and tramp with me, or, as he wrote, "to eat
locusts and wild honey with me in the wilderness," It was past the middle
of August, and the festival of the season neared its close. We were
belated guests, but perhaps all the more eager on that account, especially
as the country was suffering from a terrible drought, and the only
promise of anything fresh or tonic or cool was in primitive woods
and mountain passes.

"Now, my friend," said I, "we can go to Canada, or to the Maine woods,
or to the Adirondacks, and thus have a whole loaf and a big loaf of this
bread which you know as well as I will have heavy streaks in it, and
will not be uniformly sweet; or we can seek nearer woods, and content
ourselves with one week instead of four, with the prospect of a keen
relish to the last. Four sylvan weeks sound well, but the poetry is mainly
confined to the first one. We can take another slice or two of the
Catskills, can we not, without being sated with kills and dividing ridges?"

"Anywhere," replied Aaron, "so that we have a good tramp and plenty of
primitive woods. No doubt we should find good browsing on Peakamoose, and
trout enough in the streams at its base."
So without further ado we made ready, and in due time found ourselves,
with our packs on our backs, entering upon a pass in the mountains that
led to the valley of the Rondout.

The scenery was wild and desolate in the extreme, the mountains on either
hand looking as if they had been swept by a tornado of stone.
Stone avalanches hung suspended on their sides, or had shot down into the
chasm below. It was a kind of Alpine scenery, where crushed and broken
boulders covered the earth instead of snow.

In the depressions in the mountains the rocky fragments seemed to have
accumulated, and to have formed what might be called stone glaciers that
were creeping slowly down.

Two hours' march brought us into heavy timber where the stone cataclysm had
not reached, and before long the soft voice of the Rondout was heard in the
gulf below us. We paused at a spring run, and I followed it a few yards
down its mountain stairway, carpeted with black moss, and had my first
glimpse of the unknown stream. I stood upon rocks and looked many feet
down into a still, sunlit pool and saw the trout disporting themselves
in the transparent water, and I was ready to encamp at once; but my
companion, who had not been tempted by the view, insisted upon holding
to our original purpose, which was to go farther up the stream. We passed
a clearing with three or four houses and a saw-mill. The dam of the
latter was filled with such clear water that it seemed very shallow,
and not ten or twelve feet deep, as it really was.

The fish were as conspicuous as if they had been in a pail.

Two miles farther up we suited ourselves and went into camp.

If there ever was a stream cradled in the rocks, detained lovingly
by them, held and fondled in a rocky lap or tossed in rocky arms, that
stream is the Rondout.

Its course for several miles from its head is over the stratified rock,
and into this it has worn a channel that presents most striking and peculiar
features. Now it comes silently along on the top of the rock, spread out
and flowing over that thick, dark green moss that is found only in
the coldest streams; then drawn into a narrow canal only four or five
feet wide, through which it shoots, black and rigid, to be presently caught
in a deep basin with shelving, overhanging rocks, beneath which the phoebe-bird
builds in security, and upon which the fisherman stands and casts his
twenty or thirty feet of line without fear of being thwarted by the brush;
then into a black, well-like pool, ten or fifteen feet deep, with a smooth,
circular wall of rock on one side worn by the water through long ages; or
else into a deep, oblong pocket, into which and out of which the water
glides without a ripple.

The surface rock is a coarse sandstone superincumbent upon a lighter-colored
conglomerate that looks like Shawangunk grits, and when this latter
is reached by the water it seems to be rapidly disintegrated by it,
thus forming the deep excavations alluded to.

My eyes had never before beheld such beauty in a mountain stream. The
water was almost as transparent as the air,--was, indeed, like liquid air;
and as it lay in these wells and pits enveloped in shadow, or lit up by
a chance ray of the vertical sun, it was a perpetual feast to the
eye,--so cool, so deep, so pure; every reach and pool like a vast
spring. You lay down and drank or dipped the water up in your cup, and
found it just the right degree of refreshing coldness. One is never prepared
for the clearness of the water in these streams. It is always a surprise.
See them every year for a dozen years, and yet, when you first
come upon one, you will utter an exclamation.

I saw nothing like it in the Adirondacks, nor in Canada. Absolutely without
stain or hint of impurity, it seems to magnify like a lens, so that
the bed of the stream and the fish in it appear deceptively near.
It is rare to find even a trout stream that is not a little "off
color," as they say of diamonds, but the waters in the section of
which I am writing have the genuine ray; it is the undimmed and
untarnished diamond.

If I were a trout, I should ascend every stream till I found the Rondout.
It is the ideal brook.

What homes these fish have, what retreats under the rocks, what
paved or flagged courts and areas, what crystal depths where no net
or snare can reach them!

--no mud, no sediment, but here and there in the clefts and seams
of the rock patches of white gravel,--spawning-beds ready-made.

The finishing touch is given by the moss with which the rock is everywhere
carpeted. Even in the narrow grooves or channels where the water runs
the swiftest, the green lining is unbroken. It sweeps down under the stream
and up again on the other side, like some firmly woven texture. It
softens every outline and cushions every stone. At a certain depth in
the great basins and wells it of course ceases, and only the smooth-swept
flagging of the place-rock is visible.

The trees are kept well back from the margin of the stream by the want
of soil, and the large ones unite their branches far above it,
thus forming a high winding gallery, along which the fisherman
passes and makes his long casts with scarcely an interruption from
branch or twig.

In a few places he makes no cast, but sees from his rocky perch the
water twenty feet below him, and drops his hook into it as into a
well.

We made camp at a bend in the creek where there was a large surface
of mossy rock uncovered by the shrunken stream,--a clean, free
space left for us in the wilderness that was faultless as a kitchen
and dining-room, and a marvel of beauty as a lounging-room, or an
open court, or what you will.

An obsolete wood or bark road conducted us to it, and disappeared up the
hill in the woods beyond. A loose boulder lay in the middle, and on the
edge next the stream were three or four large natural wash-basins
scooped out of the rock, and ever filled ready for use.

Our lair we carved out of the thick brush under a large birch on the bank.
Here we planted our flag of smoke and feathered our nest with balsam and
hemlock boughs and ferns, and laughed at your four walls and pillows
of down.

Wherever one encamps in the woods, there is home, and every object and
feature about the place take on a new interest and assume a near
and friendly relation to one.

We were at the head of the best fishing.
There was an old bark-clearing not far off which afforded us a daily
dessert of most delicious blackberries,--an important item in the
woods,--and then all the features of the place--a sort of cave above
ground--were of the right kind.

There was not a mosquito, or gnat, or other pest in the woods, the cool
nights having already cut them off.

The trout were sufficiently abundant, and afforded us a few hours' sport
daily to supply our wants.
The only drawback was, that they were out of season, and only
palatable to a woodman's keen appetite.

What is this about trout spawning in October and November, and in some
cases not till March?
In that solemn moment, still holding his hand and gazing
down into his face, I rejoiced to feel that the trouble had passed from my
soul, that the rage and bitterness were no more, and that only the
touching thought of his kindly hospitality and perfect confidence in my
own integrity--a confidence impossible in a man who has not himself the
saying grace of a better nature--would remain with me from that time forth
forever.

I laid my hand on Evadne's shoulder, and she looked up.

"Ah! have you come?" she cried, her voice broken with sobs that shook her.
"Is it really true? Can nothing be done? Oh, poor, poor man! What a life!
What a death! A miserable, miserable, misspent life, and such an end--in a
moment--without a word of warning--and all these years when I have been
beside him, silent and helpless. If only I could have done something to
help him--said something. Surely, surely there was _something_ I
might have, done?" She held her clasped hands out toward me, the familiar
gesture, appealing to me to blame her.

"Thank Heaven!" I inwardly ejaculated. "This is as it should be."

In the presence of eternal death, her own transient sufferings were
forgotten, and healthy human pity destroyed any sense of personal injury
she might have cherished.

We four men stood awkwardly, patiently by for several minutes, listening
to her innocent self-upbraidings, knowing her story, and touched beyond
expression by the utter absence of all selfish sentiment in any word she
said.

When she was quite exhausted, I drew her hand through my arm, and took her
to her own room.

Cardiac syncope was the cause of death. Colonel Colquhoun had been out
that evening, and had, through some mistake of the coachman's, missed his
carriage, and walked home in a towering rage. The exertion and excitement,
acting together on a heart already affected, had brought on the attack. He
was storming violently in the hall, with his face flushed crimson--so the
servants told us--when all at once he stopped, and called "Evadne!" twice,
as if in alarm; and Mrs. Colquhoun ran down from the drawing room; but
before she could reach him he fell on the floor, and never spoke again.


CHAPTER XVII.


Much of my time during the next few months was devoted I to the
consideration of Evadne's affairs. Her father made no sign, and she had no
other relation in a position to come forward and share the responsibility;
but, happily, she had very good friends. I had noticed that Diavolo was
singularly agitated when he brought the terrible news that night to
Fountain Towers, but thought little of it, as I knew the boy to be
emotional. The shock to his own feelings did not, however, prevent him
thinking of others, and the next thing I heard of him was that he had been
to Morningquest and waited till the telegraph office opened, in order to
send the news to his own people, and beg them to return at once, if they
could, on Evadne's account; and this they did, in the kindest manner, with
as little delay as possible.

"I have only come to fetch Evadne," Lady Adeline said when she arrived. "I
am going to take her away at once from this dreadful house and this dreary
English winter to a land of sunshine and flowers and soft airs, and I hope
to bring her back in the spring herself again--as _you_ have never
known her!"

Mr. Hamilton-Wells stayed behind, at considerable personal inconvenience,
to consult with me about business. Colonel Colquhoun had died intestate
and also in debt. What he had done with his money we could not make out,
except that a large sum had been sunk in an annuity, which of course died
with him. But one thing was quite evident, which was that Evadne would
have little or nothing besides her pension from the service, and that
would be the merest pittance for one always accustomed to the command of
money as she had been. Mr. Hamilton-Wells wished to impose a handsome sum
on her yearly by fraud and deceit, out of his own ample income.

"Really, ladies are so peculiar about money matters," he said. "I feel
quite sure she would not accept sixpence from me if I were to offer it to
her. But she need not know where the money comes from. It can be paid into
her account at the bank, you see, regularly, and she will take it for
granted that she is entitled to it."

"I am not so sure of that," I answered with some heat, "but at any rate
the plan is not possible."

"Now, my dear Galbraith," Mr, Hamilton-Wells remonstrated, "do not put
your foot down in that way. I am the older man, and I may also say,
without offence, the older friend, and I am married; and Lady Adeline will
strongly approve of what I propose."

"I do not doubt it," I maintained; "but it cannot be done."

"She is not the kind of person to marry for money," Mr. Hamilton-Wells
observed, looking up at the ceiling.

"Who? Mrs. Colquhoun?" I asked. "I don't understand you."

"Oh," he answered, "it occurred to me that you might be thinking such a
consideration would weigh with her in the choice of a second husband."

I stared at the man. He was sitting at a writing table in my library, with
the papers we had been going through spread out before him, and I was
standing opposite; and, as he spoke, he leant back in his chair, with his
elbows on the arms of it, brought the tips of his long white fingers
together, and smiled up at me, bland as a child, innocent of all offence.
I am inclined to think he did secretly enjoy the effect of unexpected
remarks without in the least appreciating the permanent impression he
might be making. But I don't know. Some of these apparently haphazard
observations of his were pregnant with reflection, and I believe, if his
voice had been strong and determined instead of precise and insinuating;
if he had brushed his hair up, instead of parting it in the middle and
plastering it down smoothly on either side of his head; if his hands had
been hardened by exposure and use instead of whitened by excessive care;
if he had worn tweed instead of velvet, Mr. Hamilton-Wells would have been
called acute, and dreaded for his cynicism. But looking as he did,
inoffensive as a lady's luggage, he was allowed to pass unsuspected; and
if his mind were an infernal machine, concealed by a quilted cover, the
world would have to have seen it to credit the fact.

I put my hands in my pockets after that last remark, and walked to the
window glumly; but as I stood with my back to him, I could not help
wondering if he was making faces at me, or up to any other undignified
antics by way of relaxation. Did he ever wriggle with merriment when he
was alone? I turned suddenly at the thought. He was calmly perusing a
paper through his pince-nez, with an expression of countenance at once so
benign, silly, and self-satisfied, that I felt I should like to have
apologised for the suspicion.

"There is nothing for it, Galbraith," he said, "that I can see. She must
either be poverty-stricken or have an income provided for her."

"She has enough to go on with for the present," I answered.

"You can provide the money yourself if you would rather," he suggested, in
the tone of one who gives in good-naturedly to oblige you. "I don't care,
you know, where the money comes from, so long as the source is
disinterested and respectable."

I had returned to the table, but now again I walked to the window.

"But, I think," he continued, while I stood with my back to him, "as you
say, for the present nothing need be done. Give her time for a rope--eh?
What I do deprecate is leaving her to be driven by poverty to marry for
money. My dear Galbraith," he broke off, protesting, "you have been on the
prance for the last half-hour. For a medical man, you have less repose of
manner than is essential, I should say. In fact, you quite give me the
notion that you are impatient. But perhaps I am detaining you?"

"Oh, not at all," I assured him.

"Well, as I was saying," he pursued, "give her time to marry again. That
would be the most satisfactory settlement of her difficulties. She is, I
quite agree with you, a very attractive person. Now, there is the Duke of
Panama already, Lady Adeline says--but she seems to have an objection to
princes, especially if they are at all obese. I do not like obese people
myself. Now, do _you_ ever feel nervous on that score?"

"What score?"

"The score of obesity. You are just nicely proportioned at present for a
man of your age and height. _I_, of course, am far too slender. But
if you were to get any stouter by and by, it would be such a dreadful
thing! I hope flesh is not in your family on both sides. On one I know it
is. Now, my people are all slender. There is a great deal in that, I
notice."

He was doing up the documents now with much neatness and dexterity.

"These had better go to my lawyer," he remarked.

"Why not to mine?" I suggested.

"Oh, allow me," he said, with great suavity--"as the older man. Of course,
as a question of right, we neither of us have any claim to the privilege
of being allowed to help this lady. Eventually, however, one of us may
secure the right; but there is many a slip, you know, and perhaps it would
be less awkward afterward if a person whose disinterestedness is quite
above suspicion had had the direction of affairs from the first."

There could be no doubt of what he meant by this time, and the argument
was unanswerable.

"Do you feel inclined to return with me to Mentone?" he asked.

"I am afraid I cannot get away just now."

"Ah! I suppose it _is_ too soon. Well, she is quite safe with us, and
we will bring her back to Hamilton House in the spring.". Mr.
Hamilton-Wells smiled complacently as he took his seat in his carriage. I
almost expected him to thank me for the sport I had been giving him, he
looked so like a man who had been enjoying himself thoroughly. I thought
about that last remark of his after he had gone, and pitied Lady Adeline.
It must be trying to be liable at any moment to have words, which one
deliberately chooses to hide one's thoughts, set aside as of no
consequence, and the thoughts themselves answered naïvely. However, there
was no real reason for hiding my thoughts any longer on that subject. I
had done my best manfully, I hope, while the necessity lasted, to mask my
feeling for her, even from myself; but there was now no further need for
self-restraint. I might live for her and love her honestly, and openly at
last; and, accordingly, when Sir Shadwell Rock came to me for a few days
at Christmas, I did not attempt to conceal my intention from him.

"It is a great risk," he said gravely, "a very great risk. Of course, now
that the first cause of all the trouble is removed, the mental health may
be thoroughly restored. So long as there is no organic brain lesion there
is hope in all such cases. But I tell you frankly that the first call upon
her physical strength may set up a recurrence of the moral malady, and you
cannot foresee the consequences. However, you know as much about that as I
do, and I can see it's no use warning you. You have made up your mind."

"Yes," I answered. "I shall be able to take good care of her if only I am
fortunate enough to win her."

"Well, well, she seems to be a loyal little body," the old gentleman
replied; "and I wish you success with all my heart. She will have much in
her favour as your wife, and since you are determined to run the risk, let
us hope for the best."

And that was just what I did while I waited for the spring, and to such
good purpose that I became light-hearted as a schoolboy. I watched the
birds building; I noticed the first faint green shadow on the hedges, and
the yellowing of the gorse; I listened in the freshness of the dawn to the
thrush that sang "Evadne." And when at last Mr. Hamilton-Wells walked in
one day unexpectedly, and explained, somewhat superfluously, that he had
come, I could have thrown up my hat and cheered!

"But without the ladies," he added.

"Have you left them behind you?" I demanded, trying not to look blank.

"Yes," he answered very slowly, then added: "At Hamilton House." I suppose
nobody ever thought of kicking anything so "slender" as Mr,
Hamilton-Wells, or associated such a vulgar idea as would have been
involved in the suspicion of a deliberate intention to "sell" you with a
person of such courteous and distinguished manners. But one did
occasionally wonder what he was like at school, and if blessings and abuse
were often showered on him then at one and the same time, as had come to
be the case in later life.

He had come to ask me to dinner that evening, and when I arrived he was
standing on the hearthrug, gracefully, with a palm-leaf fan in his hand,
Evadne greeted me quietly, Lady Adeline with affectionate cordiality, and
Diavolo, who was the only other member of the party, with a grave yet
bright demeanour which made him more like his Uncle Dawne in miniature
than ever.

"'In the spring,'" Mr. Hamilton-Wells observed precisely, waving his fan
to emphasise each word, and addressing a remote angle of the cornice, "'In
the spring a young man's fancy lightly turns to thoughts of love.'"

Diavolo flushed crimson, Lady Adeline looked annoyed, but Evadne sat pale
and still, as if she had not heard.

I was right about her not being likely to leave her affairs in anybody's
hands. Very soon after her arrival she insisted upon having an accurate
statement of accounts, and begged me to go over to Hamilton House one
morning to render it, as she found Mr. Hamilton-Wells quite unapproachable
on the subject.

She received me in the morning room alone, and began at once in the most
business-like way, "Mr. Hamilton-Wells' reticence convinces me that I am a
beggar," she said cheerfully. "Tell me the exact sum I have to depend
upon?"

I named it.

"Oh, then," she proceeded, "the question is, What shall I do? I cannot
possibly live in the world, you know, on such a sum as that."

"What do you propose to do?" I asked, her tone having suggested some
definite plan already formed.

"Go into a sisterhood, I think,' she answered.

"Nonsense!" I exclaimed.

She raised her eyebrows.

"I beg your pardon," I said. "But you are not fit for such a life. Why, in
a month you would be seeing visions and dreaming dreams."

"But I am afraid I shall do that now in any case, wherever I am," she
sighed; and then she added, smiling at her own cynicism; "and I think I
had better go where such things can be turned to good account. I have had
no horrid thoughts, by the way, since I left As-You-Like-It, but of course
I shall relapse."

"No, you will not," I blurted out, "if you marry happily."

Her face flushed all over at the word.

"Will you, Evadne," I proceeded--"or rather could you--be happy with me?"
She rose, and made me a deep courtesy. "Thank you," she answered
scornfully, "for your kind consideration, Sir George Galbraith! I always
thought you the most disinterested person I ever knew, but I had no idea
that even you could go so far as that!"

And then she left me alone with my consternation.

How in the name of all that is perplexing had I offended her?

Lady Adeline came in at that moment, and I put the question to her,
telling her exactly what I had said. She burst out laughing.

"My dear George!" she exclaimed, "forgive me! I can't help it! But don't
you think yourself you were a little bit abrupt? You do not seem to have
mentioned the fact that you feel any special affection for Evadne. It did
not occur to you to protest that you loved her, for instance?"

"No, it did not," I answered; "I should think that the fact is patent
enough without protestations."

"She may have overlooked it, all the same," Lady Adeline suggested, still
laughing at me. "I would advise you to find out the next time you have a
chance."

"Where is she?" I demanded, going toward the door.

"Oh, you won't see her again to-day, you may be sure," she rejoined; "and
it is just as well, you bear, if you mean to make love to her with that
kind of countenance!"

But I would not be advised.

I strode straight up to her room, which I happened to know, and knocked at
the door.

She answered "Come in!" evidently not expecting me, and when she saw who
it was she was furious.

"I cannot understand what you mean by such conduct!" she exclaimed.

"Well, then, I'll make you understand!" I retorted.

Mr. Hamilton-Wells insinuated afterward that Evadne only accepted me to
save her life. But I protested against the libel. I have never, to my
certain knowledge, uttered a rough word either to or before my little lady
in the whole course of our acquaintance. But why, when she loved me, she
should have gone off in that ridiculous tantrum simply because I did not
begin by expressing my love for her, I shall never be able to understand.
She might have been sure that I should have enough to say on that subject
as soon as I was accepted.

The day after the engagement was announced Diavolo called upon me.
Needless to say he found me in the seventh heaven. I had been walking
about the house, unable to settle to anything, and when I heard he had
come I thought it was to congratulate me, and I hurried down; but the
first glimpse of his face caused my heart to contract ominously.

"Well, you have played me a nice trick," he said, with concentrated
bitterness, "both of you. You knew what _my_ intentions were and you
gave me no hint of your own. You preferred to steal a march on me. I could
not have imagined such a thing possible from you. I should have supposed
that you would have thought such underhand conduct low."

"Diavolo!" I gasped, "are you in earnest?"

"Am I in earnest!" he ejaculated. "Look at me! I suppose you think I am
incapable of deep feeling."

"If only I had known!" I exclaimed. "Yet--how could I guess? The
difference of age--and, Diavolo, my dear boy, believe me, I do sympathise
with you most sincerely. This is a bitter drop in the cup for me.
But--but--even if I had known--will it make it worse for you if I say it?--
it is me she loves. She would not have accepted anyone but me. Even if I
_had_ withdrawn in your favour--"

He waved his hand to stop me. "Don't distress yourself," he said. "It is
fate. We are to be punished with extinction as a family for the sins of
our forefathers. My case will be the same as Uncle Dawne's--only," he
added suddenly, and clenched his fists, "only, if you treat her badly,
I'll blow your brains out."

"I hope you will," I answered.

He looked hard at me with a pained expression in his eyes. "Ah, I'm a
fool," he said; "forgive me! I don't know what I'm saying. I'm mad with
disappointment, and grief, and rage. Of course, if she loves you, I never
had a chance. Yet the possibility of giving me one, had you known,
occurred to you. Well, I will show you that I can be as generous as you
are." He held out his hand. "I--I congratulate you," he faltered; "Only,
make her happy. But I know you will."

He felt about for his hat, and, having found it, walked with an uncertain
step toward the door, blinded with tears.

I stood long as he had left me.

  Ah, brother! have you not full oft
  Found, even as the Roman did,
  That in life's most delicious draught
  _Surgit amari aliquid?_

Lady Adeline met me sadly the next time I went to Hamilton House.

"Do you blame me?" I faltered.

"No, oh, no!" she generously responded. "None of us--not one of us--not
even Angelica, suspected for a moment that he was in earnest. It had been
his wolf-cry, you know, all his life. Evadne herself has no inkling of the
truth."

"I hope she never will," I said.

"If it rests with Diavolo, she will not," his mother answered, proud of
him, and with good cause.

It is a salient feature of the Morningquest family history that not one of
them ever had a great grief which they did not make in the long run a
source of joy to other people. Diavolo's first impulse was to go and see
service abroad; but he soon abandoned that idea, although it would have
afforded him the distraction he so sorely needed, and resigned his
commission instead; and then took up his abode at Morne, in order to
devote himself to his grandfather entirely, and it was in Diavolo's
companionship that the latter found the one great pleasure and solace of
his declining years. The old duke had been wont to say of Diavolo at his
worst: "That lad is a gentleman at heart, and, mark my words, he will
prove himself so yet!"

And so he has.

His was the first and loveliest present Evadne received. He did not come
to her second wedding, but, then, nobody else did except his father and
mother, for it pleased us all to keep the ceremony as quiet and private as
possible; so that his absence was not significant; and, afterward, he
rather made a point, if anything, of not avoiding us in any way. In fact,
the only change I noticed in him was that he never again made any of those
laughing protestations of love and devotion to Evadne with which he used
to amuse us all in the dark days of her captivity.


CHAPTER XVIII.


We were married in London, and when the final arrangements were being
discussed, I asked her where she would like to go after the ceremony.

"Oh, let us go home, Don," she said--she insisted on calling me "Don." I
told her the name conveyed no idea to me, but she answered that I was
obtuse, and she was sure I should grow to love it in time, even if I did
not understand it, if it were only because it was _fetish_, and
nobody could use it but herself; to which extent, by the way, I was very
soon able to endorse her opinion. "Don't let us go to nasty foreign
hotels. I hate travelling, and I hate sight-seeing--the kind of
sight-seeing one does for the sake of seeing. We will go home and be
happy. No place could be half so beautiful to me as yours is now."

That she should call it "home" at once, and long to be settled there, was
a good omen, I thought. But she was happy, beyond all possibility of a
doubt, in the anticipation of her life with me.

Soon after our return I took her into Morningquest, and left her to lunch
with her aunt, Mrs. Orton Beg. I had business on the other side of the
city which detained me for some hours, and when at last I could get away,
I hurried back, being naturally impatient to rejoin her. Mrs, Orton Beg
was alone in the drawing room, and I suppose something in the expression
of my face amused her, for she laughed, and answered a question I had not
asked.

"Out there," she said, meaning in the garden.

I turned and looked through the open French window, and instantly that
haunting ghost of an indefinite recollection was laid. Evadne was sleeping
in a high-backed chair, with the creeper-curtained old brick wall for a
background, and half her face concealed by a large summer hat which she
held in her hand.

"I thought you would remember when you saw her so," said Mrs. Orton Beg.
"It was just after that unhappy marriage fiasco. She had run away, and
sought an asylum here, and when you were so struck by her appearance, I
could not help thinking it was a thousand pities that you had not met
before it was too late."

"And then you asked me to use the Scottish gift of second sight--I was
thinking at the moment that she was the kind of girlie I should choose for
a wife, and so I said she should marry a man called George--"

"Which made it doubly a Delphic oracle for vagueness to me," said Mrs.
Orton Beg, "because Colonel Colquhoun's name was also George."

"Now, this is a singular coincidence!" I exclaimed.

"Ah!" she ejaculated. "But I do not talk of 'coincidences'--there is a
special providence, you know."

"Which deserts Edith and protects Evadne?"

"You are incorrigible!"

"You are a demon worshipper! The Infinite Good gives us the knowledge and
power if we will use it. _Evadne_ was a Seventh Wave!"

"'The Seventh Waves of humanity must suffer,' you said." We looked at each
other. "The oracle was ominous. But surely she has suffered enough? Heaven
grant her happiness at last!"

"Amen," I answered fervently.

As soon as we were settled, I tried to order her life so as to take her
mind completely out of the old groove. I kept her constantly out of doors,
and never let her sit and sew alone, for one thing, or lounge in easy
chairs, or do anything else that is enervating.

I made her ride, too, and rise regularly in the morning; not too early,
for that is as injurious in one way as too late is in another; the latter
enervates, but the former exhausts. Regularity is the best discipline. I
taught her also to shoot at a mark, and took her into the coverts in the
autumn; but she could not bear the sight of suffering creatures, and
unfortunately she wounded a bird the first time we were out, and I was
never able to persuade her to shoot at another. However, there was active
exercise enough for her without that, so long as she was able to take it,
and when it became necessary to curtail the amount, she drove both morning
and afternoon, and took short walks and pottered about the grounds in
between times.

I had bought As-You-Like-It while she was abroad with the
Hamilton-Wellses, and had had the whole place pulled down, and the site
converted into a plantation, so that no trace was left of that episode to
vex her. In fact, I had done all that I could think of as likely in any
way to help to re-establish her health, and certainly she was very happy.
Everything I wished her to do seemed to be a pleasure to her; and mind and
body grew rapidly so vigorous that I lost all fear for her. She said she
was a new creature, and she looked it.

When we had been married about a year, Sir Shadwell Rock came to pay us a
visit. So the weather, like human nature, may be suspiciously transparent.
A saintly day may undo you.

A few clouds do not mean rain; but when there are absolutely none,
when even the haze and filmy vapors are suppressed or held back, then
beware.

Then the weather-wise know there are two kinds of clouds, rain-clouds and
wind-clouds, and that the latter are always the most portentous. In summer
they are black as night; they look as if they would blot out the very
earth. They raise a great dust, and set things flying and slamming
for a moment, and that is all. They are the veritable wind-bags of
Æolus. There is something in the look of rain-clouds that is unmistakable,--a
firm, gray, tightly woven look that makes you remember your umbrella. Not
too high nor too low, not black nor blue, but the form and hue of
wet, unbleached linen.

You see the river water in them; they are heavy-laden, and move slow.
Sometimes they develop what are called "mares' tails,"--small cloud-forms
here and there against a heavy background, that look like the stroke of a
brush, or the streaming tail of a charger. Sometimes a few under-clouds
will be combed and groomed by the winds or other meteoric agencies
at work, as if for a race. I have seen coming storms develop well-defined
vertebræ,--a long backbone of cloud, with the articulations and processes
clearly marked.

Any of these forms, changing, growing, denote rain, because they show unusual
agencies at work. The storm is brewing and fermenting. "See those cowlicks,"
said an old farmer, pointing to certain patches on the clouds; "they mean
rain." Another time, he said the clouds were "making bag," had growing
udders, and that it would rain before night, as it did.

This reminded me that the Orientals speak of the clouds as cows which the
winds herd and milk.

In the winter, we see the sun wading in snow.

The morning has perhaps been clear, but in the afternoon a bank of gray
filmy or cirrus cloud meets him in the west, and he sinks deeper
and deeper into it, till, at his going down, his muffled beams
are entirely hidden. Then, on the morrow, _not_
"Announced by all the trumpets of the sky,"
but silent as night, the white legions are here.

The old signs seldom fail,--a red and angry sunrise, or flushed
clouds at evening.

Many a hope of rain have I seen dashed by a painted sky at sunset. There
is truth in the old couplet, too:--
"If it rains before seven, It will clear before eleven."
An old Indian had a sign for winter: "If the wind blows the snow off the
trees, the next storm will be snow; if it rains off, the next storm will
be rain."
Morning rains are usually short-lived. Better wait till ten o'clock.

When the clouds are chilled, they turn blue and rise up.

When the fog leaves the mountains, reaching upward, as if afraid of being
left behind, the fair weather is near.

Shoddy clouds are of little account, and soon fall to pieces. Have your
clouds show a good strong fibre, and have them lined,--not with
silver, but with other clouds of a finer texture,--and have them
wadded.

It wants two or three thicknesses to get up a good rain.

Especially, unless you have that cloud-mother, that dim, filmy, nebulous
mass that has its root in the higher regions of the air, and is
the source and backing of all storms, your rain will be light
indeed.

I fear my reader's jacket is not thoroughly soaked yet.

I must give him a final dash, a "clear-up" shower.

We were encamping in the primitive woods, by a little trout lake which
the mountain carried high on his hip, like a soldier's canteen. There were
wives in the party, curious to know what the lure was that annually
drew their husbands to the woods.

That magical writing on a trout's back they would fain decipher, little
heeding the warning that what is written here is not given to woman
to know.

Our only tent or roof was the sheltering arms of the great birches and
maples.

What was sauce for the gander should be sauce for the goose, too, so the
goose insisted.

A luxurious couch of boughs upon springing poles was prepared, and the night
should be not less welcome than the day, which had indeed been idyllic.
(A trout dinner had been served by a little spring brook, upon an
improvised table covered with moss and decked with ferns, with
strawberries from a near clearing.)

At twilight there was an ominous rumble behind the mountains.

I was on the lake, and could see what was brewing there in the west.

As darkness came on, the rumbling increased, and the mountains and
the woods and the still air were such good conductors of sound that
the ear was vividly impressed.

One seemed to feel the enormous convolutions of the clouds in the
deep and jarring tones of the thunder.

The coming of night in the woods is alone peculiarly impressive, and it is
doubly so when out of the darkness comes such a voice as this. But we fed
the fire the more industriously, and piled the logs high, and kept
the gathering gloom at bay by as large a circle of light as we could
command.

The lake was a pool of ink and as still as if congealed; not a
movement or a sound, save now and then a terrific volley from the
cloud batteries now fast approaching.

By nine o'clock little puffs of wind began to steal through the
woods and tease and toy with our fire.

Shortly after, an enormous electric bombshell exploded in the
treetops over our heads, and the ball was fairly opened.

Then followed three hours, with only two brief intermissions, of as
lively elemental music and as copious an outpouring of rain as it was
ever my lot to witness.
It was a regular meteorological carnival, and the revelers were
drunk with the wild sport.

The apparent nearness of the clouds and the electric explosions was something
remarkable. Every discharge seemed to be in the branches immediately
overhead and made us involuntarily cower, as if the next moment
the great limbs of the trees, or the trees themselves, would come
crashing down.

The mountain upon which we were encamped appeared to be the focus of three
distinct but converging storms. The last two seemed to come into
collision immediately over our camp-fire, and to contend for the right
of way, until the heavens were ready to fall and both antagonists
were literally spent.

We stood in groups about the struggling fire, and when the cannonade became
too terrible would withdraw into the cover of the darkness, as if to be a
less conspicuous mark for the bolts; or did we fear that the fire,
with its currents, might attract the lightning?

At any rate, some other spot than the one where we happened to be standing
seemed desirable when those onsets of the contending elements were the
most furious.

Something that one could not catch in his hat was liable to drop almost
anywhere any minute. The alarm and consternation of the wives communicated
itself to the husbands, and they looked solemn and concerned. The air was
filled with falling water. The sound upon the myriad leaves and branches
was like the roar of a cataract. We put our backs up against the great
trees, only to catch a brook on our shoulders or in the backs of
our necks.

Still the storm waxed. The fire was beaten down lower and lower. It surrendered
one post after another, like a besieged city, and finally made
only a feeble resistance from beneath a pile of charred logs and
branches in the centre.

Our garments yielded to the encroachments of the rain in about the same
manner. I believe my necktie held out the longest, and carried a few dry
threads safely through.

Our cunningly devised and bedecked table, which the housekeepers had so
doted on and which was ready spread for breakfast, was washed as by
the hose of a fire-engine,--only the bare poles remained,--and the couch
of springing boughs, that was to make Sleep jealous and o'er-fond,
became a bed fit only for amphibians.

Still the loosened floods came down; still the great cloud-mortars
bellowed and exploded their missiles in the treetops above us.

But all nervousness finally passed away, and we became dogged and resigned.
Our minds became water-soaked; our thoughts were heavy and bedraggled.
We were past the point of joking at one another's expense. The witticisms
failed to kindle,--indeed, failed to go, like the matches in our
pockets.

About midnight the rain slackened, and by one o'clock ceased entirely.

How the rest of the night was passed beneath the dripping trees and upon
the saturated ground, I have only the dimmest remembrance.

All is watery and opaque; the fog settles down and obscures the
scene.

But I suspect I tried the "wet pack" without being a convert to hydropathy.
When the morning dawned, the wives begged to be taken home, convinced
that the charms of camping-out were greatly overrated.

We, who had tasted this cup before, knew they had read at least a part
of the legend of the wary trout without knowing it.

V
SPECKLED TROUT 

I
The legend of the wary trout, hinted at in the last sketch, is to
be further illustrated in this and some following chapters.

We shall get at more of the meaning of those dark water-lines, and I hope,
also, not entirely miss the significance of the gold and silver spots and
the glancing iridescent hues. The trout is dark and obscure above,
but behind this foil there are wondrous tints that reward the believing
eye. Those who seek him in his wild remote haunts are quite sure to get
the full force of the sombre and uninviting aspects,--the wet, the cold,
the toil, the broken rest, and the huge, savage, uncompromising
nature,--but the true angler sees farther than these, and is never thwarted
of his legitimate reward by them.

I have been a seeker of trout from my boyhood, and on all the expeditions
in which this fish has been the ostensible purpose I have brought home
more game than my creel showed. In fact, in my mature years I find I
got more of nature into me, more of the woods, the wild, nearer to
bird and beast, while threading my native streams for trout, than in
almost any other way. It furnished a good excuse to go forth; it pitched
one in the right key; it sent one through the fat and marrowy places
of field and wood. Then the fisherman has a harmless, preoccupied look;
he is a kind of vagrant that nothing fears. He blends himself with
the trees and the shadows. All his approaches are gentle and
indirect. He times himself to the meandering, soliloquizing stream;
its impulse bears him along.

At the foot of the waterfall he sits sequestered and hidden in its volume
of sound. The birds know he has no designs upon them, and the animals see
that his mind is in the creek.

His enthusiasm anneals him, and makes him pliable to the scenes and
influences he moves among.

Then what acquaintance he makes with the stream! He addresses himself to it
as a lover to his mistress; he wooes it and stays with it till he knows
its most hidden secrets. It runs through his thoughts not less than
through its banks there; he feels the fret and thrust of every bar and
boulder. Where it deepens, his purpose deepens; where it is shallow, he
is indifferent. He knows how to interpret its every glance and dimple; its
beauty haunts him for days.

I am sure I run no risk of overpraising the charm and attractiveness
of a well-fed trout stream, every drop of water in it as bright and pure
as if the nymphs had brought it all the way from its source in crystal
goblets, and as cool as if it had been hatched beneath a glacier. When
the heated and soiled and jaded refugee from the city first sees one, he
feels as if he would like to turn it into his bosom and let it flow through
him a few hours, it suggests such healing freshness and newness. How
his roily thoughts would run clear; how the sediment would go downstream!
Could he ever have an impure or an unwholesome wish afterward? The next
best thing he can do is to tramp along its banks and surrender himself
to its influence. If he reads it intently enough, he will, in a measure,
be taking it into his mind and heart, and experiencing its salutary
ministrations.

Trout streams coursed through every valley my boyhood knew.

I crossed them, and was often lured and detained by them, on my way to and
from school. We bathed in them during the long summer noons, and felt for
the trout under their banks. A holiday was a holiday indeed that brought
permission to go fishing over on Rose's Brook, or up Hardscrabble, or in
Meeker's Hollow; all-day trips, from morning till night, through meadows
and pastures and beechen woods, wherever the shy, limpid stream led. What
an appetite it developed! a hunger that was fierce and aboriginal, and
that the wild strawberries we plucked as we crossed the hill teased rather
than allayed. When but a few hours could be had, gained perhaps by doing
some piece of work about the farm or garden in half the allotted time,
the little creek that headed in the paternal domain was handy; when
half a day was at one's disposal, there were the hemlocks, less
than a mile distant, with their loitering, meditative, log-impeded
stream and their dusky, fragrant depths.

Alert and wide-eyed, one picked his way along, startled now and then by
the sudden bursting-up of the partridge, or by the whistling wings of
the "dropping snipe," pressing through the brush and the briers, or finding
an easy passage over the trunk of a prostrate tree, carefully letting
his hook down through some tangle into a still pool, or standing in some
high, sombre avenue and watching his line float in and out amid the
moss-covered boulders. In my first essayings I used to go to the
edge of these hemlocks, seldom dipping into them beyond the first pool
where the stream swept under the roots of two large trees.
From this point I could look back into the sunlit fields where the cattle
were grazing; beyond, all was gloom and mystery; the trout were
black, and to my young imagination the silence and the shadows were blacker.
But gradually I yielded to the fascination and penetrated the woods farther
and farther on each expedition, till the heart of the mystery was fairly
plucked out.

During the second or third year of my piscatorial experience I went through
them, and through the pasture and meadow beyond, and through another
strip of hemlocks, to where the little stream joined the main creek of the
valley.

In June, when my trout fever ran pretty high, and an auspicious day
arrived, I would make a trip to a stream a couple of miles distant,
that came down out of a comparatively new settlement.

It was a rapid mountain brook presenting many difficult problems to the
young angler, but a very enticing stream for all that, with its
two saw-mill dams, its pretty cascades, its high, shelving rocks
sheltering the mossy nests of the phoebe-bird, and its general wild
and forbidding aspects.

But a meadow brook was always a favorite. The trout like meadows; doubtless
their food is more abundant there, and, usually, the good hiding-places are
more numerous. As soon as you strike a meadow the character of the creek
changes: it goes slower and lies deeper; it tarries to enjoy the high,
cool banks and to half hide beneath them; it loves the willows, or rather
the willows love it and shelter it from the sun; its spring runs
are kept cool by the overhanging grass, and the heavy turf that
faces its open banks is not cut away by the sharp hoofs of the
grazing cattle.

Then there are the bobolinks and the starlings and the meadowlarks, always
interested spectators of the angler; there are also the marsh
marigolds, the buttercups, or the spotted lilies, and the good
angler is always an interested spectator of them.

In fact, the patches of meadow land that lie in the angler's course are like
the happy experiences in his own life, or like the fine passages in the
poem he is reading; the pasture oftener contains the shallow and monotonous
places. In the small streams the cattle scare the fish, and soil their
element and break down their retreats under the banks.

Woodland alternates the best with meadow: the creek loves to burrow
under the roots of a great tree, to scoop out a pool after leaping
over the prostrate trunk of one, and to pause at the foot of a ledge
of moss-covered rocks, with ice-cold water dripping down.

How straight the current goes for the rock!

Note its corrugated, muscular appearance; it strikes and glances
off, but accumulates, deepens with well-defined eddies above and to one
side; on the edge of these the trout lurk and spring upon their prey.

The angler learns that it is generally some obstacle or hindrance that
makes a deep place in the creek, as in a brave life; and his ideal brook
is one that lies in deep, well-defined banks, yet makes many a shift from
right to left, meets with many rebuffs and adventures, hurled back upon
itself by rocks, waylaid by snags and trees, tripped up by precipices,
but sooner or later reposing under meadow banks, deepening and
eddying beneath bridges, or prosperous and strong in some level
stretch of cultivated land with great elms shading it here and
there.

But I early learned that from almost any stream in a trout country the
true angler could take trout, and that the great secret was this, that,
whatever bait you used, worm, grasshopper, grub, or fly, there was one
thing you must always put upon your hook, namely, your heart: when you
bait your hook with your heart the fish always bite; they will jump
clear from the water after it; they will dispute with each other over
it; it is a morsel they love above everything else. With such bait I have
seen the born angler (my grandfather was one) take a noble string of
trout from the most unpromising waters, and on the most unpromising
day. He used his hook so coyly and tenderly, he approached the fish with
such address and insinuation, he divined the exact spot where they
lay: if they were not eager, he humored them and seemed to steal
by them; if they were playful and coquettish, he would suit his
mood to theirs; if they were frank and sincere, he met them halfway;
he was so patient and considerate, so entirely devoted to pleasing
the critical trout, and so successful in his efforts,--surely his
heart was upon his hook, and it was a tender, unctuous heart, too,
as that of every angler is.

How nicely he would measure the distance! how dexterously he would avoid
an overhanging limb or bush and drop the line exactly in the
right spot! Of course there was a pulse of feeling and sympathy to the
extremity of that line. If your heart is a stone, however, or an empty
husk, there is no use to put it upon your hook; it will not tempt
the fish; the bait must be quick and fresh. Indeed, a certain quality
of youth is indispensable to the successful angler, a certain unworldliness
and readiness to invest yourself in an enterprise that doesn't pay in the
current coin. Not only is the angler, like the poet, born and not made,
as Walton says, but there is a deal of the poet in him, and he is
to be judged no more harshly; he is the victim of his genius: those
wild streams, how they haunt him!

he will play truant to dull care, and flee to them; their waters impart
somewhat of their own perpetual youth to him. My grandfather when he was
eighty years old would take down his pole as eagerly as any boy, and step
off with wonderful elasticity toward the beloved streams; it used to try
my young legs a good deal to follow him, specially on the return
trip.

And no poet was ever more innocent of worldly success or ambition. For, to
paraphrase Tennyson,--

"Lusty trout to him were scrip and share, And babbling waters more
than cent for cent."

He laid up treasures, but they were not in this world. In fact, though the
kindest of husbands, I fear he was not what the country people call a "good
provider," except in providing trout in their season, though it is doubtful
if there was always fat in the house to fry them in. But he could tell you
they were worse off than that at Valley Forge, and that trout, or
any other fish, were good roasted in the ashes under the coals.

He had the Walton requisite of loving quietness and contemplation,
and was devout withal.

Indeed, in many ways he was akin to those Galilee fishermen who were
called to be fishers of men. How he read the Book and pored over it,
even at times, I suspect, nodding over it, and laying it down only to
take up his rod, over which, unless the trout were very dilatory
and the journey very fatiguing, he never nodded!

II
The Delaware is one of our minor rivers, but it is a stream beloved
of the trout.

Mrs. Kilroy of Ilverthorpe, otherwise known to her friends as Angelica,
was one of the first people privileged to see the baby.

"Oh, you queer little thing!" she exclaimed, pointing her finger at it by
way of caress. "I've been thinking all this time that babies were always
Speckled Toads. And you are all rosy, and dimpled, and plump, you pretty
thing! I wish I had just a dozen like you!"

Poor erratic Angelica, with all her waywardness, "but yet a woman!" There
was only the one man that I have ever known who could have developed the
best that was in Angelica, and him she had just missed, as so often
happens in this world of contraries. I am thinking of our poor Julian,
known to her as the Tenor, whom she had met when it was too late, and in
an evil hour for us and for herself apparently, the consequences having
been his death and her own desolation. Yet I don't know. Those were the
first consequences certainly, but others followed and are following. The
memory of one good man is a light which sheds the brightest rays that fall
on the lives of thousands--as Mr. Kilroy has reason to know; with whom,
after the Tenor, Angelica is happier than she could have been with any
other man. And then, again, she has Diavolo. The close friendship between
them, which had been interrupted for some years, was renewed again in some
inexplicable way by the effect of my marriage on Diavolo, and since then
they have been as inseparable as their respective duties to husband and
grandfather allow. And so the web of life is woven, the puzzling strands
resolving themselves out of what has seemed to be a hopeless tangle into
the most beautiful designs.

Some of Evadne's ideas of life were considerably enlarged in view of the
boy's future.

"I am so glad you are a rich man," she said to me one day, "and have a
title and all that. It doesn't matter for you, you know, Don, because you
_are_ you. But it will give the baby such a start in life."

She summoned me at a very early period of his existence to choose a name
for him, and having decided upon George Shadwell Beton, she had him
christened with all orthodox ceremony by the Bishop of Morningquest as
soon as possible. That duty once accomplished must have relieved her mind
satisfactorily with regard to a _Christian_ name for him, for she has
insisted on calling him by the heathen appellation of Donino ever since,
for the flattering reason that his temper when thwarted is exactly like
mine.

"I am sure when you were his age you used to kick and scream just as he
does when his wishes are not carried out on the instant," she said. "You
don't kick and scream now when you are vexed; you look like thunder, and
walk out of the room."

"Baby seems to afford you infinite satisfaction when he kicks and screams.
You laugh and hug him more, if anything, in his tantrums than when he is
good," I remarked.

"I take his tantrums for a sign of strength," she answered. "He is merely
standing on his dignity, and demanding his rights as a rule. It was the
same thing with his father when he frowned and walked out of the room. He
wouldn't be sat upon either, and I used to see in that a sign of
self-respect also. It is a long time now since I saw you frown and walk
out of the room, Don."

"It is a long time since you attempted to sit upon me," I said.

"I am afraid I neglect you," she answered apologetically; "you see, Donino
requires so much of my time."

She continued to be cheerful for months after the birth of the boy, and we
waited patiently for some sign which should be an assurance of her
complete restoration to mental health; or, so far as I was concerned, for
an opportunity of testing her present feeling about the subject that
distressed her. I had given up expecting a miraculous cure in a moment,
and now only hoped for a gradual change for the better.

The opportunity I was waiting for came one winter's afternoon when she was
playing with the baby. It was a moment of leisure with me, the afternoon
tea-time, which I always arranged to spend with her if possible, and
especially if she would otherwise have been alone, as was the case on this
occasion.

I had been responding for half an hour, as well as I could, to incessant
appeals for sympathy and admiration--not that I found it difficult to
admire the boy, who was certainly a splendid specimen of the human race,
although perhaps I ought not to say so; but my command of language never
answered his mother's expectations, somehow, when it came to expressing my
feelings.

"Do you think you care as much for him as I do, Don?" she burst out at
last.

"More," I answered seriously.

"Why? How?" she demanded, surprised by my tone.

"Because I never could have hurt him."

"Hurt him!" she exclaimed, gathering him up in her arms. "Do you mean that
I could hurt him! hurt my baby! Oh!" She got up and stood looking at me
indignantly for a few seconds with the child's face hidden against her
neck; and then she rang the bell sharply, and sent him away.

"What do you mean, Don?" she said, when we were alone together again.
"Tell me? You would not say a cruel thing like that for nothing."

"I am referring to that night before he was born," I said, taking the
little bottle from my pocket. This seems to me to have been the cruellest
operation that I have ever had to perform.

"O Don!" she cried, greatly distressed. "I understand I should have killed
him. But why, why do you remind me of that now?"

"I want to be quite sure that you have learnt what a mistaken notion that
was, and that you regret the impulse."

She sat down on a low chair before the fire, with her elbows on her knees
and her face buried in her hands, and remained so for some time. She
wanted to think it out, and tell me exactly.

"I do not feel any regret," she said at last. "I would not do the same
thing now, but it is only because I am not now occupied with the same
thoughts. They have fallen into the background of my consciousness, and I
no longer perceive the utility of self-sacrifice."

"But do you not perceive the sin of suicide?"

"Not of that kind of suicide," she answered. "You see, we have the divine
example. Christ committed suicide to all intents and purposes by
deliberately putting himself into the hands of his executioners; but his
motive makes _them_ responsible for the crime; and my motive would
place society in a similar position."

"Your view of the great sacrifice would startle theologians, I imagine,"
was my answer. "But, even allowing that Christ was morally responsible for
his own death, and thereby set the example you would have followed to save
others from suffering; tell me, do you really see any comparison between
an act which had the redemption of the world for its object and the only
result that could follow from, the sacrifice of one little mother and
child?"

"What result, Don?"

"Breaking your husband's heart, spoiling his life, and leaving him lonely
forever."

She started up and threw herself on her knees beside me, clasping her
hands about my neck.

"O Don, don't say that again!" she cried, "Don't say anything like that
again--ever--will you?"

"You know I should never think of it again if I could be sure--"

She hid her head upon my shoulder, but did not answer immediately.

"I am seeking for some assurance in myself to give you," she said at last;
"but I feel none. The same train of thought would provoke me again--no,
not to the same act, but to something desperate; I can't tell what. But I
suffer so, Don, when such thoughts come, from grief, and rage, and horror,
I would do almost anything for relief."

"But just think--" I began,

"No, don't ask me to think!" she interrupted. "All my endeavour is not to
think. Let me live on the surface of life, as most women do. I will do
nothing but attend to my household duties and the social duties of my
position. I will read nothing that is not first weeded by you of every
painful thought that might remind me. I will play with my baby by day, and
curl up comfortably beside you at night, infinitely grateful and content
to be so happily circumstanced myself--Don, help me to that kind of life,
will you? And burn the books. Let me deserve my name and be 'well pleasing
one' to you first of all the world, and then to any with whom I may come
in contact. Let me live while you live, and die when you die. But do not
ask me to think. I can be the most docile, the most obedient, the most
loving of women as long as I forget my knowledge of life; but the moment I
remember I become a raging fury; I have no patience with slow processes;
'Revolution' would be my cry, and I could preside with an awful joy at the
execution of those who are making the misery now for succeeding
generations."

"But, my dear child, it would surely be happier for you to try to
alleviate--"

"No, no," she again interrupted. "I know all you can say on that score;
but I cannot bear to be brought into contact with certain forms of
suffering. I cannot bear the contradictions of life; they make me rage."

"What I want to say is that you should act, and not think," I ventured.

"How can I act without thinking?" she asked.

"You see, if you don't act you must think," I pursued; "and if you do
think without acting, you become morbid. The conditions of an educated
woman's life now force her to know the world. She is too intelligent not
to reason about what she knows. She sees what is wrong; and if she is
high-minded she feels forced to use her influence to combat it. If she
resists the impulse her conscience cannot acquit her, and she suffers
herself for her cowardice."

"I know," she answered. "But don't let us discuss the subject any more."

We were silent for some time after that, and then I made a move as if to
speak, but checked myself.

"What is it?" she asked.

"I was going to ask you to do something to oblige me; but now I do not
like to."

"Oh!" she exclaimed, much hurt; "do you really think there is anything I
would not do for you, if I could?"

"Well, this is mere trifle," I answered. "I want you to take that sturdy
much be-ribboned darling of yours to see my poor sick souls in the
hospital. A sight of his small face would cheer them. Will you?"

"Why, _surely_," she said. "How _could_ you doubt it? I shall be
delighted."

"And there was another thing--"

"Oh, don't hesitate like that," she exclaimed. "You can't think how you
hurt me."

"I very much wish you would take charge of the flowers in the hospital for
me, that was what I was going to say, I should be so pleased if you should
make them your special care. If you would cut them yourself, and take them
and arrange them whenever fresh ones are wanted, you would be giving me as
much pleasure as the patients. And you might say something kind to them as
you pass through the wards. Even a word makes all the difference in their
day."

"Why didn't you ask me to do this before?" she said, reproachfully.

"I was a little afraid of asking you now," I answered.

"I shall begin to-morrow," she said. "Tell me the best time for me to go?"

There is a great deal in the way a thing is put, was my trite reflection
afterward. If I had given Evadne my reason for particularly wishing her to
visit the hospital, she would have turned it inside out to show me that it
was lined with objections; but, now, because I had asked her to oblige me
simply, she was ready to go; and would have gone if had cost her half her
comfort in life. This was a great step in advance. As in the small-pox
epidemic, so now at the hospital, she had no horror of anything she
_saw_. It was always what she imagined that made her morbid.


CHAPTER XIX.


Following these days there came a time of perfect peace for both of us,
Evadne's health was satisfactory; she led the life she had planned for
herself; and so long as she shut out all thought of the wicked world and
nothing occurred to remind her of the "awful needless suffering" with
which she had become acquainted in the past, she was tranquilly happy.

Donino rapidly grew out of arms. He was an independent young rascal from
the first, and would never be carried if he could walk, or driven from the
moment he could sit a pony--grip is the word, I know, but his legs were
not long enough to grip when he began, and his rides were therefore
conducted all over the pony's back at first. His object was to keep on,
and in order to do so without the assistance he scorned, he rode like a
monkey.

Evadne was proud of the boy, but she missed the baby, and complained that
her arms were empty. It was not long, however, happily,--and _à
propos_ of the number of my responsibilities, I was taken to task
severely one day, and discovered that I had in my son a staunch supporter
and a counsellor whose astuteness was not to be despised.

I was finishing my letters one afternoon in the library when Evadne came
in with her daughter in her arms, and Donino clinging to her skirt. I
expected the usual "Don, I am sure you have done enough. Come and have
some tea," and turned to meet it with the accustomed protest; "Just five
minutes more, my sweetheart." But Evadne began in quite another tone.

"I have just heard such a _disgraceful_ thing about you," she said.

"A disgraceful thing about me!" I exclaimed.

"Yes. I hear you were asked the other day how many children you had, and
you answered '_Two or three!_' Now, will you kindly count your
children, and when you are quite sure you know the number off by heart,
repeat it aloud to me, so that I may have some hope that you will not
commit yourself in that way again."

"Oh," I answered, "I know how many _babies_ there are; my difficulty
is about you. I am never quite sure whether to count you as a child or
not."

"Now, I call that a mean little score," she said, carrying her baby off
with an affectation of indignation which deceived Donino.

He had been standing with his back to the writing table and his feet
firmly planted before him, gravely watching us, and now when his mother
left the room he came to my knee and looked up at me confidentially.

"Ou bin naughty, dad?" he asked.

"It looks like it," I answered.

"Ou say ou sorry," he advised.

"What will happen then?" I wanted to know.

"Den de missus 'ill kiss ou," he explained. "Den _dat_ all right."

"Truly 'a wise son maketh a glad father,'" I observed.

Donino knitted his brows, and grumbled a puzzled but polite assent. I saw
signs of reflection afterward, however, which warned me not to be too sure
that I knew exactly where the limits of the little understanding were. But
one thing was evident. The boy was being educated on the principle of
repent and have done with it. Old accounts are not cast up in this
establishment.

Donino watched me putting my writing things away; he was waiting to see me
through my trouble. When I was ready, he took as much of my hand as he
could hold in his, protectingly, and led me to the drawing room with a
dignified air of importance. Sir Shadwell Rock was staying with us at the
time, and my daughter was creeping from her mother to him as we entered
the room, and receiving a large share of his attention. Donino glanced at
him, fearing, perhaps, that his presence as audience would make matters
more unpleasant for me.

"Mumme," he said, "dad's turn."

Evadne looked up inquiringly.

"I've come to say I am sorry," I exclaimed.

"Oh," said Evadne, a little puzzled, "that's right."

Donino looked from one to the other expectantly; but as his mother made no
move, he edged up to her side, and repeated with emphasis: "Dad's sorry."

"That's right," his mother answered, putting her arm round him, and
caressing him fondly.

He drew away from her dissatisfied, and walked to the window, where he
stood, with his thumbs in his belt, and his chin on his chest.

"O Don," Evadne whispered, "do look at yourself in miniature! But what is
the matter? What have I done to disturb him? or left undone?"

"I said I was sorry, and you haven't kissed me," I replied.

Evadne grasped the situation at last, and got up.

"I suppose I must kiss you," she said. "I hope you won't be naughty
again."

The boy made no sign at the moment, but presently he sauntered back to the
tea-table as if he were satisfied.

When the children were gone Sir Shadwell asked for an explanation.

"It is beautiful to watch the mind of a young child unfold," he observed;
"to notice its wonderful grasp, on the one hand, of ideas one would have
thought quite beyond its comprehension, and, on the other, its curious
limitations. Now, that boy of yours reasons already from what he
observes."

"Clearly," I answered. "He observes that my position in this house is
quite secondary, and therefore, although he sees his mother 'naughty'
every day, he never thinks for a moment of suggesting that she should 'own
up' to me."

In our Prospectus and opening address we made no great promise of
what our paper should be.

That, we knew, must depend upon how far the medium of intercommunication
we had prepared should be approved and adopted by those for whose
special use it had been projected.

We laid down a literary railway: it remained to be seen whether the
world of letters would travel by it.

They have done so: we have been especially patronised by first-class passengers,
and in such numbers that we were obliged last week to run an extra
train.

It is obvious that the use of a paper like "NOTES AND QUERIES" bears a direct
proportion to the extent of its circulation. What it aims at
doing is, to reach the learning which lies scattered not only throughout
every part of our own country, but all over the literary world, and to
bring it all to bear upon the pursuits of the scholar; to enable, in
short, men of letters all over the world to give a helping hand to one
another. To a certain extent, we have accomplished this end.

Our last number contains communications not only from all parts of
the metropolis, and from almost every county in England, but also
from Scotland, Ireland, Holland, and even from Demerara.

This looks well. It seems as if we were in a fair way to accomplish
our design. But much yet remains to be done. We have recently been told
of whole districts in England so benighted as never to have heard of
"NOTES AND QUERIES;" and after an interesting question has been
discussed for weeks in our columns, we are informed of some one who
could have answered it immediately if he had seen it.

So long as this is the case the advantage we may confer upon literature
and literary men is necessarily imperfect.
Her ladyship seemed to be
poorly."

I ran upstairs to my wife's sitting room. She was lying on a couch asleep,
her face gray, her eyelids swollen and purple with weeping, her hair
disordered. As I stood looking down at her, she opened her eyes and held
up her arms to me. She looked ten years older, a mere wreck of the
healthy, happy, smiling woman who had driven off kissing her hand to us
only a few hours before.

"Tell me the trouble, my sweetheart," I said, kneeling down beside her.
"Where did you go to-day?"

"Only to Mrs. Guthrie Brimston," she answered. "But Mrs. Beale was there
with Edith's boy, and we talked--O Don!" she broke off. "I wish my
children had never been born! The suffering! the awful needless suffering!
How do I know that they will escape?"

Alas! alas! that terrible cry again, and just after we had allowed
ourselves to be sure that it had been silenced at last forever.

I did not reason with her this time. I could only pet her, and talk for
the purpose of distracting her attention, as one does with a child. So
far, I had never for a moment lost heart and hope. I could not believe
that the balance of her fine intelligence had been too rudely shaken ever
to be perfectly restored; but now at last it seemed as if her confidence
in her fellow-creatures, the source of all mental health, had been
destroyed forever, and with that confidence her sense of the value of life
and of her own obligations had been also injured or distorted to a degree
which could not fail to be dangerous on occasion. There are injuries which
set up carcinoma of the mind, we know, cancer spots confined to a small
area at first, but gradually extending with infinite pain until all the
surrounding healthy tissue is more or less involved, and the whole
beautiful fabric is absorbed in the morbid growth, for which there is no
certain palliative in time, and no possible prospect of cure except in
eternity. Was this to be Evadne's case? Alas! alas! But, still, doctors
sometimes mistake the symptoms, and find happily that they have erred when
they arrived at an unfavourable diagnosis. So I said to myself, but the
assurance in no way affected the despair which had settled upon my heart,
and was crushing it.

Late that night I was sitting alone in my study. I had been reading
Solomon's prayer at the dedication of the temple, and the book still lay
open before me. It was a habit of mine to read the Bible when I was much
perturbed. III. In the recitation, translation should be reduced to a
minimum, thus allowing a maximum of time for conversation based upon the
text. There should also be considerable blackboard work consisting of the
questions and answers that were given orally. Repetition of answers by the
entire class as well as chorus reading are also profitable. After the
reading selection has been thoroughly mastered, oral and written
résumés should be given by the pupils.
The authors wish to thank the firm of A. P.I must have dozed a moment, I think, when I had pronounced the words, for
I had heard no rustle of trailing garments in the library beyond, yet the
next thing I was conscious of was Evadne kneeling beside me. She put her
arms round my neck, and drew my face down to her.

"Don," she said, with a great dry sob, "I am sorry. I have annoyed you
somehow--"

"Not annoyed me, my wife."

"Hurt you then, which is worse. I have taken all the heart out of
you--somehow--I can see that. But I cannot--cannot tell what it is I have
done." She looked into my face piteously, and then hid her own on my
shoulder, and burst into a paroxysm of sobs and tears.

If only I could have made her comprehend what the trouble was! But there!
I _had_ tried, and I had failed.

One little white foot peeped out from beneath her dressing gown, the pink
sole showing. She had got out of bed and slipped on her _pantoufles_
only, and the night was cold. The Planchette, as everybody knows, and
as I didn't know myself till I saw it, is a wooden heart that runs on
two hind wheels, and has a pencil stuck through the centre of its apex.
The Medium gracefully places her hand upon the heart, which after an interval
of Quaker-like meditation begins to write, as abruptly as a Quaker
is moved by the Spirit, and as abruptly finishes.

AUTHOR. "What do I want to do early to-morrow morning?"

What was in his mind was: "Send a wire to Manchester.""So long
as you will let me be a comfort to you, you will not be able to hurt me
again; but if at any time you will not listen to my words, if nothing I
can do or say strengthens or helps you, if I cannot keep you from the evil
that it may not grieve you, then I shall know that I have lost all that
makes life worth having, and I shall not care how soon this lamp of mine
goes out."

She looked up at me in a strange startled way, and then she clung closer;
and I thought she meant that, if she could help it, I should not lose the
little all I ask for now--the power to make her life endurable.


THE END.