How surprised they were to see what they thought was an Indian child
with their companions!  How did it happen?  What was to be done with
her?

I do not think the style of the poem on the Order, though it belongs
to a good period, justifies our ascribing it to so inspired and genial
a lyrist.

The argument runs as follows. Just as commission was given to the Apostles
to go forth and preach in the whole world, so have the Wandering
Students a vocation to travel, and to test the hearts of men wherever
they may sojourn. A burlesque turn is given to this function of
the _Vagi_.

Yet their consciousness of a satiric mission, their willingness to pose
as critics of society from the independent vantage-ground of vagabondage,
seems seriously hinted at.

The chief part of the song is devoted to a description of the
comprehensive nature of the Order, which receives all sorts and
conditions of men, and makes no distinction of nationality.It is to bring me good."

"May I see it?"  The man's voice was so kind that it filled Timid Hare
with perfect trust.

"You will--help me?"  The child's eyes were full of pleading.

"Yes, little one."

Slowly Timid Hare drew forth the sock.  It was faded and soiled, yet
the pattern in which the silk had been woven into the worsted was quite
plain.

"How did--Why, tell me at once how you got this."  The man's voice was
half stern, half pleading.

"It was--so."  With this beginning Timid Hare repeated the story as
White Mink had told it to her.  Many a time she had since told it to
herself during her hard life with The Stone.  It was such a strange
story--so full of wonder to her still.  The wonder of it was in her
voice even now.

The man listened with half-closed eyes, but saying never a word till
she finished.  Then, as in a dream, he said in a low tone: "It is my
baby's sock--the pattern is one planned by my dear wife Alice who died
out on this lonely prairie.  And then--the sudden attack of the
Dahcotas--and I made prisoner, while my baby Alice was left behind to
perish.  To the rest of the world they are a terror and a nuisance.

Honest folk are jeeringly forbidden to beware of the _quadrivium_,
which is apt to form a fourfold rogue instead of a scholar in four
branches of knowledge.

The Latin metre is so light, careless, and airy, that I must admit an
almost complete failure to do it justice in my English version.

The refrain appears intended to imitate a bugle-call.

A SONG OF THE OPEN ROAD.

No. 4.
We in our wandering, Blithesome and squandering, Tara, tantara,
teino!And she--well, the little girl rested there content and happy.

The next minute the rest of the party who had been out exploring,
entered the tent with word that the start must be made at once.  The
clouds of the night before had lifted; the snow might not begin falling
for several hours, and the most must be made of the morning towards
reaching a larger camp where sledges would carry them a long ways
towards a fur station.

Great was the joy of the others when they learned the good fortune that
had come to their friend, and merry was the whole party as it made its
way onward.  So may God translate your soul Into peace eternal, And the
bliss of saints be yours In His realm supernal.

The second is a jovial _Song of the Open Road_, throbbing with the
exhilaration of young life and madcap impudence.And he promised gladly.