"You are sounder than any of us. This is a trifling disturbance, and
you know that you have the remedy in your own hands. Use your
hypodermic injection."

Pascal did not allow him to finish. This filled the measure of his
rage. He angrily asked if they wished him to kill himself, as he had
killed Lafouasse. His injections! A pretty invention, of which he had
good reason to be proud. He abjured medicine, and he swore that he
would never again go near a patient. When people were no longer good
for anything they ought to die; that would be the best thing for
everybody. And that was what he was going to try to do, so as to have
done with it all.

"Bah! bah!" said Ramond at last, resolving to take his leave, through
fear of exciting him still further; "I will leave you with Clotilde; I
am not at all uneasy, Clotilde will take care of you."

But Pascal had on this morning received the final blow. He took to his
bed toward evening, and remained for two whole days without opening
the door of his room. It was in vain that Clotilde, at last becoming
alarmed, knocked loudly at the door. There was no answer. Martine went
in her turn and begged monsieur, through the keyhole, at least to tell
her if he needed anything. A deathlike silence reigned; the room
seemed to be empty.

Then, on the morning of the third day, as the young girl by chance
turned the knob, the door yielded; perhaps it had been unlocked for
hours. And she might enter freely this room in which she had never set
foot: a large room, rendered cold by its northern exposure, in which
she saw a small iron bed without curtains, a shower bath in a corner,
a long black wooden table, a few chairs, and on the table, on the
floor, along the walls, an array of chemical apparatus, mortars,
furnaces, machines, instrument cases. Pascal, up and dressed, was
sitting on the edge of his bed, in trying to arrange which he had
exhausted himself.

"Don't you want me to nurse you, then?" she asked with anxious
tenderness, without venturing to advance into the room.

"Oh, you can come in," he said with a dejected gesture. "I won't beat
you. I have not the strength to do that now."

And from this day on he tolerated her about him, and allowed her to
wait on him. But he had caprices still. He would not let her enter the
room when he was in bed, possessed by a sort of morbid shame; then he
made her send him Martine. But he seldom remained in bed, dragging
himself about from chair to chair, in his utter inability to do any
kind of work. His malady continued to grow worse, until at last he was
reduced to utter despair, tortured by sick headaches, and without the
strength, as he said, to put one foot before the other, convinced
every morning that he would spend the night at the Tulettes, a raving
maniac. He grew thin; his face, under its crown of white hair--which
he still cared for through a last remnant of vanity--acquired a look
of suffering, of tragic beauty. And although he allowed himself to be
waited on, he refused roughly all remedies, in the distrust of
medicine into which he had fallen.

Clotilde now devoted herself to him entirely. She gave up everything
else; at first she attended low mass, then she left off going to
church altogether. In her impatience for some certain happiness, she
felt as if she were taking a step toward that end by thus devoting all
her moments to the service of a beloved being whom she wished to see
once more well and happy. She made a complete sacrifice of herself,
she sought to find happiness in the happiness of another; and all this
unconsciously, solely at the impulse of her woman's heart, in the
midst of the crisis through which she was still passing, and which was
modifying her character profoundly, without her knowledge. She
remained silent regarding the disagreement which separated them. The
idea did not again occur to her to throw herself on his neck, crying
that she was his, that he might return to life, since she gave herself
to him. In her thoughts she grieved to see him suffer; she was only an
affectionate girl, who took care of him, as any female relative would
have done. And her attentions were very pure, very delicate, occupying
her life so completely that her days now passed swiftly, exempt from
tormenting thoughts of the Beyond, filled with the one wish of curing
him.

But where she had a hard battle to fight was in prevailing upon him to
use his hypodermic injections upon himself. He flew into a passion,
disowned his discovery, and called himself an imbecile. She too cried
out. It was she now who had faith in science, who grew indignant at
seeing him doubt his own genius. He resisted for a long time; then
yielding to the empire which she had acquired over him, he consented,
simply to avoid the affectionate dispute which she renewed with him
every morning. From the very first he experienced great relief from
the injections, although he refused to acknowledge it. His mind became
clearer, and he gradually gained strength. Then she was exultant,
filled with enthusiastic pride in him. She vaunted his treatment, and
became indignant because he did not admire himself, as an example of
the miracles which he was able to work. He smiled; he was now
beginning to see clearly into his own condition. Ramond had spoken
truly, his illness had been nothing but nervous exhaustion. Perhaps he
would get over it after all.

"Ah, it is you who are curing me, little girl," he would say, not
wishing to confess his hopes. "Medicines, you see, act according to
the hand that gives them."

The convalescence was slow, lasting through the whole of February. The
weather remained clear and cold; there was not a single day in which
the study was not flooded with warm, pale sunshine. There were hours
of relapse, however, hours of the blackest melancholy, in which all
the patient's terrors returned; when his guardian, disconsolate, was
obliged to sit at the other end of the room, in order not to irritate
him still more. He despaired anew of his recovery. He became again
bitter and aggressively ironical.

It was on one of those bad days that Pascal, approaching a window, saw
his neighbor, M. Bellombre, the retired professor, making the round of
his garden to see if his fruit trees were well covered with blossoms.
The sight of the old man, so neat and so erect, with the fine
placidity of the egoist, on whom illness had apparently never laid
hold, suddenly put Pascal beside himself.

"Ah!" he growled, "there is one who will never overwork himself, who
will never endanger his health by worrying!"

And he launched forth into an ironical eulogy on selfishness. To be
alone in the world, not to have a friend, to have neither wife nor
child, what happiness! That hard-hearted miser, who for forty years
had had only other people's children to cuff, who lived aloof from the
world, without even a dog, with a deaf and dumb gardener older than
himself, was he not an example of the greatest happiness possible on
earth? Without a responsibility, without a duty, without an anxiety,
other than that of taking care of his dear health! He was a wise man,
he would live a hundred years.

"Ah, the fear of life! that is cowardice which is truly the best
wisdom. To think that I should ever have regretted not having a child
of my own! Has any one a right to bring miserable creatures into the
world? Bad heredity should be ended, life should be ended. The only
honest man is that old coward there!"

M. Bellombre continued peacefully making the round of his pear trees
in the March sunshine. He did not risk a too hasty movement; he
economized his fresh old age. If he met a stone in his path, he pushed
it aside with the end of his cane, and then walked tranquilly on.

"Look at him! Is he not well preserved; is he not handsome? Have not
all the blessings of heaven been showered down upon him? He is the
happiest man I know."

Clotilde, who had listened in silence, suffered from the irony of
Pascal, the full bitterness of which she divined. She, who usually
took M. Bellombre's part, felt a protest rise up within her. Tears
came to her eyes, and she answered simply in a low voice:

"Yes; but he is not loved."

These words put a sudden end to the painful scene. Pascal, as if he
had received an electric shock, turned and looked at her. A sudden
rush of tenderness brought tears to his eyes also, and he left the
room to keep from weeping.

The days wore on in the midst of these alternations of good and bad
hours. He recovered his strength but slowly, and what put him in
despair was that whenever he attempted to work he was seized by a
profuse perspiration. If he had persisted, he would assuredly have
fainted. So long as he did not work he felt that his convalescence was
making little progress. He began to take an interest again, however,
in his accustomed investigations. He read over again the last pages
that he had written, and, with this reawakening of the scientist in
him, his former anxieties returned. At one time he fell into a state
of such depression, that the house and all it contained ceased to
exist for him. He might have been robbed, everything he possessed
might have been taken and destroyed, without his even being conscious
of the disaster. Now he became again watchful, from time to time he
would feel his pocket, to assure himself that the key of the press was
there.

But one morning when he had overslept himself, and did not leave his
room until eleven o'clock, he saw Clotilde in the study, quietly
occupied in copying with great exactness in pastel a branch of
flowering almond. She looked up, smiling; and taking a key that was
lying beside her on the desk, she offered it to him, saying:

"Here, master."

Surprised, not yet comprehending, he looked at the object which she
held toward him.

"What is that?" he asked.

"It is the key of the press, which you must have dropped from your
pocket yesterday, and which I picked up here this morning."

Pascal took it with extraordinary emotion. He looked at it, and then
at Clotilde. Was it ended, then? She would persecute him no more. She
was no longer eager to rob everything, to burn everything. And seeing
her still smiling, she also looking moved, an immense joy filled his
heart.

He caught her in his arms, crying:

"Ah, little girl, if we might only not be too unhappy!"

Then he opened a drawer of his table and threw the key into it, as he
used to do formerly.

From this time on he gained strength, and his convalescence progressed
more rapidly. Relapses were still possible, for he was still very
weak. But he was able to write, and this made the days less heavy. The
sun, too, shone more brightly, the study being so warm at times that
it became necessary to half close the shutters. He refused to see
visitors, barely tolerated Martine, and had his mother told that he
was sleeping, when she came at long intervals to inquire for him. He
was happy only in this delightful solitude, nursed by the rebel, the
enemy of yesterday, the docile pupil of to-day. They would often sit
together in silence for a long time, without feeling any constraint.
They meditated, or lost themselves in infinitely sweet reveries.

One day, however, Pascal seemed very grave. He was now convinced that
his illness had resulted from purely accidental causes, and that
heredity had had no part in it. But this filled him none the less with
humility.

"My God!" he murmured, "how insignificant we are! I who thought myself
so strong, who was so proud of my sane reason! And here have I barely
escaped being made insane by a little trouble and overwork!"

He was silent, and sank again into thought. After a time his eyes
brightened, he had conquered himself. And in a moment of reason and
courage, he came to a resolution.

"If I am getting better," he said, "it is especially for your sake
that I am glad."

Clotilde, not understanding, looked up and said:

"How is that?"

"Yes, on account of your marriage. Now you will be able to fix the
day."

She still seemed surprised.

"Ah, true--my marriage!"

"Shall we decide at once upon the second week in June?"

"Yes, the second week in June; that will do very well."

They spoke no more; she fixed her eyes again on the piece of sewing on
which she was engaged, while he, motionless, and with a grave face,
sat looking into space.


                                 VII.

On this day, on arriving at La Souleiade, old Mme. Rougon perceived
Martine in the kitchen garden, engaged in planting leeks; and, as she
sometimes did, she went over to the servant to have a chat with her,
and find out from her how things were going on, before entering the
house.

For some time past she had been in despair about what she called
Clotilde's desertion. She felt truly that she would now never obtain
the documents through her. The girl was behaving disgracefully, she
was siding with Pascal, after all she had done for her; and she was
becoming perverted to such a degree that for a month past she had not
been seen in Church. Thus she returned to her first idea, to get
Clotilde away and win her son over when, left alone, he should be
weakened by solitude. Since she had not been able to persuade the girl
to go live with her brother, she eagerly desired the marriage. She
would like to throw her into Dr. Ramond's arms to-morrow, in her
impatience at so many delays. And she had come this afternoon with a
feverish desire to hurry on matters.

"Good-day, Martine. How is every one here?"

The servant, kneeling down, her hands full of clay, lifted up her pale
face, protected against the sun by a handkerchief tied over her cap.

"As usual, madame, pretty well."

They went on talking, Felicite treating her as a confidante, as a
devoted daughter, one of the family, to whom she could tell
everything. She began by questioning her; she wished to know if Dr.
Ramond had come that morning. He had come, but they had talked only
about indifferent matters. This put her in despair, for she had seen
the doctor on the previous day, and he had unbosomed himself to her,
chagrined at not having yet received a decisive answer, and eager now
to obtain at least Clotilde's promise. Things could not go on in this
way, the young girl must be compelled to engage herself to him.

"He has too much delicacy," she cried. "I have told him so. I knew
very well that this morning, even, he would not venture to demand a
positive answer. And I have come to interfere in the matter. We shall
see if I cannot oblige her to come to a decision."

Then, more calmly:

"My son is on his feet now; he does not need her."

Martine, who was again stooping over the bed, planting her leeks,
straightened herself quickly.

"Ah, that for sure!"

And a flush passed over her face, worn by thirty years of service. For
a wound bled within her; for some time past the master scarcely
tolerated her about him. During the whole time of his illness he had
kept her at a distance, accepting her services less and less every
day, and finally closing altogether to her the door of his room and of
the workroom. She had a vague consciousness of what was taking place,
an instinctive jealousy tortured her, in her adoration of the master,
whose chattel she had been satisfied to be for so many years.

"For sure, we have no need of mademoiselle. I am quite able to take
care of monsieur."

Then she, who was so discreet, spoke of her labors in the garden,
saying that she made time to cultivate the vegetables, so as to save a
few days' wages of a man. True, the house was large, but when one was
not afraid of work, one could manage to do all there was to be done.
And then, when mademoiselle should have left them, that would be
always one less to wait upon. And her eyes brightened unconsciously at
the thought of the great solitude, of the happy peace in which they
should live after this departure.

"It would give me pain," she said, lowering her voice, "for it would
certainly give monsieur a great deal. I would never have believed that
I could be brought to wish for such a separation. Only, madame, I
agree with you that it is necessary, for I am greatly afraid that
mademoiselle will end by going to ruin here, and that there will be
another soul lost to the good God. Ah, it is very sad; my heart is so
heavy about it sometimes that it is ready to burst."

"They are both upstairs, are they not?" said Felicite. "I will go up
and see them, and I will undertake to oblige them to end the matter."

An hour later, when she came down again, she found Martine still on
her knees on the soft earth, finishing her planting. Upstairs, from
her first words, when she said that she had been talking with Dr.
Ramond, and that he had shown himself anxious to know his fate
quickly, she saw that Dr. Pascal approved--he looked grave, he nodded
his head as if to say that this wish seemed to him very natural.
Clotilde, herself, ceasing to smile, seemed to listen to him with
deference. But she manifested some surprise. Why did they press her?
Master had fixed the marriage for the second week in June; she had,
then, two full months before her. Very soon she would speak about it
with Ramond. Marriage was so serious a matter that they might very
well give her time to reflect, and let her wait until the last moment
to engage herself. And she said all this with her air of good sense,
like a person resolved on coming to a decision. And Felicite was
obliged to content herself with the evident desire that both had that
matters should have the most reasonable conclusion.

"Indeed I believe that it is settled," ended Felicite. "He seems to
place no obstacle in the way, and she seems only to wish not to act
hastily, like a girl who desires to examine her heart closely, before
engaging herself for life. I will give her a week more for
reflection."

Martine, sitting on her heels, was looking fixedly on the ground with
a clouded face.

"Yes, yes," she murmured, in a low voice, "mademoiselle has been
reflecting a great deal of late. I am always meeting her in some
corner. You speak to her, and she does not answer you. That is the way
people are when they are breeding a disease, or when they have a
secret on their mind. There is something going on; she is no longer
the same, no longer the same."

And she took the dibble again and planted a leek, in her rage for
work; while old Mme. Rougon went away, somewhat tranquillized;
certain, she said, that the marriage would take place.

Pascal, in effect, seemed to accept Clotilde's marriage as a thing
settled, inevitable. He had not spoken with her about it again, the
rare allusions which they made to it between themselves, in their
hourly conversations, left them undisturbed; and it was simply as if
the two months which they still had to live together were to be
without end, an eternity stretching beyond their view.

She, especially, would look at him smiling, putting off to a future
day troubles and decisions with a pretty vague gesture, as if to leave
everything to beneficent life. He, now well and gaining strength
daily, grew melancholy only when he returned to the solitude of his
chamber at night, after she had retired. He shuddered and turned cold
at the thought that a time would come when he would be always alone.
Was it the beginning of old age that made him shiver in this way? He
seemed to see it stretching before him, like a shadowy region in which
he already began to feel all his energy melting away. And then the
regret of having neither wife nor child filled him with
rebelliousness, and wrung his heart with intolerable anguish.

Ah, why had he not lived! There were times when he cursed science,
accusing it of having taken from him the best part of his manhood. He
had let himself be devoured by work; work had consumed his brain,
consumed his heart, consumed his flesh. All this solitary, passionate
labor had produced only books, blackened paper, that would be
scattered to the winds, whose cold leaves chilled his hands as he
turned them over. And no living woman's breast to lean upon, no
child's warm locks to kiss! He had lived the cold, solitary life of a
selfish scientist, and he would die in cold solitude. Was he indeed
going to die thus? Would he never taste the happiness enjoyed by even
the common porters, by the carters who cracked their whips, passing by
under his windows? But he must hasten, if he would; soon, no doubt, it
would be too late. All his unemployed youth, all his pent-up desires,
surged tumultuously through his veins. He swore that he would yet
love, that he would live a new life, that he would drain the cup of
every passion that he had not yet tasted, before he should be an old
man. He would knock at the doors, he would stop the passers-by, he
would scour the fields and town.

On the following day, when he had taken his shower bath and left his
room, all his fever was calmed, the burning pictures had faded away,
and he fell back into his natural timidity. Then, on the next night,
the fear of solitude drove sleep away as before, his blood kindled
again, and the same despair, the same rebelliousness, the same longing
not to die without having known family joys returned. He suffered a
great deal in this crisis.

During these feverish nights, with eyes wide open in the darkness, he
dreamed always, over and over again the same dream. A girl would come
along the road, a girl of twenty, marvelously beautiful; and she would
enter and kneel down before him in an attitude of submissive
adoration, and he would marry her. She was one of those pilgrims of
love such as we find in ancient story, who have followed a star to
come and restore health and strength to some aged king, powerful and
covered with glory. He was the aged king, and she adored him, she
wrought the miracle, with her twenty years, of bestowing on him a part
of her youth. In her love he recovered his courage and his faith in
life.

Ah, youth! he hungered fiercely for it. In his declining days this
passionate longing for youth was like a revolt against approaching
age, a desperate desire to turn back, to be young again, to begin life
over again. And in this longing to begin life over again, there was
not only regret for the vanished joys of youth, the inestimable
treasure of dead hours, to which memory lent its charm; there was also
the determined will to enjoy, now, his health and strength, to lose
nothing of the joy of loving! Ah, youth! how eagerly he would taste of
its every pleasure, how eagerly he would drain every cup, before his
teeth should fall out, before his limbs should grow feeble, before the
blood should be chilled in his veins. A pang pierced his heart when he
remembered himself, a slender youth of twenty, running and leaping
agilely, vigorous and hardy as a young oak, his teeth glistening, his
hair black and luxuriant. How he would cherish them, these gifts
scorned before, if a miracle could restore them to him!

And youthful womanhood, a young girl who might chance to pass by,
disturbed him, causing him profound emotion. This was often even
altogether apart from the individual: the image, merely, of youth, the
perfume and the dazzling freshness which emanated from it, bright
eyes, healthy lips, blooming cheeks, a delicate neck, above all,
rounded and satin-smooth, shaded on the back with down; and youthful
womanhood always presented itself to him tall and slight, divinely
slender in its chaste nudeness. His eyes, gazing into vacancy,
followed the vision, his heart was steeped in infinite longing. There
was nothing good or desirable but youth; it was the flower of the
world, the only beauty, the only joy, the only true good, with health,
which nature could bestow on man. Ah, to begin life over again, to be
young again, to clasp in his embrace youthful womanhood!

Pascal and Clotilde, now that the fine April days had come, covering
the fruit trees with blossoms, resumed their morning walks in La
Souleiade. It was the first time that he had gone out since his
illness, and she led him to the threshing yard, along the paths in the
pine wood, and back again to the terrace crossed by the two bars of
shadows thrown by the secular cypresses. The sun had already warmed
the old flagstones there, and the wide horizon stretched out under a
dazzling sky.

One morning when Clotilde had been running, she returned to the house
in such exuberant spirits and so full of pleasant excitement that she
went up to the workroom without taking off either her garden hat or
the lace scarf which she had tied around her neck.

"Oh," she said, "I am so warm! And how stupid I am, not to have taken
off my things downstairs. I will go down again at once."

She had thrown the scarf on a chair on entering.

But her feverish fingers became impatient when she tried to untie the
strings of her large straw hat.

"There, now! I have fastened the knot. I cannot undo it, and you must
come to my assistance."

Pascal, happy and excited too by the pleasure of the walk, rejoiced to
see her so beautiful and so merry. He went over and stood in front of
her.

"Wait; hold up your chin. Oh, if you keep moving like that, how do you
suppose I can do it?"

She laughed aloud. He could see the laughter swelling her throat, like
a wave of sound. His fingers became entangled under her chin, that
delicious part of the throat whose warm satin he involuntarily
touched. She had on a gown cut sloping in the neck, and through the
opening he inhaled all the living perfume of the woman, the pure
fragrance of her youth, warmed by the sunshine. All at once a vertigo
seized him and he thought he was going to faint.

"No, no! I cannot do it," he said, "unless you keep still!"

The blood throbbed in his temples, and his fingers trembled, while she
leaned further back, unconsciously offering the temptation of her
fresh girlish beauty. It was the vision of royal youth, the bright
eyes, the healthy lips, the blooming cheeks, above all, the delicate
neck, satin-smooth and round, shaded on the back by down. And she
seemed to him so delicately graceful, with her slender throat, in her
divine bloom!

"There, it is done!" she cried.

Without knowing how, he had untied the strings. The room whirled
round, and then he saw her again, bareheaded now, with her starlike
face, shaking back her golden curls laughingly. Then he was seized
with a fear that he would catch her in his arms and press mad kisses
on her bare neck, and arms, and throat. And he fled from the room,
taking with him the hat, which he had kept in his hand, saying:

"I will hang it in the hall. Wait for me; I want to speak to Martine."

Once downstairs, he hurried to the abandoned room and locked himself
into it, trembling lest she should become uneasy and come down here to
seek him. He looked wild and haggard, as if he had just committed a
crime. He spoke aloud, and he trembled as he gave utterance for the
first time to the cry that he had always loved her madly,
passionately. Yes, ever since she had grown into womanhood he had
adored her. And he saw her clearly before him, as if a curtain had
been suddenly torn aside, as she was when, from an awkward girl, she
became a charming and lovely creature, with her long tapering limbs,
her strong slender body, with its round throat, round neck, and round
and supple arms. And it was monstrous, but it was true--he hungered
for all this with a devouring hunger, for this youth, this fresh,
blooming, fragrant flesh.

Then Pascal, dropping into a rickety chair, hid his face in his hands,
as if to shut out the light of day, and burst into great sobs. Good
God! what was to become of him? A girl whom his brother had confided
to him, whom he had brought up like a good father, and who was now--
this temptress of twenty-five--a woman in her supreme omnipotence! He
felt himself more defenseless, weaker than a child.

And above this physical desire, he loved her also with an immense
tenderness, enamored of her moral and intellectual being, of her
right-mindedness, of her fine intelligence, so fearless and so clear.
Even their discord, the disquietude about spiritual things by which
she was tortured, made her only all the more precious to him, as if
she were a being different from himself, in whom he found a little of
the infinity of things. She pleased him in her rebellions, when she
held her ground against him,--she was his companion and pupil; he saw
her such as he had made her, with her great heart, her passionate
frankness, her triumphant reason. And she was always present with him;
he did not believe that he could exist where she was not; he had need
of her breath; of the flutter of her skirts near him; of her
thoughtfulness and affection, by which he felt himself constantly
surrounded; of her looks; of her smile; of her whole daily woman's
life, which she had given him, which she would not have the cruelty to
take back from him again. At the thought that she was going away, that
she would not be always here, it seemed to him as if the heavens were
about to fall and crush him; as if the end of all things had come; as
if he were about to be plunged in icy darkness. She alone existed in
the world, she alone was lofty and virtuous, intelligent and
beautiful, with a miraculous beauty. Why, then, since he adored her
and since he was her master, did he not go upstairs and take her in
his arms and kiss her like an idol? They were both free, she was
ignorant of nothing, she was a woman in age. This would be happiness.

Pascal, who had ceased to weep, rose, and would have walked to the
door. But suddenly he dropped again into his chair, bursting into a
fresh passion of sobs. No, no, it was abominable, it could not be! He
felt on his head the frost of his white hair; and he had a horror of
his age, of his fifty-nine years, when he thought of her twenty-five
years. His former chill fear again took possession of him, the
certainty that she had subjugated him, that he would be powerless
against the daily temptation. And he saw her giving him the strings of
her hat to untie; compelling him to lean over her to make some
correction in her work; and he saw himself, too, blind, mad, devouring
her neck with ardent kisses. His indignation against himself at this
was so great that he arose, now courageously, and had the strength to
go upstairs to the workroom, determined to conquer himself.

Upstairs Clotilde had tranquilly resumed her drawing. She did not even
look around at his entrance, but contented herself with saying:

"How long you have been! I was beginning to think that Martine must
have made a mistake of at least ten sous in her accounts."

