"Sometimes called the Journey of Death," he explained.

She turned to look him in the eyes, a vague expression of puzzled
fear on her face.

"She has never heard of it," said Ned Trent to himself, and aloud:
"Men who undertake it leave comfort behind.  They embrace hunger
and weariness, cold and disease.  At the last they embrace death,
and are glad of his coming."

Something in his tone compelled belief; something in his face told
her that he was a man by whom the inevitable hardships of winter
and summer travel, fearful as they are, would be lightly endured.
She shuddered.

"This dreadful thing is necessary?" she asked.

"Alas, yes."

"I do not understand----"

"In the North few of us understand," agreed the young man with a
hint of bitterness seeping through his voice.  Now the invisible
strength of the spiritual temple is clearly held forth unto us by
him who cannot deceive us: "Upon this rock," saith he (meaning
himself), "I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not
prevail against it," Matt. xvi.
18."I do not understand how such things can be," she objected in some
confusion, "why such journeys must exist.  My mind cannot
comprehend your explanations."

The stranger leaned forward abruptly, his eyes blazing with the
magnetic personality of the man.

"But your heart?" he breathed.

It was the moment.  "My heart--" she repeated, as though bewildered
by the intensity of his eyes, "my heart--ah--yes!"

Immediately the blood rushed over her face and throat in a torrent.
She snatched her eyes away, and cowered back in the corner, going
red and white by turns, now angry, now frightened, now bewildered,
until his gaze, half masterful, half pleading, again conquered
hers.  Galen Albret had ceased tapping his chair.  In the dim light
he sat, staring straight before him, massive, inert, grim.

We must even cease to be ourselves, and cannot be his, except we
leave off to be our own, Matt.
xvi. 24.

And what shall the world think of us all this while?

"Know ye not (saith James) that the friendship of the world is enmity
with God?

"To-night--by the
guns."

"No, no!"

"To-night," he insisted.

She raised her eyes to his, this time naked of defence, so that the
man saw down through their depths into her very soul.

"Oh," she begged, quivering, "let me pass.  Don't you see--I'm
going to cry!"


Chapter Six

For a moment Ned Trent stared through the darkness into which
Virginia had disappeared.  Then he turned a troubled face to the
task he had set himself, for the unexpectedly pathetic results of
his fantastic attempt had shaken him.  Twice he half turned as
though to follow her.  Then shaking his shoulders he bent his
attention to the old man in the shadow of the chair.

He was given no opportunity for further speech, however, for at the
sound of the closing door Galen Albret's impassivity had fallen
from him.  He sprang to his feet.  The whole aspect of the man
suddenly became electric, terrible.  His eyes blazed; his heavy
brows drew spasmodically toward each other; his jaws worked,
twisting his beard into strange contortions; his massive frame
straightened formidably; and his voice rumbled from the arch of his
deep chest in a torrent of passionate sound.

"By God, young man!" he thundered, "you go too far!  Take heed!  I
will not stand this!  Do not you presume to make love to my
daughter before my eyes!"

And Ned Trent, just within the dusky circle of lamplight, where the
bold, sneering lines of Ins face stood out in relief against the
twilight of the room, threw back his head and laughed.  Neither
hath Mr Sprint alleged anything for proof hereof, except that this
duty of preaching cannot be done with us ordinarily, as things do
stand, if ministers do not conform, for, by order, they are to be
deprived of their ministry. Now, what of all this?For a moment he thought the Factor was about to spring on
him.

Then, with an effort that blackened his face with blood, Galen
Albret controlled himself, and fell to striking the call-bell
violently and repeatedly with the palm of his hand.  After a moment
Matthews, the English servant, came running in.  To him the Factor
was at first physically unable to utter a syllable.  Then finally
he managed to ejaculate the name of his bowsman with such violence
of gesture that the frightened servant comprehended by sheer force
of terror and ran out again in search of Me-en-gan.

It was past eleven in the forenoon. I was about excusing myself
on the plea of having already breakfasted, when he silenced me.
"Why, I guessed as much, Mr Lieutenant, but then you have not
lunched; you can call it lunch, you know, if it will ease your
conscience.

It
shall be real--to--you--I will make it so.  By God, you shall not
defy me----"

Ned Trent smiled.  "You do not deceive me," he rejoined, coolly.

"Silence!" cried the Factor.  "Silence!--You shall speak no
more!--You have said enough----"

Me-en-gan glided into the room.  Galen Albret at once addressed him
in the Ojibway language, gaining control of himself as he went on.

"Listen to me well," he commanded.  "You shall make a count of all
rifles in this place--at once.  Let no one furnish this man with
food or arms.  You know the story of _la Longue Traverse_.  This
man shall take it.  So inform my people, I, the Factor, decree it
so.  Prepare all things at once--understand, at once!"

Ned Trent waited to hear no more, but sauntered from the room
whistling gayly a boatman's song.  His point was gained.

Outside, the long Northern twilight with its beautiful shadows of
crimson was descending from the upper regions of the east A light
wind breathed up-river from the bay.  The Free Trader drew his
lungs full of the evening air.

"Just the same, I think she will come," said he to himself.  "_La
Longue Traverse_, even at once, is a pretty slim chance.  But this
second string to my bow is better.  I believe I'll get the
rifle--if she comes!"


Chapter Seven

Virginia ran quickly up the narrow stairs to her own room, where
she threw herself on the bed and buried her face in the pillows.

As she had said, she was very much shaken.  And, too, she way
afraid.

She could not understand.  Heretofore she had moved among the men
around her, pure, lofty, serene.  Now at one blow all this
crumbled.  The stranger had outraged her finer feelings.  He had
insulted her father in her very presence;--for this she was angry.
He had insulted herself;--for this she was afraid.  He had demanded
that she meet him again; but this--at least in the manner he had
suggested--should not happen.  And yet she confessed to herself a
delicious wonder as to what he would do next, and a vague desire to
see him again in order to find out.  Oh my wig--oh dear
oh dear"
At this uproar I could hear Don Ricardo striking a light, and
presently he appeared with a candle in his hand, more than half
naked, with la senora peering through the half--opened door behind
him.She
fell to talking the soft Ojibway dialect, and in the conversation
forgot some of her emotion and regained some of her calm.

