software or any other related product without express permission.]

*END THE SMALL PRINT! FOR PUBLIC DOMAIN ETEXTS*Ver.07/27/01*END*


This etext was produced by David Price, email ccx074@coventry.ac.uk,
from the 1864 Chapman and Hall "Tales of all Countries" edition.


MRS. GENERAL TALBOYS

by Anthony Trollope


Why Mrs. General Talboys first made up her mind to pass the winter
of 1859 at Rome I never clearly understood.  To myself she explained
her purposes, soon after her arrival at the Eternal City, by
declaring, in her own enthusiastic manner, that she was inspired by
a burning desire to drink fresh at the still living fountains of
classical poetry and sentiment.  But I always thought that there was
something more than this in it.  Classical poetry and sentiment were
doubtless very dear to her; but so also, I imagine, were the
substantial comforts of Hardover Lodge, the General's house in
Berkshire; and I do not think that she would have emigrated for the
winter had there not been some slight domestic misunderstanding.
Let this, however, be fully made clear,--that such misunderstanding,
if it existed, must have been simply an affair of temper.  No
impropriety of conduct has, I am very sure, ever been imputed to the
lady.  The General, as all the world knows, is hot; and Mrs.
Talboys, when the sweet rivers of her enthusiasm are unfed by
congenial waters, can, I believe, make herself disagreeable.

But be this as it may, in November, 1859, Mrs. Talboys came among us
English at Rome, and soon succeeded in obtaining for herself a
comfortable footing in our society.  We all thought her more
remarkable for her mental attributes than for physical perfection;
but, nevertheless, she was, in her own way, a sightly woman.  She
had no special brilliance, either of eye or complexion, such as
would produce sudden flames in susceptible hearts; nor did she seem
to demand instant homage by the form and step of a goddess; but we
found her to be a good-looking woman of some thirty or thirty-three
years of age, with soft, peach-like cheeks,--rather too like those
of a cherub, with sparkling eyes which were hardly large enough,
with good teeth, a white forehead, a dimpled chin and a full bust.
Such, outwardly, was Mrs. General Talboys.  The description of the
inward woman is the purport to which these few pages will be
devoted.

There are two qualities to which the best of mankind are much
subject, which are nearly related to each other, and as to which the
world has not yet decided whether they are to be classed among the
good or evil attributes of our nature.  Men and women are under the
influence of them both, but men oftenest undergo the former, and
women the latter.  They are ambition and enthusiasm.  Now Mrs.
Talboys was an enthusiastic woman.

As to ambition, generally as the world agrees with Mark Antony in
stigmatising it as a grievous fault, I am myself clear that it is a
virtue; but with ambition at present we have no concern.  Enthusiasm
also, as I think, leans to virtue's side; or, at least, if it be a
fault, of all faults it is the prettiest.  But then, to partake at
all of virtue, or even to be in any degree pretty, the enthusiasm
must be true.

Bad coin is known from good by the ring of it; and so is bad
enthusiasm.  Let the coiner be ever so clever at his art, in the
coining of enthusiasm the sound of true gold can never be imparted
to the false metal.  And I doubt whether the cleverest she in the
world can make false enthusiasm palatable to the taste of man.  To
the taste of any woman the enthusiasm of another woman is never very
palatable.

We understood at Home that Mrs. Talboys had a considerable family,--
four or five children, we were told; but she brought with her only
one daughter, a little girl about twelve years of age.  She had torn
herself asunder, as she told me, from the younger nurslings of her
heart, and had left them to the care of a devoted female attendant,
whose love was all but maternal.  And then she said a word or two
about the General, in terms which made me almost think that this
quasi-maternal love extended itself beyond the children.  The idea,
however, was a mistaken one, arising from the strength of her
language, to which I was then unaccustomed.  I have since become
aware that nothing can be more decorous than old Mrs. Upton, the
excellent head-nurse at Hardover Lodge; and no gentleman more
discreet in his conduct than General Talboys.

And I may as well here declare, also, that there could be no more
virtuous woman than the General's wife.  Her marriage vow was to her
paramount to all other vows and bonds whatever.  The General's
honour was quite safe when he sent her off to Rome by herself; and
he no doubt knew that it was so.  Illi robur et aes triplex, of
which I believe no weapons of any assailant could get the better.
But, nevertheless, we used to fancy that she had no repugnance to
impropriety in other women,--to what the world generally calls
impropriety.  Invincibly attached herself to the marriage tie, she
would constantly speak of it as by no means necessarily binding on
others; and, virtuous herself as any griffin of propriety, she
constantly patronised, at any rate, the theory of infidelity in her
neighbours.  She was very eager in denouncing the prejudices of the
English world, declaring that she had found existence among them to
be no longer possible for herself.  She was hot against the stern
unforgiveness of British matrons, and equally eager in reprobating
the stiff conventionalities of a religion in which she said that
none of its votaries had faith, though they all allowed themselves
to be enslaved.

We had at that time a small set at Rome, consisting chiefly of
English and Americans, who habitually met at each other's rooms, and
spent many of our evening hours in discussing Italian politics.  We
were, most of us, painters, poets, novelists, or sculptors;--perhaps
I should say would-be painters, poets, novelists, and sculptors,--
aspirants hoping to become some day recognised; and among us Mrs.
Talboys took her place, naturally enough, on account of a very
pretty taste she had for painting.

I do not know that she ever originated anything that was grand; but
she made some nice copies, and was fond, at any rate, of art
conversation.  She wrote essays, too, which she showed in confidence
to various gentlemen, and had some idea of taking lessons in
modelling.

In all our circle Conrad Mackinnon, an American, was, perhaps, the
person most qualified to be styled its leader.  He was one who
absolutely did gain his living, and an ample living too, by his pen,
and was regarded on all sides as a literary lion, justified by
success in roaring at any tone he might please.  His usual roar was
not exactly that of a sucking-dove or a nightingale; but it was a
good-humoured roar, not very offensive to any man, and apparently
acceptable enough to some ladies.  He was a big burly man, near to
fifty as I suppose, somewhat awkward in his gait, and somewhat loud
in his laugh.  But though nigh to fifty, and thus ungainly, he liked
to be smiled on by pretty women, and liked, as some said, to be
flattered by them also.  If so, he should have been happy, for the
ladies at Rome at that time made much of Conrad Mackinnon.

