Produced by Eric Casteleijn, Cam Venezuela, Charles M. Bidwell,
Thomas Hutchinson, Suzanne L. Shell, Charles Franks
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team


[Illustration: "COUNT VON HEMELSTEIN," THE AMERICAN SAID LAZILY,
"I WAS JUST THINKING WHAT A STUNNING BOOK-COVER YOU WOULD
MAKE FOR A CHEAP NOVEL." Drawn by Clarence F. Underwood.]


L. P. M.

The End of the Great War


By
J. Stewart Barney

1915


With a Frontispiece by
Clarence F. Underwood


  _THIS BOOK IS DEDICATED_

  TO MY REAL FRIENDS, WHO MAY LOVE IT.
  WHILE THE OTHERS IT MAY BORE;
  TO MY ENEMIES, GOD BLESS THEM,
  THO' THEY SPLUTTER, MORE AND MORE.


CONTENTS


CHAPTER
     I.--THE MAN AND THE HOUR
    II.--THE ONE-MAN SECRET
   III.--CROSSING WITH ROYALTY
    IV.--THE FIRST REBUFF
     V.--ECHOES FROM THE WILHELMSTRASSE
    VI.--A RUSTY OLD CANNON-BALL
   VII.--DIPLOMACY WINS
  VIII.--THE SPY-DRIVEN TAXI
    IX.--BUCKINGHAM PALACE
     X.--HE MEETS THE KING
    XI.--THE DEIONIZER
   XII.--FIRST SHOW OF FORCE
  XIII.--"THE KING IS DEAD; LONG LIVE THE KING!"
   XIV.--THE ROYAL TEA-TABLE
    XV.--SURROUNDED BY SOLDIERS
   XVI.--A DINNER AT THE BRITZ
  XVII.--THE VOICE IN THE TELEPHONE
 XVIII.--IN THE HANDS OF THE GERMANS
   XIX.--THE GERMAN POINT OF VIEW
    XX.--GENERAL VON LICHTENSTEIN
   XXI.--HE INSTALLS HIS WIRELESS
  XXII.--KAFFEE KLATSCH
 XXIII.--THE TWO-WHEELED MYSTERY
  XXIV.--DER KAISER
   XXV.--THE MASQUERADER
  XXVI.--TWO REMARKABLE MEN
 XXVII.--ALL CARDS ON THE TABLE
XXVIII.--WHERE IS IT?
  XXIX.--THE DIFFERENCE OF THEIR STATIONS
   XXX.--THEY CALL FOR ASSISTANCE
  XXXI.--"SIT DOWN, YOU DOG!"
 XXXII.--L. P. M.
XXXIII.--YACHTING IN THE AIR
 XXXIV.--THE ULTIMATUM
  XXXV.--A LYING KING MAKES A NATION OF LIARS
 XXXVI.--THINK OF IT! WHY NOT?


L. P. M.


CHAPTER I

THE MAN AND THE HOUR


The Secretary of State, although he sought to maintain an air of
official reserve, showed that he was deeply impressed by what he had
just heard.

"Well, young man, you are certainly offering to undertake a pretty
large contract."

He smiled, and continued in a slightly rhetorical vein--the Secretary
was above all things first, last, and always an orator.

"In my many years of public life," he said, "I have often had occasion
to admire the dauntless spirit of our young men. But you have forced
me to the conclusion that even I, with all my confidence in their
power, have failed to realize how inevitably American initiative and
independence will demand recognition. It is a quality which our form
of government seems especially to foster and develop, and I glory
in it as perhaps the chief factor in our national greatness and
pre-eminence.

"In what other country, I ask you," he flung out an arm across the
great, flat-topped desk of state, "would a mere boy like yourself ever
conceive such a scheme, or have the incentive or opportunity to bring
it to perfection? And, having conceived and perfected it, in what
other country would he find the very heads of his Government so
accessible and ready to help him?"

The young man leaned forward. "Then am I to understand, Mr. Secretary,
that you are ready to help me?"

"Yes." He faced about and looked at his visitor in a glow of
enthusiasm. "Not only will I help you, but I will, so far as is
practicable, put behind you the power of this Administration.

"Doubtless the newspapers," his tone took on a tinge of ironic
resentment, "when they learn the broad character of the credentials
that I shall give you in order that you may meet the crowned heads of
Europe, will say that I am again lowering the dignity of my office.
But I consider, Mr. Edestone, that I am, in reality, giving more
dignity to my office by bringing it closer to and by placing it at
the services of, those from whose hands it first received its dignity,
the sovereign people. 'The master is greater than the servant'; and
to my mind you as a citizen are even more entitled to the aid and
co-operation of this Department than are its accredited envoys, our
ministers and ambassadors, who, like myself, are but your hired men."

His face lighted up with the memory of the many stirring campaigns
through which he had passed and his wonderful voice rang out,
responding to his will like a perfect musical instrument under the
touch of the artist.

"I tell you, sir," he declared, "I would rather be instrumental in
bringing to an end this cruel war which is now deluging the pages of
history with the heart's blood of the people, whose voices may now be
drowned in the roar of the 42-centimeter guns, but whose spirits will
unite in the black stench clouds which rise from the festered fields
of Flanders to descend upon the heads of those who by Divine Right
have murdered them,--I would rather be instrumental in bringing about
this result, than be President of the United States!"

He had risen, as he spoke, and had stepped from behind his desk to
give freer play to this burst of eloquence, but he now paused at the
entrance of a secretary for whom he had sent, and changing to that
quizzical drawl with which he had so often disarmed a hostile
audience, added, "And they do say that I am not without ambition in
that respect."

He turned then to the waiting secretary, and letting his hand drop on
Edestone's shoulder:

"Mr. Williams," he said, "this is Mr. John Fulton Edestone, of New
York, whose name is no doubt familiar to you. He is desirous of
meeting and discussing quite informally with the potentates of Europe,
a little matter which he thinks, and I more or less agree with him,
will be of decided interest to them."

He chuckled softly; then continued in a more serious tone: "Mr.
Edestone hopes, in short, with our assistance, to bring about not only
the end of the European war, but to realize my dream--Universal
Peace--and his plan, as he has outlined it to me, meets with my hearty
approval.

"I wish you to furnish him with the credentials from this Department
necessary to give him _entrée_ anywhere abroad and protect him at
all times and under all circumstances.

"And, Mr. Williams," he halted the retiring subordinate, "when Mr.
Edestone's papers have been drawn, will you kindly bring them to me?
I wish to present them in person, and I know of no more appropriate
occasion than this afternoon, when I am to receive a delegation of
school children from the Southern Baptist Union and the Boy Scouts of
the Methodist Temperance League. I will be glad to have these young
Americans, as well as any others who may be calling to pay their
respects--not to me but to my office--hear what I have to say on
peace, patriotism, and grapes."

With the departure of the secretary he unbent slightly. "Well," he
smiled, "you cannot say, as did Ericsson with his monitor and Holland
with his submarine and the Wrights with their aëroplane, that you
could not get the support of your Government until it was too late. In
fact, my dear fellow, when I think of the obstacles so many inventors
have to contend with, it strikes me that you have had pretty easy
sailing."

"Perhaps," Edestone raised his eyebrows a trifle whimsically, "it has
not been so easy as you think, Mr. Secretary."

"Oh, I know, I know!" the other replied. "You still must admit that in
comparison with most men you have been singularly fortunate. You have
had great wealth, absolute freedom to develop your ideas as you saw
fit, and finally the influence to command an immediate hearing for
your claims. Do you know that perhaps you are the richest young man in
the world today? It is this which, I must confess, at first rather
prejudiced me against you."

Edestone laughed good-naturedly. "It is lucky that my photographs were
able to speak for me."

"Yes," the Secretary assented. "As you probably have recognized, I am
not a scientist, and all your formulae and explanations were about as
so much Greek to me, but those photographs of yours were most
convincing, and prove to me how simple are the greatest of
discoveries. I fancy," he added slyly, "that they will penetrate even
the intelligence of a monarch."

"Ah!" He rubbed his hands together. "I can imagine the chagrin and
fury of those war lords when they find themselves so unexpectedly
called to time, while your device is held over the nations like a
policeman's club, with America as its custodian. What a thought!
Universal dominion for our country; Universal Peace!"

Some sense of opposition on the part of his companion aroused him, and
he levelled a quick and searching glance at the other.

"That is your intention, is it not, Mr. Edestone?" he demanded. "That,
upon the completion of your present mission, the Government shall take
over this discovery of yours?"

Edestone moved uneasily in his seat. He had naturally anticipated this
question, and yet he was unprepared to meet it.

The Secretary frowned and repeated his question. "That is your
intention, is it not?"

Hesitating no longer the inventor answered quietly:

"Mr. Secretary, I yield to no man in my devotion to my country, but I
am one of those who believe that the highest form of patriotism is to
seek the best interest of mankind, and standing on that I tell you
frankly that I cannot at this time answer your question. Just now I
look no farther than the end of this brutal war. After that is
accomplished it will be time enough for me to decide the ultimate
disposition of my invention. Its secret is now known to no living soul
but myself, and is so simple that it requires no written record to
preserve it, and would die with me. It is the result, it is true, of
many years of hard work, but the finished product I can and often do
carry in my waistcoat pocket.

"Do not misunderstand me," he lifted his hand as the Secretary
endeavoured to break in. "I thoroughly realize the responsibility of
my position and that my great wealth is a sacred trust. Upon the
answer to the question you have just put to me depends the destiny of
the world, whether it is answered by myself at this time or by others
in the future. Exactly what I will do when the time comes I cannot
say, but I will tell you this much, that in reaching a decision I will
call to my assistance men like yourself and abide by whatever course
the majority of them may dictate."

"But, my dear young fellow, that will not do." The Secretary shook his
head. "You are called upon to answer my question right here and now."

He dropped his bland and diplomatic manner as he spoke, and with his
jaw thrust forward showed himself the unyielding autocrat, who, in the
rough and tumble of politics, had ruled his party with a rod of iron.
This man whose wonderful talents and personality had fitted him for
his chosen position of champion of the plain people, and whose great
motive power, against all odds, that had forced him into the first
place in their hearts, was his sincere and honest love of office.

He had now assumed a rather boisterous and bullying tone, showing that
perhaps his great love for the rougher elements of society was due to
the fact that in the process of evolution he himself was not far
removed from the very plain people.

"You have been talking pretty loud about using the 'big stick' over on
the other side," he went on sternly, "but that big-stick business you
will find is a thing that works two ways. Suppose then I should tell
you, 'No answer to my question, no credentials.' What would you have
to say?"

"I should say," Edestone's face was set, "simply this, Mr. Secretary,
if I must speak in the language of the people in order that you may
understand me: 'I should like very much to have your backing in the
game, but if you are going to sit on the opposite side of the table, I
hold three kings and two emperors in my hand, and I challenge you to a
show-down.' I should further say that, credentials or no credentials,
I am leaving tomorrow on the _Ivernia_, and that inasmuch as I
have a taxi at the door, and a special train held for me at the Union
Station, I must bid you good-day, and leave you to your watchful
waiting, while I work alone."

He rose from his seat, and with a bow started for the door.

"Hold on there, young fellow, keep your coat on!" the Secretary
shouted, throwing his head back and laughing loud enough to be heard
over on the Virginia shores. "You remind me of one of those gentle
breezes out home, which after it has dropped the cow-shed into the
front parlour and changed your Post-Office address, seems always to
sort of clear up the atmosphere. When one of them comes along we
generally allow it to have its own way. It doesn't matter much whether
we do or not, it will take it anyhow. I never play cards, but what you
say about having a few kings in your pants' pocket seems to be pretty
nearly true. You are made of the real stuff, and if you can do all the
things that you say you can do, and I believe you can, nothing will
stop you."

"In that case," said Edestone, resuming his seat, "I suppose I may as
well wait for my credentials."

And in due time he got them, the presentation being made by the
Secretary to the edification of the Baptist School children and the
Methodist Soldiers of Temperance and a score of adoring admirers. Then
with a hasty farewell to the officials of the State Department, this
emissary of peace started on his hurried rush to New York.

His taxi, which he had held since seven o'clock that morning, broke
all speed regulations in getting to the station, and the man was well
paid for his pains.

Edestone found his Special coupled up and waiting for him. He always
travelled in specials, and they always waited for him. In fact,
everything waited for him, and he waited for no one. When he engaged a
taxi he never discharged it until he went to bed or left the town. It
was related of him that on one occasion he had directed the taxi to
wait for him at Charing Cross Station, and returning from Paris three
days later had allowed his old friend, the cabby, who knew him well, a
shilling an hour as a _pourboire_. He claimed that his mind
worked smoothly as long as it could run ahead without waits, but that
as soon as it had to halt for anything--a cab, a train, or a slower
mind to catch up--it got from under his control and it took hours to
get it back again.

To him money was only to be spent. He would say: "I spend money
because that calls for no mental effort, and saving is not worth the
trouble that it requires."

A big husky chap, thirty-four years old, with the constitution of an
ox, the mind of a superman, the simplicity of a child: that was John
Fulton Edestone. He insisted that his discovery was an accident that
might have befallen anyone, and counted as nothing the years of
endless experiments and the millions of dollars he had spent in
bringing it to perfection. He was a dreamer, and had used his colossal
income and at times his principal in putting his dreams into iron and
steel.

Upon arriving in New York he was met by his automobile and was rushed
away to what he was pleased to call his Little Place in the Country.
It was one of his father's old plants which had contributed to the
millions which he was now spending.

It was nothing more nor less than a combination machine shop and
shipyard, situated on the east bank of the Hudson in the neighbourhood
of Spuyten Duyvil.

It was midnight when he arrived. The night force was just leaving as
he stepped from his automobile and the morning shift was taking its
place. At eight o'clock the next morning this latter would in turn be
relieved by a day shift; for night and day, Sundays and holidays,
winter and summer, without stopping, his work went on. It got on his
nerves, he said, to see anything stop. Speed and efficiency at any
cost was his motto, and the result was that he had gathered about him
men who were willing to keep running under forced draft, even if it
did heat up the bearings.

"Tell Mr. Page to come to me at once," he said, as he entered a little
two-story brick structure apart from the other buildings. This had
originally been used as an office, but he had changed it into a
comfortable home, his "Little Place in the Country."


CHAPTER II

THE ONE-MAN SECRET


With the giving of a few orders relative to his departure in the
morning, the brevity of which showed the character of service he
demanded, Edestone permitted himself to relax. He dropped into an
arm-chair, after lighting a long, black cigar, and pouring out for
himself a comfortable drink of Scotch whisky and soda.

For a few minutes he sat looking into the open fire, while blowing
ring after ring of smoke straight up into the air. The well-trained
servant moved so quietly about the room that his presence was only
called to his attention by the frantic efforts of the smoke rings to
retain their circular shape as they were caught in the current of air
which he created and were sent whirling and twisting to dissolution,
although to the last they clung to every object with which they came
in contact in their futile struggle to escape destruction.

Edestone loved to watch these little smoke phantoms, their first mad
rush to assume their beautiful form and the persistency with which
they clung to it until overtaken by another, were brushed aside, or
else drifted on in wavering elongated outlines and so gradually
disappeared.

They suggested to his fancy the struggling nations of the world,
battling with the currents and cross-currents near the storm-scarred
old earth, and continually endeavouring to rise above their fellows to
some calmer strata, where serene in their original form they could
look down with condescension upon their harassed and broken companions
below.

The little rings were, however, more interesting to him for another
and more practical reason. It was their toroidal movement around a
circular axis which moved independently in any direction that first
suggested to him the principles of his discovery.

Before him the fire upon the hearth sang and crackled as it tore
asunder the elements that had taken untold ages to assemble in their
present form, and with the prodigality of nature was joyfully rushing
them up the chimney to start them again upon their long and weary
journey through the ages.

The bubbles coming into existence in the bottom of his glass, rushing
in myriads through the pale yellow liquid to the top and obliteration,
set the thin glass to vibrating like the sound of distant bells.

From his workshop came the soft purr of rapidly moving machinery,
punctuated now and again by the roar of the heavy railroad trains that
thundered past his little flag station.

Had he seen then what the future had in store for him, had he realized
that he was in that well-beloved environment for the last time, he
would not have hesitated to have gone on along the road that he had
marked out for himself. It would simply have made the wrench at
parting a little bit more severe.

His musing was interrupted by his man, who had attracted his attention
by noiselessly rearranging on the table the objects that were already
in perfect order.

"Mr. Page is outside, sir."

It was a call to action. Edestone, without changing his position,
said: "Tell him to come in." And then taking two or three deep puffs
at his cigar, he blew out into the clear space in front of him a large
and perfectly formed ring. Rising he followed it slowly as it drifted
across the room, twisting and circling upon itself. Then with a low
laugh, which was almost a sigh, after sticking his finger through its
shadowy form, with a sweep of his powerful hand he brushed it aside.

"Good-bye, little friend," he said, "we have had many good times
together, and whatever you may have in store for me, I promise never
to complain. Let us hope that I shall use wisely and well the
knowledge which you have given me."

Turning quickly at some slight sound, which told him that he was no
longer alone, he threw his shoulders back, and with his head high in
the air there came over his clean-shaven face a look of quiet
determination, a look before which those who were born to rule were so
soon to quail.

Then, with a complete change of manner, upon seeing his old friend and
fellow-workman, his face lighted up, and he laughed:

"Well, old 'Specs,' I'm back, you see, and the 'Dove of Peace' is
safely caged. He came to hand with scarcely even a struggle." Then as
he looked down into the other's worn and haggard eyes which peered up
at him through their round, horn-rimmed spectacles, his voice softened
and he spoke with a touch of compunction.

"By Jove, old chap, you look all in. I've been driving you boys a bit
too hard; but don't you worry. I'm off in the morning, and then you'll
have a chance to take it easier. Soon our beautiful _Little Peace
Maker_," he winked, "will be tucked safely away in some quiet
corner, and you scientific fellows can devote all your attention
to your beloved bridge, while I bid up The Hague Conference for a
no-trump hand.

"But to business now. How did the films for the moving pictures come
out?"

"Splendidly."

"Good. I'll have you run them over for me presently. I don't want to
show too much when I give my performances for Royalty, you understand;
just enough to scare them to death. And how about the wireless? Did
you test that out, and tune it to my instruments, as I asked you?"

With a satisfactory answer to this also, he ranged off rapidly into a
dozen other inquiries.

"Does Lee understand exactly where he is to go, and what he is to do,
if by any chance he is discovered there? He does, eh? Well, I don't
think he need anticipate the slightest trouble in that regard; but
we've got to be prepared for every emergency.

"Now, 'Specs,' I want you to get off tomorrow night. Leave enough men
about the plant, and have sufficient work going on, so that your
absence may not excite comment. Go by way of Canada, and as soon as
you are safely out of here, take your time and run no unnecessary
risks. As soon as you are settled, communicate with me, once only
every day at exactly twelve o'clock Greenwich time, until I answer
you. I shall then not communicate with you again until this peace game
is up and we are forced to show our hands."

He paused a moment as if to make sure that he had overlooked nothing;
then resumed his instructions.

"Captain Lee's men all understand, I believe, that we are playing for
a big stake, and that the work we have on hand is no child's play; but
it will do no harm to impress it on them again. I sincerely hope that
no rough work will be required; but they may as well realize that I
intend to have absolute obedience, and shall not hesitate at the most
extreme measures to obtain it. They must be drilled until every man
is faultlessly perfect in the part he is to play. We may all be
pronounced outlaws at any time with a price upon our heads, and
therefore, before leaving here, I wish that none be allowed to join
the enterprise except those who willingly volunteer for the sake of
the cause. Then the general put various questions, as if he would
like to learn some news.

"Well, tell me now whom you are stopping with--at Duke's? It is unpleasant
there. Come to us to dinner," he said, finally, dismissing Nekhludoff,
"at five. Do you speak English?"

"Yes, sir."
"Well, that is good. You see, there is an English traveler here. He
is studying the exile system, and the prisons in Siberia. So he will
dine with us, and you come, too. We dine at five, and madam wants
us to be punctual. I will let you know what will be done with that
woman, and also with the patient. Maybe it will be possible to leave
somebody with him."
Having taken leave of the general, Nekhludoff drove to the postoffice.

Receiving his mail, he walked up to a wooden bench, on which a
soldier was sitting, probably waiting for something; he sat down
beside him, and started to look through the letters.

Among them he found a registered letter in a beautiful, large envelope,
with a large seal of red wax on it. He tore open the envelope, and,
seeing a letter from Selenin with some official document, he felt
the blood mounting to his cheeks, and his heart grow weak.

This document was the decision concerning Katiousha's trial.
What was it? Was it possible that it contained a refusal? Nekhludoff
hastily ran over the letter, written in small, hardly legible, broken
handwriting, and breathed freely. The decision was a favorable
one.

"Dear friend," wrote Selenin, "our last conversation made a strong
impression upon me. You were right concerning Maslova. I have looked
through the accusation.

This could be corrected only through the Commission for
Petitions, to which you sent your petition. They let me have
a copy of the pardon, and here I send it to you, to the address
which the Countess Catherine Ivanovna gave me. I press your hand in
friendship."
The news was pleasant and important. All that Nekhludoff could wish for
Katiousha and himself was realized.

True, those changes in his life changed his relations to her. But
now, he thought, all that was most important was to see her as
quick as possible and bring her the good news of her freedom. He
thought that the copy he had in his hand was sufficient for that. So
he bade the cabman drive at once to the prison.

The superintendent of the prison told him that he could not admit him
without a permit from the general. The copy of the petition from
their majesty's bureau also did not prevail with the superintendent.
He positively refused admittance. He also refused to admit him to see
Kryltzoff.

CHAPTER VIII.

After the disappointment at the prison, Nekhludoff drove down to the
Governor's Bureau to find out whether they had received there any
news concerning the pardon of Maslova.

There was no news there, so he drove back to his hotel, and wrote
at once to the lawyer and to Selenin concerning it. Having
finished the letters, he glanced at his watch; it was already time
to go to the general.

On the way he thought again of how he might hand over the pardon to
Katiousha; of the place she would be sent to, and how he would live
with her.

At dinner in the general's house all were not only very friendly
to Nekhludoff, but, as it seemed, very favorably inclined to him,
as he was a new, interesting personality.

The general, who came in to dinner with a white cross on his breast,
greeted Nekhludoff like an old friend. On the general's inquiry as to
what he had done since he saw him in the morning, Nekhludoff
answered that he had been at the postoffice, that he had found
out the facts concerning the pardoning of the person they were
talking of in the morning, and he asked permission to visit her.

The general seemed displeased, began to frown and said nothing.

"Will you have some whisky?" he said in French to the Englishman who had
walked up to him. The Englishman took some, and related that he had
been to see the cathedral of the city, and the factory, and expressed
the desire to see the great jail in which criminals were confined
on their way to Siberia.

"This idea is excellent!" exclaimed the general, turning to Nekhludoff.
"You may go together. Give them a pass!" he added, turning to his
lieutenant.

"What time do you wish to go?" Nekhludoff asked the Englishman.

"I prefer to visit prisons in the evening," the Englishman replied.
"All are then at home, and there are no preparations."
After dinner, Nekhludoff followed her into the ante-chamber,
where the Englishman was already waiting for him to visit the prison,
as they had agreed. Having taken leave of the whole family, he walked
out, followed by the Englishman.

The sombre looking prison, the soldier on guard, the lantern behind
the gate, notwithstanding the pure white layer of snow which had
covered everything--the sidewalk, the roof and the walls--made
a gloomy impression. The proud looking superintendent, walking out to
the gate and glancing at Nekhludoff's pass in the light of the
lantern, shrugged his broad shoulders, but obeyed the order and invited
the visitors to follow him.

He first led them to the yard, and then to a door on the right hand
and up the stairs leading to the office. Offering them seats, he
asked them in what way he could serve them, and learning from Nekhludoff
that he wished to see Maslova, he sent the jailer for her and
prepared himself to answer the questions which the Englishman
wished to ask him, before going to the cell.

Nekhludoff translated the Englishman's questions. While they were
conversing they heard approaching footsteps, the door opened and
the jailer entered, followed by Katiousha in her prison garb, with
a scarf tied around her head.

Nekhludoff rose and made a few steps toward her. She said nothing, but
her excited expression surprised him. Her face was lit up with a
wonderful decision. He had never seen her look like that. Now the
blood rushed to her face, and now she turned pale; now her fingers
twisted convulsively the edges of her jacket, now she looked at him,
and now she dropped her eyes.

"You know what I called you for?" asked Nekhludoff.

"Yes, he told me. But now I am decided. I will ask permission
to go with Vladimir Ivanovitch."

She said this quickly, as if she had made up her mind before what to
say.

"How with Vladimir Ivanovitch?" asked Nekhludoff. But she interrupted
him.

"But if he wants me to live with him?" Here she stopped in fear, and
added, "I mean to stay with him.

I could expect nothing better, and perhaps I may be useful to him
and others. What difference does it make to me?"
One of the two things had happened--either she had fallen in love
with Simonson and did not wish his sacrifice, which weighed so heavily
on him, or she was still in love with Nekhludoff and renounced him for
his own good, burning all bridges behind her, and throwing her fortunes
in the same scale with those of Simonson. Nekhludoff understood it,
and felt ashamed.

"If you are in love with him," he said.

"I never knew such people, you know. It is impossible not to love them.
And Vladimir is entirely unlike any person I have ever known."
"Yes, certainly," said Nekhludoff. "He is an excellent man, and I
think----"
Here she interrupted him, as if she were afraid that he would speak
too much, or she would not say everything.

"You will forgive me for doing that which you did not wish. You, too,
must love."
She said the very thing that he had just said to himself.

But now he was no longer thinking so, but felt altogether different.

He felt not only shame, but pity.

"Is it possible that all is at an end between us?" he said.

"Yes, it looks like it," she answered, with a strange smile.

"But nevertheless I would like to be useful to you."
"To us," she said, glancing at Nekhludoff. "We don't need anything.
I am very much obliged to you. If it were not for you"--she wished to
say something, but her voice began to tremble.

"I don't know which of us is under greater obligation to the other.

God will settle our accounts," said Nekhludoff.

"Yes, God will settle them," she whispered.

"Are you ready?" asked the Englishman.

"Directly," answered Nekhludoff, and then he inquired of her what she
knew of Kryltzoff.

She quieted down and calmly told him:

"Kryltzoff became very weak on the road and was taken to the
hospital.

Maria Pablovna wanted to become a nurse, but there is no answer yet."

"Well, may I go?" she asked, noticing the Englishman who was waiting
for him.

"I am not yet taking leave of you," said Nekhludoff, holding out his
hand to her.

"Pardon me," she said in a low tone.

Their eyes met, and in that strange, stern look, and in that pitiful
smile, with which she said not "good-by," but "pardon me," Nekhludoff
understood, that of the two suppositions concerning her decision
the latter was the right one.

She still loved him and thought she would mar his life by a union
with him, and would free him by living with Simonson.

She pressed his hand, turned quickly, and left the room.

CHAPTER IX.

Passing through the hall and the ill-smelling corridors, the
superintendent passed into the first building of the prison in
which those condemned to hard labor were confined.

Entering the first room in that building they found the prisoners
stretched on their berths, which occupied the middle of the room.
Hearing the visitors enter they all jumped down, and, clinking
their chains, placed themselves beside their berths, while their
half-shaven heads were distinctly set off against the gloom of the
prison.

Only two of the prisoners remained at their places. One of them
was a young man whose face was evidently heated with fever; the
other was an old man, who never left off groaning.

The Englishman asked whether the young man had been sick for a long
time. The superintendent replied that he had been taken sick that
very same morning, that the old man had had convulsions for a long
time, and that they kept him in prison because there was no place
for him in the hospital.

The Englishman shook his head discontentedly, said that he would like
to say a few words to the prisoners, and asked Nekhludoff to translate
his remarks. It turned out that, besides the aim of his journey, which
was the description of the exile system--he had another one--the
preaching of the gospel, of salvation through faith.

"Tell them that Christ pitied and loved them," he said to Nekhludoff,
"and that He died for them.

He who will believe in Him will be saved."
While he was saying this, all the prisoners were standing erect with
their hands by their sides.

"Tell them," continued the Englishman, "that all I said will be found
in this book. Are there any among them who can read?"

It turned out that there were more than twenty who could.

The Englishman took out a few leather-bound Bibles from his traveling
bag, and soon a number of muscular hands, terminating in long black
nails, were stretched out toward him, pushing each other aside in
order to reach the Testaments.

He left two Testaments in this room, and went to the next one.

There the same thing occurred. There prevailed the same dampness
and ill-smells.

But in this room, between the windows, an image of the Virgin, before
which a small lamp burned dimly, was hung up. To the left side of
the door stood the large vat. Here the prisoners were stretched out on
their berths, and in the same way they rose and placed themselves
in a row. Three of them remained in their places.
Two of these three lifted themselves and sat up, but the third one
remained stretched out, and did not even look at the visitors.

These latter ones were sick. The Englishman addressed them in the
same manner, and left two Testaments.

From the cells in which those condemned to hard labor were imprisoned,
they passed over to the cells of the exiles, and finally those in
which the relatives who escorted the prisoners to Siberia
were awaiting the day appointed to start hence.

Everywhere the same cold, hungry, idling, sickly, degraded, brutalized
human beings could be seen.
The Englishman distributed his Bibles, and, being tired out, he
walked through the rooms saying "All right" to whatever the
superintendent told him concerning the prisons.
They went out into the corridor.
The Englishman, pointing to an open door, asked what that room was
for.

"This is the prison morgue."
"Oh!" exclaimed the Englishman, and he expressed a desire to
enter.
This room was an ordinary room. A small lamp, fastened to the wall,
lit up the four bodies which were stretched on berths, with their
heads toward the wall and the feet protruding toward the door. The
first body, in a plain shirt, was that of a tall young man, with a
small, pointed beard and half-shaven head. The corpse was already
chilled, and its blue hands were folded over the breast. Beside
him, in a white dress and jacket, lay a bare-footed old woman, with
thin hair and wrinkled, yellowish face. Beside this old woman lay
a corpse, attired in blue.
This color recalled something in Nekhludoff's memory.
"And who is this third one?" he asked, mistrusting his own
eyesight.
"This one is a gentleman who was sent hither from the hospital,"
replied the superintendent.
Nekhludoff walked up to the body and touched the icy cold feet of
Kryltzoff.

CHAPTER X.
Nekhludoff, after parting with the Englishman, went straight to his
hotel, and walked about his room for a long time. The affair with
Katiousha was at an end. There was something ugly in the very memory
of it. But it was not that which grieved him. Some other affair of
his was yet unsettled--an affair which tortured him and required
his attention. In his imagination rose the gloomy scenes of the
hundreds and thousands of human beings pent up in the pestiferous
air. The laughter of the prisoners resounded in his ears. He saw
again among the dead bodies the beautiful, angry, waxen face of the
dead Kryltzoff; and the question whether he was mad, or all those
who commit those evils and think themselves wise were mad, bore in
upon his mind with renewed power, and he found no answer to it. The
principal difficulty consisted in finding an answer to the principal
question, which was: What should be done with those who became
brutalized in the struggle for life?
When he became tired walking about the room he sat down on the
lounge, close by the lamp, and mechanically opened the Bible which
the Englishman had presented him, and which he had thrown on the
table while emptying his pockets. They say, he thought, that this
Bible contains the solution to all questions. So, opening it, he
began to read at the place at which it opened itself--Matt. x., 8.
After a while he inclined close to the lamp and became like one
petrified. An exultation, the like of which he had not experienced
for a long time, took possession of his soul, as though, after long
suffering and weariness, he found at last liberty and rest. He did
not sleep the whole night. As is the case with many who read the
Bible for the first time, he now, on reading it again, grasped the
full meaning of words which he had known long ago, but which he had
not understood before.
Like a sponge that absorbs everything, so he absorbed everything
that was important, necessary and joyful.
"That is the principal thing," thought Nekhludoff.Word was finally brought in that Lord Rockstone would see Mr. Edestone
and receive his letters, but regretted that he would be unable to give
him an appointment, as he was leaving for the Continent in a few days
and affairs of state required his entire time--which translated into
plain English meant: "Come in, but get out as soon as you can."

Shown into a large room, he saw seated at a big desk the man who is
said to have said that he did not know when the war would end, but he
did know when it would begin, and fixed that date at about eight
months after the actual declaration--after millions of pounds had been
expended and hundreds of thousands of English dead.

Cold, powerful, relentless, and determined, Edestone knew that it was
useless to appeal to a sense of humanity in this man who, sitting at
his desk early and late, directed the great machine that slowly but
surely was drawing to itself the youth and vigour of all England,
there to feed and fatten, flatter and amuse these poor boys from the
country, and with music and noise destroy their sensibilities before
sending them across the Channel to live for their few remaining days
in holes in the ground that no self-respecting beast would with his
own consent occupy.

To appeal to a sense of duty so strong in him as applied to England,
was one thing; but to convince him that Edestone as an American had a
sense of duty to the nations of Europe was something quite different.
This man of steel had no imagination, he was convinced, and to ask him
to follow him in his flights would be as useless as to request him to
whistle Yankee Doodle.

He had a chance to decide all this while Rockstone, who had risen and
received him with courtesy, was reading the letters he presented. The
great soldier's face never changed once as he read them all with care.

"Your credentials are satisfactory," he finally said, "but I do not
quite understand what it is you wish. Your letters say that you do not
want to sell anything, which is most extraordinary; I thought you
Americans always wanted to sell something." And his face assumed the
expression of a man who, having no sense of humour, thought that he
had perhaps made a joke.

"If you have drawings and photographs of a new instrument of war," he
caught himself up abruptly, "I should greatly prefer that you submit
these to the Ordnance Department; but since your Secretary of State
has been so insistent, I will look at them tomorrow. I will give you
an appointment from 9 to 9:15."

And he rose and bowed.


CHAPTER IV

THE FIRST REBUFF


At exactly a quarter past nine the following morning, Lord Rockstone
with military precision rose from his desk.

"I fear that my time is up, Mr. Edestone," he said, glancing at his
watch. "I have enjoyed this opportunity of meeting you and listening
to your presentation of your theory. Your drawings are most
interesting; your photographs convincing, if--" he paused, his lip
curling slightly under his long tawny moustache,--"if one did not know
of the remarkable optical illusions capable of being produced in
photography. Our friends, the Germans, have become particularly expert
in the art of double exposure."

Then, as if he thought he might have said too much, he added less
crisply:

"Please do not understand that I doubt either your sincerity, or that
of the Government at Washington in this matter; you may have both
perhaps been deceived. I hope that your stay in England may be
pleasant, and I regret that this war will prevent you from receiving
the attention to which your letters and your accomplishments would
entitle you."

With an expression on his face that said plainer than words: "This is
the last minute of my most valuable time that I intend to give to this
nonsense," he bowed formally, and reseating himself at his desk, took
up papers.

Then without looking up, "Good morning, Mr. Edestone."

The American did not allow himself to show the slightest trace of
annoyance at the brusque dismissal.

"You will at least permit me to thank you for your kind intentions,
sir," he said; and standing perfectly still until he had forced Lord
Rockstone to look up, he added with a smile, "We may meet again,
perhaps."

There was something about his perfect ease of manner as he stood
waiting which showed that although he would not condescend to notice
it, he was both conscious of the War Minister's unpardonable rudeness
and intended to make him acknowledge it.

Rockstone hesitated a moment; then with a belated show of courtesy
came from behind his desk, and stiffly extended his hand.

"You Americans are the most extraordinary people," he said; "I must
admit, I never quite understand you."

"Then you must grant us a slight advantage," rejoined Edestone evenly;
"because we believe we do understand you Englishmen. If there had been
the same clear understanding on your side in the present instance it
would have been more to your interest, I am satisfied; for then
instead of merely disturbing you I should have aroused you."

"It is not a question of arousing me as you call it. You are dealing
with the Government of the Empire, and, as you know, England moves
slowly. The suggestion that I invite His Majesty to see a lot of
moving pictures of an impossible machine, if you will pardon me, is
preposterous. If you really wish to sell something to the War
Department, although I understand you to state that you do not,
nothing is simpler. Ship one of your machines to England, give a
demonstration, and whereas I cannot speak with authority, I am
confident that England will pay all that any other Government will
pay. As to our friends, the enemy, our ships will attend to it that
nothing goes to them that can be used against us." His jaws snapped,
and his cold greenish-grey eyes flashed, as he gave another curt bow
of dismissal.

Edestone had no alternative but to leave; but as he turned to rejoin
Colonel Wyatt, who had stood stiffly at attention throughout the
entire interview, he could not resist one parting shot.

"Do not forget, Lord Rockstone," he said, "that England six months ago
spoke lightly of submarines."

The War Minister pretended not to hear; but no sooner had the door
closed upon his offensive visitor than he caught up the
telephone. "Get me the Admiralty, and present my compliments to
Mr. Underhill," he directed sharply. "Tell him I would like to speak
to him at once."

He turned back to a tray of letters left upon his desk to sign, but
halted, his pen held arrested in air.

"Suppose," he muttered, "the fellow should actually have--? But,
pshaw! It's simply a mammoth Yankee bluff. That Foreign Department at
Washington is just silly enough to believe that it can frighten us
with its manufactured photographs. They are so anxious over there to
stop the war, that they would resort to any expedient--anything but
fight."

The telephone tinkled.

"Ah! Are you there Underhill? Yes, this is Rockstone. I called you up
to warn you against a madman who is now on his way to see you. You
can't well refuse to give him an audience, for he has such strong
letters from the American Government that one might imagine he was a
special envoy sent to offer armed intervention and to end the war. But
in my opinion he is merely a crank or an impostor, who has succeeded
in obtaining the support and endorsement of their State Department.

"What is that? Oh yes; he's an American. His name? How should I
remember! I wasn't interested either in him, or what he had to say.
He pretends to have discovered some new agency or force, don't you
know, and tries to prove by a lot of double-exposed photographs that
he has broken down the fundamental laws of physics, neutralizing the
force of gravity, or annihilating space by the polarization of light,
or some such rot.

"Do not kick him out. He has letters not only from his Government, but
from some of its most prominent men whom it would be unwise to offend
at this time. Just listen to his twaddle about universal peace and
that sort of thing, and then pass him on to Graves with a quiet
warning such as I have given you."

Meanwhile Edestone, having taken leave of Colonel Wyatt, was making
his way out of the building, when he found himself accosted in the
dimly lighted corridor by a man in civilian clothes whom he recognized
as a New York acquaintance of several years' standing.

"Well, look who's here!" he greeted Edestone lustily as he extended
his hand. "What brings you into the very den of the lion? Is it that,
like myself, you are helping dear old England get arms and ammunition
with which to lick the barbarians on the Rhine?"

Glancing around cautiously he lowered his voice. "Make her pay well
for them, my boy; she would not hesitate to turn them on us, if we got
in her way."

Edestone laughingly disclaimed any interest in army contracts, but at
the same time avoided divulging the actual mission upon which he was
engaged.

There was something in his companion's manner that put him rather on
his guard; he remembered smoking after dinner not more than three or
four months before in the house of one of the most prominent German
bankers in New York, and listening to this man, who had expressed
himself in a way that might have suggested somewhat pro-German
sympathies. Edestone had at the time attributed this to a
consideration for their host and to the fact that the German
Ambassador was present; but he recalled that, although the speaker was
most violent in his protestations of neutrality, someone had suggested
at the time that he was of a German family, his father having been
born in Hesse-Darmstadt. He was a man of wealth, with establishments
in New York and Newport, at both of which places Edestone had been
entertained. His loud and hearty manner stamped him as a typical
American, but his large frame, handsome face, and military bearing
showed his Teutonic origin.

"You surprise me Rebener." Edestone's eyes twinkled slightly at these
recollections. "I should have supposed, if you had anything of the
kind to sell, that it would be to your friend, Count Bernstoff.
However," he laid his hand on the other's arm, "it's an agreeable
surprise to run across a fellow-countryman, no matter what the cause.
Are you going my way?"

"No," Rebener told him, he had an appointment on hand with one of the
bureau chiefs in the Ordnance Department.

"Well then suppose you dine with me tonight," suggested Edestone. "I
am stopping at Claridge's and shall be awfully glad if you can come. I
am entirely alone in London, you see; my cronies, I find, are all dead
or at the front."

"Delighted, my boy. But listen! Don't have any of your English
swells. Let's make this a quiet little American dinner just to
ourselves, and forget for once this ghastly war."

"At eight o'clock, then," Edestone nodded.

"And a strict neutrality dinner, remember. That is the only safe kind
for us Americans to eat in London."

"All right, Rebener, as neutral as you please. _A bientôt_." And
with a wave of the hand he passed on down the corridor and out of the
building. His appointment with Underhill, Chief of the Admiralty, was
not until 11:30, so he put in the time by sauntering rather slowly
along the Thames Embankment.

He regretted now that, in talking with Lord Rockstone, he had not made
a little more show of force, for had he assumed a more dictatorial
manner he would have at least aroused the fighting spirit in his stern
antagonist, who might then have taken some interest in crushing him
under his heel; whereas now he saw plainly that Rockstone considered
him beneath his notice, and thereby much valuable time had been
lost. Yet he did not wish to make any show of force until he knew
positively that his men were all at their stations, and that the
_Little Peace Maker_ was near at hand. He must be in a position
to use force before playing his last card, and he had not as yet heard
from "Specs." Although he knew that their instruments were perfectly
attuned, he had not, up to twelve o'clock of the day before, received
a single vibration.

At this point he was interrupted by encountering another American who
also insisted upon stopping and shaking hands. This was a young
architect from New York, who had from time to time done work for his
father's estate and who had also made some alterations at the Little
Place in the Country for Edestone himself. He was a tall, lank young
man of about twenty-seven, with little rat-like eyes, placed so close
to his hawk-like nose that one felt Nature would have been kinder to
him had she given him only one eye and frankly placed it in the middle
of his receding forehead. His small blonde moustache did not cover his
rabbit mouth, which was so filled with teeth that he could with
difficulty close his lips.

"What has brought you to London, Schmidt? Aren't you afraid that these
Englishmen will capture you and shoot you as a spy?"

"Sh! Not quite so loud please, Mr. Edestone; these English are such
fools. They think that because a man has a German name he must be a
fighting German, when you know that I am a perfectly good naturalized
American citizen. My passport is made out in the name of Schmidt, and
that's my name all right, but I call myself Smith over here to keep
from rubbing these fellows the wrong way."

"Well, Mr. 'Smith,' you have not told me what you are doing in
London."

"I have been sent over by a New York architectural paper to make a
report upon the condition of the cathedral at Rheims. I stopped over
in London to get my papers viséd by the Royal Institute of
Architects." Then, lowering his voice, and keeping his eyes on a
policeman who was apparently watching them with interest: "I am sorry
to see you here, Mr. Edestone. This is no place for us Americans, and
my advice to you is to get out of here as soon as you can, and don't
come back again until the war is over."

Edestone felt that he would have said more but they were interrupted
by the policeman who said: "Excuse me, gentlemen, but these be war
times, and me ordhers are to keep the Imbankment moving."


CHAPTER V

ECHOES FROM THE WILHELMSTRASSE


After leaving the War Offices, Rebener went directly to the nearest
public telephone.

"Hello, Karlbeck," he called, after satisfying himself by mumbling a
jumble of unintelligible words and numbers that he had the man he
wanted on the wire. "Is Smith there? What? Thames Embankment? What did
you say is the number of that officer? Oh, my old butler, Pat! That's
all right. Now listen; if I should miss Smith and he comes in, tell
him to call me at my hotel at once. I have made an engagement for
dinner with our man for eight o'clock tonight, but you and H. R. H.
need not be at my rooms until half-past eight. You understand, eh?
Good-bye."

He strolled out, following Edestone's course with the air of a man
wishing to enjoy this beautiful spring morning, and approaching the
officer who had interrupted the interview between Edestone and Smith,
he said, with a little twinkle in his eye: "Will you tell me which of
these bridges is called the London Bridge?"

The blue-coated Pat, with Hibernian readiness, caught the humour of
the situation. "Shure, I would gladly, but 'tis a strhanger I am here
mesilf," he grinned as he smothered the entire lower part of his face
with his huge paw of a hand, and significantly closed one eye.

"Pat, your fondness for joking will get you into trouble yet. Did
Smith turn Edestone over to you?"

"He did, and I mesilf took him up to the Admiralty where he is
now. 4782, I think they called him, takes him up from there, and will
keep him until he hears from either you or Smith."

"Where has Smith gone?"

"Shure he's up at Claridge's, bein' shaved by Count von Hottenroth."

"Now, now, Pat, if you don't stop that joking of yours I'll certainly
report you to the Wilhelmstrasse."

"And they said I was to be the first King of dear old Ireland!" as
with a broad grin on his face he raised his hand as if drinking. "Der
Tag!" he cried, thereby causing several passers-by to laugh at the
idea of a London bobby giving the sacred German toast.

Rebener, leaving him, went directly to his rooms at The Britz where he
was received with the greatest consideration by everybody about the
place. He was shown to the royal suite by the proprietor himself, who
after he had carefully closed the door upon them stood as if waiting
for orders.

"Call Claridge's on the 'phone, and tell Smith who is being shaved,"
he smiled at the recollection of Pat's jest, "to meet me here at
once. I do not want him seen in the hotel, so tell him to come in by
the servants' entrance, and you bring him up on the service elevator
and in here through my pantry and dining-room."

The proprietor retired to attend to this, but was soon back, and
Rebener continued his instructions.

"Luckily Edestone invited me to dine with him tonight before I had a
chance to invite him," he said, "but I will persuade him to come here
and dine with me."

"So, Mr. Bombiadi," he turned to the proprietor, "I shall want dinner
here for four at 8:30. See to it yourself, will you, that my guests
are brought through my private entrance, and one especially--you know
who--who will be incognito, must not be recognized. Not that there
could be any objection to these men dining with me here--a common rich
American, who loves to spend his money on princes and things--but by
tonight this man Edestone will be watched by at least twenty men from
Scotland Yard, and they suspect anyone of being a German spy, be he
prince or pauper."

Their conversation was interrupted at this point by the arrival of
Smith, who came in very much excited. Sniffling and rubbing his nose
with the back of his forefinger, like a nervous cocaine fiend, he
broke out agitatedly:

"Mr. Rebener, I'm getting sick of this job. When I undertook to find
out for you what was going on at the Little Place in the Country, I
was working for Germany as against the world, and anything that I can
do for her I am glad and proud to do, but that Hottenroth talks like a
damn fool. Excuse me, Mr. Rebener, but he don't want to stop at
anything. He says that if he pulls off this thing the Emperor, when he
gets to London, will make him Duke of Westminster, or something, and
six months from now he will appoint me Governor-General of North
America. I tell you, Mr. Rebener, that fellow is plumb nutty."

"Pardon me, Mr. Rebener," interposed the proprietor, "it is true that
Hottenroth is excitable, but he is faithful to the Fatherland and an
humble servant to His Imperial Majesty. He has been in charge of a
fixed post in London for fifteen years. He was one of the very first
to be sent here, and he was in Paris before that. He would die
willingly for the Fatherland, as would I, and if this Schmidt, I mean
Smith, thinks there is any sin too great to be committed for the
Fatherland, he is not worthy of a place among us, and the sooner we
get rid of him the better." And he looked at the unfortunate Smith in
a way that showed he was willing to do this at any moment.

But Rebener, who had lived all his life in America, and like Smith did
not thoroughly agree with the philosophy of German militarism--before
which everything must bow--hurriedly raised his hand.

"Come, come, you are both getting unnecessarily excited. Don't let us
try to cross our bridges until we get to them. What did von Hottenroth
have to report?"

"It was not very satisfactory, to tell you the truth, Mr. Rebener,"
said Smith; "they searched through all of his things and they found
nothing but a drawing of a Zeppelin of our 29-M type, with some slight
changes, which Hottenroth said don't amount to anything, and some
photographs of Mr. Edestone himself, doing some juggling tricks with
heavy dumb-bells and weights, but we learned afterwards from the
porter that an expressman had left two large and heavy trunks marked,
'A. M. Black and P. S. Stanton,' at No. 4141 Grosvenor Square East."

"Well what is the report," demanded Bombiadi, "on No. 4141 Grosvenor
Square?"

Smith read from a memorandum book: "Lord Lindenberry, who is a
widower, lives there with his mother, the Dowager. The old lady is now
up at their country place, in Yorkshire, and the Marquis went on to
Aldershot last night after having dined with Edestone at Brooks's and
dropping him at Claridge's at 12:15 A.M. The house is only partially
opened; there are only a few of the old servants there."

"And do you think these trunks contain the instrument which you
reported to us from America was always kept in the safe at the Little
Place in the Country?" snapped the hotel proprietor.

"I don't know," whined Smith. "Mr. Edestone probably has it with him."

"Well, we must get hold of it before he shows it to Underhill,"
frowned the proprietor, "that is, if it has not been shown already,
and in that case we must get hold of Edestone himself."

"Now that is exactly what is troubling me," Smith's voice rose
hysterically. "I'm not going to stand for any of that rough stuff,
Mr. Rebener. Mr. Edestone and his father have both been mighty good to
me, and if anything happens to him I'll blow on the whole lot of you."

"So?" The proprietor's pale fat face was convulsed with a look of
hatred and contempt. "Then we are to understand, Smith, that if we
find it necessary to do away with Edestone you wish to go first? You
dirty little half-breed," he growled in an undertone. "Your mother
must have been an English woman."

"Here, here, you two fools!" Rebener broke in with sharp authority,
"there is no question of 'doing away' with Edestone, as you call
it. What we're after is the invention and not the man himself, and
we'll not get it by 'doing away' with him. I am, like Smith here,
opposed to murder, even for the Fatherland."

"But it is not murder, Mr. Rebener," interrupted the proprietor, "if
thereby we are instrumental in saving thousands of the sons of the
Fatherland."

"That would not only not save the sons of the Fatherland, but would
put an end to our usefulness, both here in London and in America,
especially if Edestone has already turned the whole thing over to
England. The very first thing for us to do is to find out how the
matter stands. If the Ministry knows nothing, we must work to get him
to Berlin, and then even you fire-eaters may safely trust it to the
Wilhelmstrasse. If it should happen, however, that the British
Government has the invention, His Royal Highness tonight will try to
get enough out of Edestone to enlighten Berlin, and in that way we
shall at least get an even break. That is, always provided that
Edestone has not a lot of the completed articles, whatever they may
be, at the Little Place in the Country. That would put us in bad
again, and it will be up to Count Bernstoff to attend to it from the
New York end."

"Of course, Mr. Rebener," said the proprietor, "we can do nothing
until we hear from His Royal Highness, but I am satisfied that he will
say Edestone must not be allowed to go to Downing Street tomorrow to
continue his negotiations, unless in some way we can get hold of this
secret tonight."

"Well, I'll be damned if I'll--!" started Rebener angrily, when he was
interrupted by the proprietor, who holding his finger to his lip,
said:

"Please, Mr. Rebener, please! Always remember that the service on
which we are engaged has no soul and a very long arm." Then dropping
into the persuasive and servile tone of the _maître d'hôtel_: "I
propose, Mr. Rebener, that you allow me to send you up a nice little
lunch, some melon, say, a _salmon mayonnaise_ or a _filet du
sole au vin blanc_ and a _noisette d'agneau_ and a nice little
sweet, and you must try a bottle of our Steinberger Auslese '84.

"And Smith," he turned to the humbler agent, "you had better get in
touch with 4782, who is reporting to His Royal Highness every hour.
His last message was that Edestone is still with Underhill, so you get
down to the Admiralty and report to me here as often as you can.
Edestone will probably lunch quietly alone somewhere, as I know that
all of his friends are at the front, but don't lose him until you turn
him over to Mr. Rebener tonight at 8 o'clock." His eyes narrowed as
they followed the skulking figure of the architect out of the room.

"That fellow needs watching," he muttered to Rebener. "He has lost his
nerve. He is not a true German anyhow. But if he makes a false step,
4782 knows what to do and you can depend upon him to do it. We do not
know who he is, but he is a gentleman, if not a nobleman, and he will
kill or die for his Emperor."

Smith, in the meantime, had gone down the service stairs and out at
the rear of the hotel. He was thoughtful, and when he was settled in
his taxi, after having directed the chauffeur where to drive, he said
to himself:

"They are going to kill him tonight unless they get that machine, or
else can fix it so that Rockstone doesn't get it tomorrow, that is if
Underhill hasn't got it already. I wish I'd never started this
business; I never thought it would go so far, and what do I get out of
it? A German decoration which I can't wear in America, and God knows I
don't want to live in Germany, and seventeen dollars a week. I'm not
going to stand for it, and that's settled."

Arriving in front of a little restaurant he entered and sat down at a
table near a window looking out on Whitehall Place. The proprietor,
who was another German, came over to him, and while ostensibly
arranging the cloth spoke to him in an undertone in his own language.

"Edestone is still with Underhill," he said. "The taxi driver on the
stand opposite, the one who looks as if he were asleep, is 4782. In
that way he keeps the head of the line, you see, and when Edestone
comes out, if he doesn't take that cab, 4782 can follow him until he
alights again, and then he is to telephone His Royal Highness. So you
sit here and have lunch, where you can see what is going on."

Then, turning to a group of his regular customers at another table,
the jovial host in a loud voice and in perfect English took a violent
pro-Ally part in the war discussion that was going on.


CHAPTER VI

A RUSTY OLD CANNON-BALL


Edestone had met the Honorable Herbert Underhill before, both in
America and in the country houses of England. The two were about the
same age, and as Underhill's mother was an American, Edestone had
hoped that he would not have quite so much trouble in getting him to
look at the matter from an American point of view.

Underhill, however, was just on that account a little bit more formal
with the cousins from across the sea than were most of the men of high
position in Europe. He was undoubtedly taken aback and thrown off his
guard when he found that Edestone was the dangerous American lunatic
of whom he had been warned. In the first place, he knew that there was
not the slightest chance of his being an impostor, and he also knew
exactly how much of a lunatic he was. He knew, in fact, that he was a
hard-riding, clear-thinking, high-minded Anglo-Saxon of the very best
type to be found A Rusty Old Cannon-Ball anywhere, and he smiled as he
thought of Rockstone's advice not to kick him out of the Admiralty.

With considerable show of cordiality, he invited his visitor into a
small room adjoining his large office, and sat him down at the
opposite side of a wide table.

"Lord Rockstone told me you were coming, but did not mention your
name. He is quite a chap, that Rockstone. Not what you Americans would
call a very chatty party, however. Now what can I do for you? Lord
Rockstone tells me that you have some new invention, or something of
the sort, that will help us to finish up this little scrimmage without
the loss of a single Tommy. Well, that is exactly what we are looking
for, and you American chaps are clever at thinking out new ideas. He
tells me, however, that you do not wish to sell it. Now I can
understand better than he why that part would be of no especial
interest to you; but can't we deal with a Syndicate, or a Board of
Underwriters, a Holding Company, or some of those wonderful business
combinations that you Americans devise in order to do business without
going to jail? Is the poor starving inventor some billionaire like
yourself, who works only for honour and glory? In that case we might
get an Iron Cross for him. In fact, we might get one blessed by the
Emperor himself, by Jove!"

Edestone laughed. "Well, Mr. Underhill, you cannot deny inheriting a
certain amount of American wit. I have so often heard the older
members of the Union Club tell stories of Billy Travers's witty
sayings. He must have gone the pace that kills. One of the old
servants used to tell that whenever Travers and Larry Jerome and that
set came in for supper, they expected the waiters to drink every fifth
bottle; it made things more cheerful-like--but _revenons à nos
moutons_. Lord Rockstone is right, I do not want to sell my
discovery, for mine it is. I am the penniless inventor. I only want an
opportunity of showing it to the heads of the Powers that are now at
war, and of demonstrating to them the stupendous and overwhelming
force that is now practically in the hands of the greatest of the
neutral governments, and thus try, if possible, to convince them of
the uselessness of continuing this loss of life and treasure.

"If I could demonstrate to you, Mr. Underhill, that I could, sitting
here in your office, give an order that would set London on fire and
send every ship in the English navy to the bottom in the course of a
few weeks, would you not advocate opening negotiations for peace? And
were I to show the Emperor of Germany that his great army could be
destroyed in even less time, would he not be more receptive than we
now understand him to be?"

"Why, Mr. Edestone, I most certainly should," the First Lord of the
Admiralty granted with a smile, "and I think that perhaps the German
Emperor would be amenable under the circumstances, but as they say in
your great country, 'I am from Missouri, you must show me.'"

He changed his position and glanced at Edestone as if he were
beginning to think that possibly Rockstone might be right in his
estimate after all.

"Very well, Mr. Underhill; it is now five minutes to noon, and I think
that I will be able to show you in exactly five minutes."

He took from his pocket a leather case, such as a woodsman might use
to carry a large pocket compass, and removing the cover set out upon
the table an instrument that was entirely enclosed in vulcanized
rubber. On the top, under glass, was a dial, with a little needle
which vibrated violently, but came to a standstill soon after being
placed on the table. Two small platinum wires, about twelve inches
long and carefully insulated, issued from opposite sides of the hard
rubber casing.

Underhill's face at first bore only an expression of mild amusement,
but as Edestone evidenced such a deadly earnestness, he showed more
interest and said with a rather nervous laugh: "Look here, old chap,
don't blow the entire English navy out of the water while you're
closeted here with me. I must have some witness to prove that I didn't
do it or I might have to explain to the House of Commons."

Edestone, a hard and drawn look about his mouth, paid no heed, but
taking his watch out of his pocket fixed his eye on the little needle
of the instrument and waited as the last few seconds of the hour
ticked off. As the second hand made its last round, and the minute
hand swung into position exactly at twelve, he leaned over the table
as if trying by mental suggestion to make the instrument respond to
his will. But it remained perfectly quiescent, and with a half sigh
and a tightening of the lines about his mouth, he closed his
watch. Could it be possible, he thought, that "Specs" had forgotten
his instructions always to use Greenwich time?

He was about to replace the instrument in its case, when he was
startled by a clock on the mantel, which began to strike the hour of
twelve. Involuntarily he counted the strokes as they chimed slowly,
and as the vibrations of the last stroke faded away the little needle
swung an entire circuit of the dial, returning to its original
position. This was repeated three times.

Underhill, although still interested in what was going on, seemed a
bit relieved when nothing more startling happened.

"Oh, I say, you know, you gave me quite a start," he jested. "I
thought that you were going to set London on fire, and you simply seem
to be taking your blood-pressure."

Edestone still paid not the slightest attention to him, but after
glancing about the room walked over to the mantelpiece where he picked
up an old twelve-inch cannon-ball, which with considerable difficulty
he brought back and placed on the table by the side of his
instrument. His eyes once more roved about the room as if he were
seeking something, and stepping deliberately to a passe-partout
photograph of King George V., he ripped off the binding with his
pocket-knife and tore from it the glass.

"Oh, I say, now, Mr. Edestone, those cow-boy methods don't go here in
London, and if you cannot behave a bit more like a gentleman, I'll
have you shown to the street."

"We have more important matters on our hands just now, Mr. Underhill,
than whether or not I am a gentleman," snapped the American, his face
set and serious as he with nervous fingers laid the glass on the
table.

Rolling the cannon-ball to him, he lifted it very gently on to the
glass plate, and then taking a key from his pocket he appeared to wind
up on the inside of the instrument some mechanism which gave off a
buzzing sound. Next he drew on a pair of rubber gloves with vulcanized
rubber finger tips, and moistening with his lips the ends of the two
platinum wires, pressed them to either side of the ball, first the one
and then the other. A spark was given off when the second contact was
made, and the room was filled with a pungent odour as of overheated
metal which caused both men to cough violently.

Following this, with great care, and using only the tips of his
fingers, he lifted the glass plate with the ball on it. When he had
raised it his arm's length above the table, like a plum pudding on a
platter, he took the glass away, leaving the ball hanging unsupported
in the air.

He sat down and smiled across the table into the astonished, almost
incredulous, face of his companion.

"And now, Mr. Underhill, I hope you will pardon my rudeness," he
apologized lightly; "but I get so interested in these little tricks of
mine that sometimes I forget myself. If you will permit me, I shall,
when I go to Paris, order from Cartiers's a more befitting frame for
His Majesty, and shall beg you to accept it from me as a little
souvenir of our meeting today."

Underhill made no reply. His whole attention was riveted on that
amazing ball, and Edestone, a trifle mischievously, added: "If you
have a perfectly good heart, and think you can stand a bit of a shock,
touch that ball lightly with your finger."

"My heart's all right, and I am prepared for anything," Underhill
surrendered, as he reached up and touched the innocent looking rusty
old cannon-ball, whose only peculiarity seemed to be its willingness
to remain where it was without any visible means of support.

The room was suddenly filled with a greenish light, as if someone had
just taken a flash-light photograph. Underhill was thrown violently
back into his chair, and the ball crashed down on the table, splitting
it from end to end.

Without moving a muscle of his face, and taking no notice of the
gestures of pain made by Underhill as he sat rubbing his arm and
shoulder, Edestone resumed:

"Mr. Underhill, I will not take any more of your valuable time to show
you my drawings and photographs, but I beg you to say to Sir Egbert
Graves that you do not think with Lord Rockstone that the American
Secretary of State has been deceived, and that you hope he will, when
he sees me tomorrow, try to forget for a while that he is an
Englishman and be a little bit human. You know, Underhill, confidence
and pigheadedness are not even connected by marriage; much less are
they blood relations. By Jove," he grinned, "you can tell him I'll
stick him up against the ceiling if he insists upon handling me with
the ice tongs and leave him there until you take him down; that is, if
you care to take another little shock."

Underhill, although he might have thought at another time that it was
his duty to resent such light and frivolous reference to the heads of
His Majesty's Government, was now, however, occupied with more serious
reflections, and overlooked the offence.

"I am sure," he said, rousing himself, "that if Sir Egbert is
convinced that you are working for the sake of humanity he will be
most happy to make use of your talents."

"That is exactly what I want him to do," returned Edestone, "but not
in the way in which you mean. I wish to be given authority to open
negotiations for peace with the Emperor of Germany. Now,
Mr. Underhill, do we understand one another?"

He rose to leave with this, but Underhill, stepping quickly forward,
laid a hand upon his arm.

"You don't suppose for a moment, Mr. Edestone, that we will allow you
to leave England and go to Germany to sell them your invention and
have it used against us?"

"You have my word, Mr. Underhill, and that of the American Secretary
of State, that it is not my intention to sell to any government. With
that assurance, unless your Ministry wishes to risk the chances of war
with the United States, I think it will allow me to leave England and
go anywhere I please. Good-morning, Mr. Underhill. I am sorry to have
taken up so much of your valuable time, even more sorry to have broken
His Majesty's beautiful old oak table."


CHAPTER VII

DIPLOMACY WINS


Underhill, left alone, sat for some moments looking from the broken
table to the cannonball and then back again. Finally he picked up a
fragment of glass, for the Royal face protector had likewise been
broken, when the good old English oak had met its defeat at the hands
of this Hun of the world of science, and with it, very gingerly, he
tapped the iron ball--this rusty old barbarian which had set at naught
the force of gravity, had violated all the established laws of nature,
and had like the Germans in Belgium smashed through.

Finding that nothing happened, he hesitated for a moment, and, then,
bracing himself against the shock, he touched his finger gently to
this rude old paradox. There was no shock, and, reassured, he leaned
across the table and tried with both hands to lift the cannon-ball.

"That part is genuine there is no doubt," he granted. "That old
cannon-ball must have been here since--?" He gave a start as his eyes
caught the inscription pasted upon it, which was:

    "A freak cannon-ball, made at the Forge
    and Manor of Greenwood, Virginia, 1778.
    Presented in 1889 to Lord Roberts by
    General George Bolling Anderson, Governor
    of the State of Virginia."

"How extraordinary!" he exclaimed. "These Americans are popping up at
every turn."

He passed out into the large outer office, and, glancing at his watch,
summoned an undersecretary.

"It is now just a quarter after twelve," he said, "and the Cabinet
lunches at Buckingham Palace at two. Present my compliments to Lord
Rockstone and Sir Egbert Graves, and say that I should like to see
them both here for a few minutes on a matter of the greatest
importance, and that much as I regret to trouble them it is absolutely
necessary that this meeting be held in my office and before they go on
to the Palace."

To another attendant who, moved by curiosity, was going in the
direction of the smaller room, he said: "Place a sentry at that door
when I leave. No one is to be allowed to enter that room until I give
further orders."

A telephone orderly came in a few minutes later to say that his
message had found Lord Rockstone and Sir Egbert Graves together, and
that they both would be with him within the half-hour.

Underhill was now fully convinced that Edestone possessed some
wonderful invention or discovery which the United States intended to
use as a final argument for peace, and, with the aid of this
discovery, render untenable any position in opposition to its will
taken by England or any of the other Powers. Had he dreamed that the
United States was as ignorant as to the nature of this invention as he
himself was, the history of the world might have been changed.

When Graves and Rockstone arrived, he greeted them with serious face
and at once drew them into private conference.

"Gentlemen," he said, "I am sorry to have to trouble you to come to
me, but I am confident that you will forgive me when you understand my
reasons for insisting upon a meeting here." Keeping both men still
standing he continued: "I have a strange story to tell, so strange in
fact, that you gentlemen would be justified in doubting not only my
word but my sanity, had I nothing to show you in corroboration."

Both men stood like graven images; one like a soldier at attention;
the other, his hat and cane in his right hand and the tips of his two
first fingers resting lightly on the table behind which Underhill was
standing, his thin, clean-shaven, mask-like face as expressionless as
if it belonged to a head that had been stuck on the end of a pike and
shoved out across the table for Underhill to look at, instead of to
one well placed on his broad athletic shoulders. They both knew that
Underhill was young and had inherited from his beautiful American
mother a nervous and temperamental disposition. They also knew that
this was tempered by the crafty cleverness of the blood of the hero of
Blenheim. They had come prepared for one of his excitable outbursts,
although they knew he would not have been so insistent had there not
been good cause.

"Will you be so kind as to walk into this room with me?" He pointed
toward the door of the small room.

Still with that show of utter imperturbability the two complied,
continuing to gaze stolidly as their associate, closing the door
behind them, called their attention to the cannon-ball and broken
table.

"Exhibits A and B"; he waved his hand toward the two objects. "I
wanted you to see these in order to convince you that I have neither
been dreaming, nor am I the victim of an aberration."

Then with great care and endeavouring to maintain a semblance of
self-possession, he described his recent experience, omitting no
single detail that he could recall. He showed them exactly where and
how he had been sitting, and followed every movement made by Edestone,
even to the ripping of the glass from the portrait of the King, until
finally, as if overcome by the strain that he had put upon himself to
appear perfectly calm, he ended with a nervous little laugh.

"Will you look at the inscription on that blooming old cannon-ball? It
really seems quite spooky."

Graves moved forward and thoughtfully examined the split table and the
rusty old relic of Valley Forge, but Rockstone did not offer to stir.
With what was almost a sneer on his face he met the challenging glance
of his younger confrère.

"I would not have believed, Underhill," he said impatiently, "that you
with your experience with the fakirs of India could have been taken in
by so old a trick." He half-closed his eyes as if to indicate that for
him at least the incident was closed.

Underhill frowned. "You are wrong, Rockstone," he exclaimed
impulsively. "This man is no faker, nor am I so easily imposed upon as
you seem to think. I tell you that we are called upon to deal with a
new agency that can neither be disputed nor sneered away, and unless
we can contrive some way to oppose it, the United States will step in
and force a peace upon us--a peace that will leave Europe exactly
where it was before the war--and keep it so, while she herself can go
ahead unchecked and take possession of the whole Western
Hemisphere. Don't you see the scheme?"

"Where is this extraordinary individual?" inquired the Foreign
Minister, completing his inspection of the table. "What has become of
him?" His thin voice was as evenly modulated as if he were asking
where he had put his other glove.

"Oh, probably at Boodle's or Brookes's lunching with some of his
friends," Underhill answered indifferently. "He left here only a short
time ago. And you need not be afraid, Sir Egbert," with a significant
glance. "A very careful eye is being kept upon his movements. We can
get him at any moment if we want him."

Graves nodded, and then went on meditatively.

"It is of course entirely irregular," he said, "but from what both of
you gentlemen tell me as to the nature of his credentials, there can
be little doubt that the man is here with the approval of his
Government, if not as an authorized representative. The sole question,
therefore, is whether or not he does possess such an invention or
discovery as he claims----"

"But can you doubt that?" demanded Underhill hotly.

"And whether," proceeded Sir Egbert without change of tone, "granting
that the contrivance is of value, the United States will permit its
purchase for use in the present war.

"On the first proposition, I can only say that if he has this
invention, as my young friend of the Navy stands so firmly convinced,
it is tantamount to admitting that the United States has a new and
terrible instrument of war, in which case it would be most unwise to
offend her. If he has not, there certainly can be no objection to
allowing him the opportunity of offering to our enemies something that
is of no value. Therefore, that seems to settle the question as to the
advisability of detaining him, as has been suggested. I should
strongly favour letting him go when and where he pleases.

"Assuming that he has in his possession facts or mechanisms that would
give to one nation such stupendous advantages over the others as he
claims, we must not forget that the United States has had these facts
and mechanisms for some time. Therefore, it would be ill-advised to
detain him forcibly, for the United States' answer to this would be a
declaration of war in which the superiority of her position would be
overwhelming.

"I'm inclined to believe that the reason he does not wish to sell his
discovery is because he has not obtained permission from his
Government to do so. They intend to dispose of it to the country with
whom they can make the most favourable bargain. I think indeed that
under all circumstances the best policy for this Government is to
treat this man with the greatest possible consideration. If he has the
power to do us harm, we must put him in such a position that he will
not wish to do it; and if he has not, our treatment of him will have a
tendency to draw the United States nearer to us than she is at
present. We must, at least, pretend to take the American Secretary of
State at his word. Whereas I do not think that there is any doubt that
America is influenced entirely by selfish motives, she is now our
friend, and as long as this war goes on it is to the interest of Great
Britain to keep her so."

"A very good idea, Sir Egbert," agreed Underhill. "That is absolutely
the only way to deal with this man. He says that he is almost a pure
Anglo-Saxon, you know, and he is as proud of it as if he were an
Englishman. He is the ninth in direct line from the original old chap,
or rather young chap, who went from England to Virginia in 1642. Think
of it! Say what you may, blood is thicker than water. That fellow is
at heart an Englishman; he has been away from home nearly three
hundred years."

Graves gave a little bow of comprehension. "When Mr. Edestone calls on
me tomorrow," he said, "I shall not even touch on the question of the
purchasing of this alleged invention, but shall offer to facilitate in
every way his mission as peacemaker. I shall take him at his word that
he does not intend to sell to any one, and try to persuade him that,
if he is bent on coercing any people, the English are not the ones
that require this, as they are in perfect accord with him, and that he
would accomplish his purpose much more quickly if he would bring force
to bear upon the German Emperor."

"But, Sir Egbert," broke in Underhill excitedly, "he says that he
wants us to authorize him to open peace negotiations with the Kaiser,
and I think he rather intimated that if we should refuse he would use
force, which of course means the United States."

"Well upon my word!" Rockstone's eyes flashed, and an indignant
expression took the place of the rather bored look with which he had
been listening. "That is pretty strong language to use to His Imperial
Majesty's Government, and for my part I think that this young
gentleman and his little trick box should be shipped back home with a
very polite but emphatic note to the effect that when England wishes
the good offices of the United States in bringing this war to a close,
she will call for them. As to the young man himself, I should say to
him that if he were caught trying to get into Germany he would be
looked upon as a spy endeavouring to render assistance to the enemy,
and would be treated accordingly."

"But wait a moment, Rockstone," said Sir Egbert. "You are forgetting
that this Mr. Edestone is in some measure at least the representative
of his country. We cannot afford to offend the United States of
America, even though his manners are bad."

"To the contrary," muttered Underhill, "his manners are surprisingly
good."

Sir Egbert slightly inclined his head in acknowledgment of the
correction. "There is the point too," he went on, "as to whether or
not he is an impostor. If he is, why should we allow the American
comic papers to put us in the same category with their own Secretary
of State, at whom they have been poking fun for years, when they
discover that this exceedingly clever young man has taken us in also?

"No, no, to me the matter seems very simple. Uncle Sam has got
something he wants to sell. Good or bad it makes no difference; he
wants to sell, and sell it he will to the highest bidder. Why refuse
to consider his offer on the one hand, or why appear to be too anxious
to close with him on the other? Let him offer it to the enemy; he will
certainly come back for our bid before closing with them."

"Do you know, Sir Egbert," Lord Rockstone somewhat reluctantly allowed
himself to be won over, "since you put it that way I think that
perhaps you are right. Diplomacy is probably the strongest weapon with
which to deal with this young man. He did not impress me as one to be
easily bluffed by show of force."

"Nor should I be bluffed, even by you, Rockstone," said Underhill
somewhat ruefully, rubbing his arm, "if I had the power that this chap
has locked up in that little rubber box and stored away in that long
head of his."

"Well, let us make a decision: does His Majesty go to Washington or
shall the Chautauqua lecturer extend his professional tours to include
London?" Graves gave his sly secretive laugh. Then as if ashamed of
his momentary levity, and changing his entire manner, he said: "Well,
gentlemen, what do you propose?"

"I rather think we are unanimous," said Underhill, "in considering
that Mr. Edestone should be given a fair hearing. The final answer to
his proposition can be given, of course, only after it has been
discussed in full cabinet."

"That would perhaps be the best way to leave the matter," approved
Rockstone.

"We are agreed then, it seems," said Graves, and they left together
for Buckingham Palace.


CHAPTER VIII

THE SPY-DRIVEN TAXI


On coming out of the Admiralty, Edestone, a trifle preoccupied, was
about to take the taxi with the rather sleepy driver which stood at
the head of the line. But the thought came to him, where shall I go?
As he had told Rebener, none of his pals were in town and he had
absolutely nothing to do until dinner at eight o'clock. Why not take
lunch at some quiet little place in the neighbourhood?

"I say, cabby, is there any sort of a decent restaurant around here
where one can get a very nice little lunch?"

"Yes, sir, thank you, sir"; the chauffeur rather abruptly came into
full possession of his faculties. "There is a very neat little place
right across the road, sir, thank you, sir," and he pointed in the
direction of the window at which Schmidt was sitting.

"Ah, thank you, cabby," said Edestone in his usual kind manner with
people of that class. He was rather struck by the handsome face of the
man, although it was covered over with grease and grime. "Here is a
shilling. Don't you think I might be able to walk that far this
beautiful day?"

"Yes, sir, thank you, sir." The man showed no appreciation of the
humour. "Would you be wanting a cab later on, sir? If so I'll just
hang about, sir. Times is hard in these war times, sir."

"Certainly, wait by all means," said Edestone with a jolly laugh. "Set
your clock. Now open your door and drive me to that restaurant over
there, and then wait for me till I have had my lunch. By the time that
I get through with you I think you will find that you have done a good
day's work."

"I am sure of it, sir." The chauffeur hid a surreptitious chuckle with
his very dirty hand.

In some places it was rather broad and deep, and in other places it was
shallow, and ran murmuring over the stones at the bottom.

Tom said that it would be very pleasant to go along the stream, sometimes
on one side, and sometimes on the other, far into the wood, and to
look for birds' nests.

The sun was shining very brightly, the trees were in full leaf,
the grass was thick and green, sweet flowers were blooming on all
sides, butter-flies and dragon-flies sported in the sunshine, and
birds were singing on every bush and tree.

All things seemed to be joyful, and the two boys started off briskly,
with Carlo after them.

But of this party, the only one that was truly happy, was Carlo.
He had nothing to do but to obey his master, and this he had done
when John had called him away from his home.

John tried to raise his own spirits, and ran, and jumped about, and
romped with Carlo.

But he could not forget that he had done wrong, that he ought to have
been at school, and that he should grieve his kind parents when
they knew what he was now doing.
The thought of this would come into his mind, and kept him from being
happy. As for Tom Jones, he seemed merry enough, though he not
only knew that he was doing wrong himself, but that he had led
John into mischief.

He tried to forget this, and laughed and shouted with all his might; but
it was in vain, and he had bitter feelings at the bottom of his heart
all the time.

[Illustration: AFFECTION]
They went on rambling till they had got more than a mile into the
wood.

The stream here was wide and deep. On one side of it there grew an old
willow, and in one of the branches of this, they saw a wren's nest.
As Tom was the stronger boy of the two, it was agreed that he should
help John up to the branch, so that he might reach the nest. John got
upon the branch, and he had put out his hand to take hold of the
nest, when the branch broke off, and down he fell into the water.

Tom laughed at this, for he knew that the stream was not deep enough
to drown him: but Carlo rushed in and dragged his master by the clothes
towards the bank.
John scrambled out, but he was covered with mud. Tom helped him to
take off his clothes, and clean off the mud and dry them; but with
all they could do, John was still in a sad mess, and as it was now
late in the day, he turned to go home with a heavy heart.

When he reached the cottage, he found his father and mother in great
alarm, as they could not think what had become of him. When they
found out what had taken place, their alarm was changed into grief,
on account of the son whom they loved so much, having done wrong.

John himself cried a great deal, and said that he was more vexed because
he had caused them grief, than he should have been, if they had
scolded and whipped him. His mother told him that she left it to his
own heart to scold him, and that he should go to his bed-room and
pray to God on his knees to forgive him, as she had taught him to
pray.

John did as she bade him, and he prayed to God with all his heart.
He then went to sleep with a quiet mind; and when he awoke the next
morning, he prayed again that God would give him strength to do his
duty, and to stand firm when he should be tempted again as he had
been by Tom Jones. He then read a chapter in the Bible to his mother,
and went to school. His master kept him in, and gave him only
a piece of bread and a cup of water for dinner. But he did not suffer
nearly so much from this as he had done from having grieved his dear
parents; for he had before this been brought to repent, and he
felt that God, and his father and mother, had forgiven him.

John Cooper never again grieved his father and mother by doing wrong,
and never forgot the lesson he had learned, when Tom Jones led
him astray, as long as he lived.

[Illustration: SUNDAY MORNING]
When John Cooper became a man, there were bad times, and he could
not get a living at the trade to which he had been brought up: so
he went for a horse-soldier.

And before he went, his father and mother gave him their blessing,
and he prayed with all his heart that God would bless the old people,
and preserve them; and said he would let them have as much of his
pay as ever he could.

It was a sad day for him and his parents when he went away. They had
never been parted for so long a time before, and he was now going
to India, from whence he could not return for some years.

But they could not help it; so they all said that it was God's
will that they should part, and it was their duty to bear it as
well as they could.

After John was gone, the old people never missed a day but they prayed
to God to keep their son, both in his soul and body, from all evil.
They were very poor, and were now too old to work much; but with
what they got of John's pay, they had enough just to live upon, and
above all they had thankful hearts, which made them happy. Yet they
often wished for John's return; sometimes too they were fearful lest
he should be killed or wounded in the wars; but when they felt
thus, they always tried to put their trust in God.

When John had been away ten years, he came back one day, safe
and sound, as his father and mother were standing at the door of
the cottage.

You may judge how they all felt, and how many questions his fond
mother asked him, as to where he had been, and how he had got
on.

The next day was Sunday, and both John and his parents were glad of it,
for they wished to go to church to offer up their thanks to God, who
had kept John safe through many dangers, had saved the lives of
the old people, and had now brought them to each other again.

It was a fine bright morning in Spring, just such a one
as it had been nearly twenty years before, when Tom Jones had tempted
John Cooper to keep away from school, and to go into the wood to take
birds' nests.

John did not forget that day; and when it came into his mind, he
could not help thinking of the changes that had taken place since.

He went to church, and you may be sure that he and the old man and woman
gave thanks to God with all their hearts, for the mercy he had
shewn to them.

[Illustration: CHARITY]

CHARITY.

* * * * *

Mary Jones was a poor woman whose husband had gone to sea on a long
voyage. She lived in a house by the road side, and got her living by
washing. She had two little boys, who were her great comfort, and
whom she used to call Ned and Tom.

For some time after her husband had left, she got on very well, and
was able to send the boys to school: but she caught a fever and was
forced to keep her bed.

Her neighbour, Sarah Smith, was very kind to her, and used to come to
the house every morning and evening to do what she could to help
her. But she was a poor woman, and could not afford to give Mary
Jones anything that cost money; so poor Mary was forced to part
with a great many things that she might get food.

Ned and Tom at this time took turns to go to school. Tom used to go
to school one day, while Ned waited on his mother; and the next
day Ned went to school and Tom staid at home. One morning when Ned was
going to school, the thought of his poor mother pressed hard on his
heart; and after he had gone a little way, he burst out crying.

He had not gone far along the narrow lane towards the school, when two
young ladies met him and asked him why he was crying. He told them
that he was thinking of his poor sick mother. The ladies then
asked him his name and where he lived, and said they would go and
call upon his mother.

He thanked them and dried up his tears, and went on to school with
a much lighter heart.

Soon after he reached home in the evening, the two kind ladies came
to his mother's house with a foot-boy, who brought a basket filled with
bread and meat, and some things fit for the poor sick woman.

They told Mary Jones how they had met Ned in the lane, and what he had
told them; and she thanked them for what they had brought, and said
that she hoped God would bless them for their goodness to her. They
then asked about Ned and Tom, and said they would get their father
to do what he could for them.

The young ladies then went home, told their father and mother what
they had seen and heard, and thanked God that they had been able to
make a poor woman and her two sons happy.

HOSPITALITY.

* * * * *
There was a poor woman named Rachel Jenkins, who lived in a very little
cottage at some distance from any other house. She was a widow, and
very poor, but she was very clean and careful; so that her cottage
had always a look of neatness and comfort. She used to spend most
of her time in spinning.

She had one son, whose name was Harry. He was twelve years old, and
used to carry a basket filled with tapes and thread, pins and
needles, and other things of that sort, which he sold to people
who lived near.

He used to go out in the morning and return in the evening; and you may
be sure his mother was always glad when the time came for him to come
home.

One evening, as he was on his way home, about half a mile from his
mother's house, he saw an old man sitting by the way-side, who was
very tired, and seemed as if he was not able to walk any further.

His hair was quite white, and his face and hands were thin and
wrinkled.

Harry said to him in a kind voice, "You seem tired, father; have
you got much further to walk."

The old man told him that he had to go to the next town, which was
twelve miles further; but that he was so tired, he was sure that
he should not be able to get there that night.

On this, Harry said, "I wish you would go home with me; for I am sure
my mother would be very glad that you should sleep in our
house." The old man thanked him and said he would go with him. So he
rested his hand upon Harry's shoulder, and walked slowly towards the
house. Harry's mother met them at the door; and when Harry had told her
how he had met with the old man, she said she was glad to see
him, and asked him to walk in to take some tea.

After tea, the old man told Sarah Jenkins that he was going to see
his son, who was laid up in a hospital in the town to which he was
going.
His son was a soldier, and had been in the West Indies for some years;
but he caught the yellow fever, and was sent home sick.

The next morning the old man went on his way, and blessed Sarah Jenkins
and Harry, because they had done good to him who could make no other
return than to thank them and pray for them.

[Illustration: HOSPITALITY]

SUNDAY EVENING.

* * * * *
When I was a girl, Sunday evening used to be the part of the week that
I loved best; and I liked it better in Winter than in Summer. We used
to sit round a blazing fire; my mother used then to teach my little
brother Tom to say his prayers, and my father used to teach
me to read in Pilgrim's Progress, or some such book; while my
brother John sat near reading some book or other that was fit for a
Sunday, with his dog Hector lying at his feet.

My dear old grand-father was then alive, and he would sit at the
table with the large old family Bible before him for the whole
evening.

As I look back upon the pleasant picture in my mind, my eye fills with
tears. I cannot help thinking of what has become of the faces that
were then so full of smiles and gladness. My grand-father went
to the grave first, but he died in a good old age; and though we
mourned to lose him whom we had all loved so much, we could not help
feeling that it was a happy change for him, as he could hardly see or
hear.

Next to him, my poor little brother Tom fell ill of the typhus fever,
and God took him to heaven in the budding of his child-hood. Only a
year or two ago, my father gave me his dying blessing, and was
then a very old man.

My mother now survives, though very old; and my two sisters, Mary and
Elizabeth, who were then lively girls, are living, and are the mothers
of families.

My brother John, a middle-aged man, is the Captain of a ship, being
now far away on a voyage; and he has left behind him a wife and two
boys, the youngest of whom is as old as he was at the time I have
spoken of. I am almost an old woman; though on these happy evenings
that I was speaking of, I was the youngest but one.

You, my little friends, will, perhaps, some day have to look back upon
such changes as I have seen. The thought that they will come upon
you need not make you sad, but it should make you good, and cause
you to resolve to do your duty and to serve God. If you do so, when
you get as old as I am, you will find that if age brings its cares
and sorrows, it also brings surer and even brighter hopes of a
life beyond the grave.

[Illustration: SUNDAY EVENING]

CONTENTMENT.

* * * * *
John Davis and his wife were very poor people, but as they worked
very hard, they could just get a living for themselves.

John worked for a farmer in the parish, and his wife took in
needle-work.

They did pretty well, when John had work; but for nearly two years
John's master could not employ him always, and he was brought almost
to distress.

But his wife always used to keep up his spirits by saying, "Be content,
and thank God if you can but live; brighter hours will come."
Sometimes John was quite spirit-broken, and said he should leave home
and try to get work somewhere else.

He was forced to sell some of his goods to buy food, and did not know
which way to turn. But his wife never failed to wear a cheerful
face, and used to be always saying to him, "Do your best, and be
content to take what God appoints."

John loved his wife very much; but he was sometimes half vexed because
she was never sad like he was. He would tell her that it was a very
good thing to be cheerful and happy when they could get a good
living. She then used to say to him, that there was no virtue in being
content when all was going on well; and that the proper time to try
to be cheerful was, when things were going amiss.

At last, better times came.

John got into work on the estate of a rich man who lived near; and as
he was a very honest man and knew his work, his master soon put
him in a place of trust, raised his wages, and gave him a good house
to live in.

John had by this time got five children, and he could no longer
deny that he had reason enough to be a happy man. You may see him and
his wife and children in the picture, enjoying a fine Summer's
evening in front of their house.
I knew John when I was young, and he was always ready to say how
much was due to his good wife. He told me that he owed all his good
fortune to her cheerful spirits and good advice to him; and added,
that now he was well off he found the truth of what she had told
him, that the proper time to try to be cheerful was, when things
were going amiss. I have never forgot that lesson, and I hope I
never shall; and I beg my young friends to keep in mind that
'Contentment is a constant feast.'
[Illustration: CONTENTMENT] 

INDUSTRY.

* * * * *
"There is work enough in the world for every one to do something.
There is no proper place for idle people." This is what old Michael
the basket maker used to say to his children; and as they grew up,
they found reason enough to thank him for the lesson.
Michael had been a sailor in his youth, but when he married, he
settled in a country place, and took up the trade of a basket maker.
At first, he could hardly get money enough to buy rods: but by
working very hard, he soon got money and credit too.Come finish this thing up yourself, I can't wait." Recovering
his equanimity he added: "Time flies and the King waits."

James, who in his time had valeted princes, after he had finished
shaving him and had turned him out as only a well-trained English
valet can, glanced with satisfaction at his work. "I think, sir, when
His Majesty sees you, sir, he will ask, sir, who is your tailor,
sir. A buttonhole, sir?"

And so with a light step and buoyant spirit the American went down,
when word came up that Colonel Stewart had called for him.

"Mr. Edestone," said the Colonel, "I am glad to tell you that your
apparatus has arrived safely and has been installed in the Green
Drawing Room. The King is deeply interested, and judging from a
mysterious pair of curtains in the gallery I think that other members
of the Royal Family intend to see this wonderful American with his
wonderful invention. As to your friends, the German spies, I made due
report of the matter and shall probably have something to tell you
later."

It was a beautiful spring day and as Edestone was driven through
Berkeley Square, up Piccadilly, and down Grosvenor Place he saw London
at its best. Then, as he crossed the park with its beautiful old trees
and lake and flower-beds, approaching Buckingham Palace from an
entirely different angle than he had ever seen it before, he realized
for the first time that it was in the midst of a beautiful sylvan
setting. The Buckingham Palace that he knew had always suggested to
him one of the Department Buildings in Washington in their efforts to
look as much like a royal palace as possible.

When he stopped under a porte-cochère simple little entrance, he felt
that he might be making a call at some rich American's country home
rather than on the King of England in the middle of London. There were
no soldiers and no extraordinary number of servants. He had seen as
many and more at some of the houses at Newport. He was shown into a
long, low, and rather dark room on the ground floor, where a lot of
young officers were lounging about. Colonel Stewart introduced him to
several of them and a smarter lot of young fellows Edestone had seldom
seen.

He had not been waiting more than fifteen or twenty minutes when he
heard Colonel Stewart's name called. His pulse quickened for he knew
that this was a signal for him. Colonel Stewart, bowing to the other
officers, said to him: "Will you please come with me, Mr. Edestone?"

Passing out of the room and up a short flight of stairs they came to a
broad corridor about twenty feet wide which ran around three sides of
a court, opening out upon the gardens to the west. They were conducted
around two sides of the square and taken into a large reception room
in the opposite corner where there were perhaps a dozen officers of
high rank, ministers and statesmen, standing about in groups. They
spoke in voices scarcely above a whisper and when the door on the
left, which evidently led into a still larger room, was opened there
was absolute silence.

Colonel Stewart, who up to this time had been quite affable, now
seemed suddenly to be caught by the solemnity of the place, and stood
like a man at the funeral of his friend.

In one of the groups, Edestone saw Colonel Wyatt, who gave him a
little nod of recognition. In a few minutes the door to the larger
room opened and Lord Rockstone coming out walked straight up to where
he and Colonel Stewart stood.

"His Majesty wishes to waive all form and ceremony, and has ordered me
to present you to him at once," he said. But when he saw the cool and
matter-of-fact way in which Edestone received this extraordinary
announcement his expression said as plainly as words: "These Americans
are certainly a remarkable people." He merely bowed to Colonel
Stewart, however, and continued: "Will you please come with me," and
leading the way to the door, spoke to an attendant who went inside. In
about five minutes the man returned, and announced to Lord Rockstone:
"His Majesty will receive you."


CHAPTER X

HE MEETS THE KING


The room into which they were shown was large and well-proportioned,
but was furnished and decorated in the style of the middle of the
nineteenth century--that atrocious period often referred to as the
Early Victorian, a term which always calls forth a smile at any
assembly of true lovers of art and carries with it the idea of all
that is heavy and vulgarly inartistic. But on the whole the room had
an air of comfort, flooded as it was with warm sunlight that streamed
through the four great windows on the right and those on each side of
the fireplace at the opposite end.

Around the large table, sat a gathering of the most distinguished men
of the Empire drawn from the Privy Council. They had evidently
finished the work of the day, as was shown by the absence of all
papers on the table and the precise manner in which the different
cabinet ministers had their portfolios neatly closed in front of them.
One would say that they had settled down to be amused or bored as the
case might be. They looked like a company of well-bred people whose
host has just announced that "Professor Bug" will relate some of his
experiences among the poisonous orchids of South America, or like a
lot of polite though perfectly deaf persons waiting for the music to
begin. Some were talking quietly, while others sat perfectly still.
The servants were removing writing materials, maps, etc., and a cloud
of clerks and undersecretaries were being swallowed up by a door in a
corner of the room.

At the end of the table opposite the door through which Edestone had
entered, sat the King. He looked very small as he sat perfectly still,
his hands resting listlessly on the arms of his great carved chair of
black walnut picked out with gold. His face with its reddish beard,
now growing grey, bore an expression of deep sadness, almost of
melancholia. His expression became more animated, however, when
Edestone entered, and he sat up and looked straight at the American as
he stood at the other end of the table.

"Your Majesty," Lord Rockstone bowed, "I beg to be allowed to present
to you Mr. John Fulton Edestone of New York of the United States of
America."

The King rose and, as his great chair was drawn back, walked to the
nearest window and stood while Rockstone brought Edestone up to him.
Extending his hand he said:

"Mr. Edestone, Mr. Underhill tells me that you are from New York. It
has been a source of great regret to me that I have never been able to
visit your wonderful country. I recall very distinctly, though, a stay
of several weeks that I made in Bermuda, and of the many charming
Americans whom I met there at that time. I was, then, the Duke of
York," he sighed.

His manner was cordial and he seemed to wish to put Edestone at ease,
assuming with him an air rather less formal than he would have shown
toward one of his own subjects of the middle class--the one great
class to which the nobility, gentry, and servants of England assign
all Americans, although the first two often try hard to conceal this
while the last seem to fear that the Americans may forget it.

"I am rather surprised to find you so young a man after hearing of
your wonderful achievements in science," the King went on, adding with
rather a sad smile: "It seems a pity to take you from some charming
English girl with whom you might be having tea this beautiful spring
afternoon and bring you to this old barracks to discuss instruments of
death and destruction." And his face seemed very old.

After a pause he turned to Rockstone and directing him to introduce
Edestone he went back to his seat and with a slight gesture ordered
the rest to resume their places. He fixed his eyes on Edestone, who
had been taken back to the other end of the table where he stood
perfectly still. Not once had the American spoken since coming into
the room. He had acknowledged the King's great kindness with a bow
which showed plainer than words in what deep respect he held the head
of the great English-speaking race. This seemed to have made a good
impression on some of the older men, who up to this time had not
deigned to look in his direction. One of the younger men murmured in
an undertone: "Young-looking chap to have kicked up such a rumpus,
isn't he? He has deuced good manners for an American."

Meanwhile Lord Rockstone, bowing to the King and then to the rest of
the company, was proceeding with the introduction, briefly explaining
that Mr. Edestone had requested to be allowed to appear before His
Majesty and explain certain inventions which he claimed to have made.

The King, however, seeming determined to make it as easy as possible
for the American, chose to supplement this formality.

"Mr. Edestone," he said with a smile, "since this meeting is to be, as
you say in America, 'just a gentlemen's meeting,' you may sit down
while you tell us about your wonderful discovery."

Edestone acknowledged the courtesy with a slight bow but declined.
"Your Majesty, with your kind permission, I should prefer to stand,"
and, then, without the slightest sign of embarrassment, he continued:

"I thank Your Majesty for your kindness. I will as briefly as I can
explain that to which you have so graciously referred as my wonderful
discovery, but before doing this, I beg to be allowed to set forth to
you my position relative to Your Majesty and Your Majesty's subjects.
Should I in my enthusiasm at any time violate any of the established
rules of court etiquette, please always remember that it is due to my
ignorance and not to any lack of deep and sincere respect or that
affection which I and all true Anglo-Saxons have for your person as
representing the head of that great people and the King of 'Old
England.'"

A thrill went through the room. The King was evidently affected. One
old gentleman, who up to this time had taken absolutely no notice of
Edestone, turned quickly and looking sharply at him through his large
eyeglasses, said: "Hear! Hear!"

The speaker acknowledged this and then proceeded. "I am an American
and I am proud of it. Not because of the great power and wealth of my
country, nor of its hundred and odd millions of people made up of the
nations of the earth, the sweepings of Europe, the overflow of Asia,
and the bag of the slave-hunter of Africa, which centuries will
amalgamate into a _cafe au lait_ conglomerate, but because I am
proud of that small group of Anglo-Saxons who, under the influence of
the free air of our great country, have developed such strength that
they have up to this time put the stamp of England upon all who have
come in contact with them. And while it is not my intention to sell my
invention to England, I will give you my word that it shall never be
used except for the benefit of the English-speaking people."

He then raised his right hand as he added very slowly and distinctly:
"In your presence and that of Almighty God, I dedicate my life to my
people, the Anglo-Saxons!"

This was received with a general murmur of applause, although there
were a few dark-skinned gentlemen with curly beards and large noses
who seemed uncomfortable. Edestone had caught that group of
unemotional men and against their will had swept them along with him,
and it was only with an effort that some of the younger men could
refrain from giving him three cheers.

Underhill, who was smiling and gesticulating at Rockstone and Graves,
applauded violently, while the King made no effort to hide his
pleasure. There was something about this man that left in no one's
mind any doubt of his sincerity, and on looking at him they felt that
he was not the kind of a man who would so solemnly and in the presence
of the King and all of the greatest men of England dedicate his life
to a purpose if he did not know that therein lay a real gift to
mankind. His sublime confidence was as convincing as his simplicity
was reassuring.

Seeing that the ice was broken he turned now to the serious business
of the afternoon.

"Mr. President," he commenced, "now that I have shown you how I stand
on international politics, I shall proceed----"

He was astonished to see the King put his head back and laugh, while
the rest, made bold by the royal example, joined in heartily.

The King seeing that Edestone was innocent of any mistake and was
blankly searching for an explanation of their mirth leaned forward and
not altogether lightly said:

"The King of England accepts the Presidency of the Anglo-Saxon
people!"

"I beg Your Majesty's pardon. I am sorry. I have forgotten myself so
soon: what shall I do when I get into the intricacies of mathematics,
physics, and mechanics to explain to you my invention?"

"Mr. Edestone," said the King, "we understand perfectly. Go on."

Recovering himself quickly and assuming a thoroughly businesslike air,
snapping out his facts with precision, speaking rapidly without notes
or memoranda, he said:

"The physical properties of electrons form the basis of my invention,
and it cannot be understood except by those who have studied the
electron theory of matter, according to which theory the electron or
corpuscle is the smallest particle of matter that had, up to my
discovery, been isolated. They are present in a free condition in
metallic conductors. Each electron carries an electric charge of
electrostatic units and produces a magnetic field in a plane
perpendicular to the direction of its motion. This brings us to the
atom, which may be described as a number of electrons positive and
negative in stable equilibrium, this condition being brought about by
the mutual repulsion of the like and attraction for the opposite
electrification so arranged as to nullify each other. Having thus
established the law of the equilibrium of electrons, corpuscles,
atoms, and molecules, I found that the same law applies to the
equilibrium of our solar system, and, in fact, of the universe, and,
by the elimination of either the positive or the negative electron,
this equilibrium is altered or destroyed.

"I then sought to nullify the attraction of gravity by changing the
electrical condition of the electrons of an object, which until that
time was attracted by the earth, as is shown by the formula,
_V equals the square root of (s times 2g)_ for falling bodies,
and by using the formula _Y equals the square root of mx divided by
(pi times g)_ I found----"

But at this point he was interrupted by the King, who said, with a
gesture of supplication: "Please! Please! Mr. Edestone do not go so
deeply into science, for, for my part, I regret to say that it would
be entirely lost on me. Save that for my men of science," and he waved
his hand in the direction of his rough and rugged old Sea Lord, Admiral
Sir Wm. Brown. "Just tell us what you have accomplished and then show
us some of these marvellous things that Mr. Underhill has told us you
can do. Besides, I understand that you are to show us moving pictures
of the actual working of your machine, boat, or whatever it is."

The inventor was disappointed; for he had wished to set all minds at
rest and to establish the fact that he was no trickster but a
scientist. With a deprecating smile he said: "As Your Majesty
pleases."

Then, without the slightest sign of condescension, and selecting with
the greatest care only words that the man in the street could
understand, he proceeded with his exposition.

"I have discovered that gravitation is due to the attraction that two
bodies in different electrical condition have for each other, and that
by changing the condition of one of these bodies so that they are both
in the same electrical condition this attraction no longer exists. I
have also discovered that the earth is, so to speak, as far as the
laws of gravity are concerned, in a state of what we might call for
lack of a better name, 'positive electrical condition,' and that all
objects on the earth, as long as they are not in contact with it, are
in what we may call 'negative electrical condition.' These remain in
this condition so long as they are not in actual electrical contact
with the earth and are separated from it by a non-conducting medium
such as the atmosphere, glass, hard rubber, etc., and are attracted by
it, as is shown by the formulae which I will gladly explain to your
gentlemen of science." And he turned with a bow to Admiral Sir William
Brown, who was leaning across the table frowning at him and who with
his scrubbing-brush hair, long upper lip, and heavy brows looked more
like a Rocky Mountain goat than ever.

"I have invented an instrument," continued Edestone, "which I call a
_Deionizer._ With this, so far as regards any phenomena of which
we are conscious, I am able to change the electrical condition of an
object, provided this object is insulated from electrical contact with
the earth. That is, I can change it from the so-called minus
condition, which is attracted by the earth, to the plus condition,
which being the same condition as the earth, is therefore not
attracted by it. The object in that state can be said to have no
weight, although frankly for some reason which I have not yet
discovered it does not lose its inertia against motion in any
direction relative to the earth."

He then took from his pocket the leather case which Underhill readily
recognized, and, turning to Lord Rockstone, he said with a slightly
quizzical expression:

"If your Lordship will be so kind as to stand on a glass plate or
block of hard rubber I can with this little instrument which I have in
my hand alter your electrical condition from its present minus to that
of plus. I can then place you anywhere in this room and keep you there
as long as you do not come in contact with any object that,
electrically speaking, is in contact with the earth."

This caused Lord Rockstone to give a grim but thoroughly good-natured
smile, and Edestone, feeling as if he had somewhat settled scores with
the "Hero of the Nile," continued: "As a less valuable object than one
of the most brilliant stars in Great Britain's crown will answer my
purpose just as well, may I ask that one of the servants fetch the
glass plate that was brought to the Palace this afternoon with my
apparatus."

The glass plate having been brought in by a flunkey, he repeated the
experiment with which he had so astonished Underhill at the Admiralty,
using the flunkey however in place of the cannon ball, and leaving the
poor unfortunate creature suspended in mid-air while he himself
replied to the many questions that were put to him.

Finally he touched the man's hand, and taking the shock through his
own body let him drop to the floor. The fellow remained there in an
almost fainting condition, but, recovering and finding that he had
sustained no injuries except to his dignity, which in his state of
great excitement had fallen away from him, he rushed out of the room
without asking for or receiving permission to do so. His
panic-stricken exit would at any other time have been most amusing,
but the audience just then was in no humour for levity.

Edestone next repeated the same experiment, utilizing different small
objects that were handed to him by the gentlemen about the table, and
soon had suspended above the glass plate an assortment of
pocket-knives, watches, and a glass of water, while he chatted with
those who were nearest to him, and handed to the scientific members of
the council diagrams and mathematical formulae which he hastily
scribbled on bits of paper.


CHAPTER XI

THE DEIONIZER


After the different objects had been returned to their respective
owners, the King by a slight gesture called the meeting to order, for
all had left their seats and were crowding around Edestone in what,
for Englishmen, was a state of violent excitement. Even the more
self-contained were unable to conceal the fact that they were
impressed by these experiments as well as by the quiet dignity of this
young man. They seemed to realize that he had them figuratively if not
literally in the palm of his hand. The dullest and least imaginative
saw the endless possibilities in the application of his discovery to
the arts and sciences. During all of this time the young American had
kept himself under perfect control and had answered all questions in
the most deferential and respectful manner; and now, having received
from the King permission to continue, he went on:

"The secret of my discovery lies in this little instrument, the
construction of which is known only to myself. The application of this
newly-discovered principle can be best understood by viewing my moving
pictures, which show it in actual operation. Now, with your most kind
permission I should like to inspect my apparatus to see that
everything is all right."

And then, as if some sudden impulse which pleased him had flashed
across his mind, like the big healthy-minded boy that he was, and with
an irresistible smile on his face, he dropped into a more familiar
tone than he had allowed himself up to this time.

"And to show you what I think of Englishmen," he said, "I will leave
this Deionizer in your keeping until I return. A gentle tap or two on
that hard-rubber shell and you will know its secret." He laid the
instrument with its little case beside it on the table in front of the
King and left the room escorted by a member of the Royal Family, young
Prince George of Windthorst, who insisted upon acting as his guide to
the Green Drawing Room.

As the door closed upon them, the King rose, saying as he did so,
"Please remain seated." He walked into one of the windows and stood
for some minutes looking out over the park. Whatever it was that was
passing through his mind, it was not a pleasant thought, as was shown
by his hands, which were clasped behind his back so tightly that the
fingers were perfectly white; and the veins of his neck swelled, while
the muscles of his jaws were firmly set. No one dared to move. The
silence in the room was so intense that the men about the table, as if
caught by a spell, sat with unfinished gestures, like the figures in a
moving picture when the film catches. The clock on the mantel seemed
suddenly to have waked up and to be trying by its loud ticking to fool
itself into thinking that it had been ticking all the time. When the
time came for it to strike five o'clock, it went at it with such
resounding vim that Admiral Sir William Brown, who had served his
apprenticeship in the turrets, seemed to think that he had better open
his mouth to save his ear-drums.

"War is war! All is fair! War is war! All is fair!" it seemed to say.

The King finally turned, and walking back to the table picked up the
innocent-looking instrument. He turned it over and over in his hand
and then slowly and carefully wound the platinum wires about it as a
boy winds a top and placed it back into its leather case. As he put it
down on the table, he said, almost as if to himself:

"We have come today to one of the turning points in the history of the
world. This is a remarkable man."

After a moment, he turned to Underhill: "I think you have done your
country a great service today in averting what might have been an
appalling catastrophe. Do you not agree with me, Sir Egbert?" he
glanced toward the Minister of Foreign Affairs.

"I do, Sire," the minister acquiesced thoughtfully. "If this man
represents the United States of America, it will not be long before
she will insist that this war be brought to an end upon her own terms,
and it would have been almost suicidal on our part to antagonize him.
She doubtless controls this instrument whose practical application
will probably be shown us by his pictures."

"But what this man has just said to you, Sire," suggested Underhill,
"does not seem to bear out the idea that he is acting under
instructions from the present State Department at Washington."

"If it please Your Majesty," interposed one of the statesmen of the
old school, "should we not make some formal representation to the
United States of America before this man be allowed to go to Berlin?"

"I should not approve of that," dissented the King. "In the first
place, as far as we know, Mr. Edestone may have already communicated
with Berlin, Paris, and Petrograd. I do not think he would put himself
so completely in our power if he thought he was risking the
destruction of his entire scheme."

"I believe, Your Majesty," said another sneeringly, "that this
melodramatic exit is just another Yankee bluff. You will probably find
in looking into it that the fellow has palmed the real instrument and
has forced this one on us by clever sleight of hand."

"I disagree with you entirely," said the King, frowning and bringing
his hand down on the table as if to put an end to the discussion. "I
believe this man to be a gentleman and a thoroughly good sportsman."


CHAPTER XII

FIRST SHOW OF FORCE


On entering the room, when he returned, Edestone, although he was
aware that the King had been notified and the attendants been given
orders to admit him, did not advance, but took his stand near the
door, looking neither to the right nor to the left. He permitted the
young Prince, his escort, who had discovered that they had many
friends in common, and whose sister it was that had been his
fellow-passenger on the _Ivernia_, to inform His Majesty that
everything was in readiness for the exhibition of the moving pictures.

The King immediately beckoned the inventor forward and, picking up the
little instrument from the table, thrust it into Edestone's hands,
almost with an air of relief.

"We appreciate the compliment you have paid us in believing that we
still play fair." There was in both his tone and action a touch of the
bluff heartiness of the naval officer, which was natural to him, and
showed that he had thrown off all restraint. "But do not, I beg of
you, do this again, even in England. These are desperate times; and
nations, like men, when fighting for their very existence, are quite
apt to forget their finer scruples.

"My cousin in Berlin, I am convinced," and there was perhaps a hint of
warning in his smile, "would give the souls of half his people to know
what that little box contains; and, in his realm, it is the religion
of some of his benighted subjects to give him what he wants."

Bowing slightly, Edestone took the little case, and, without even
looking at it, slipped it carelessly into the inside pocket of his
coat.

"I knew that Your Majesty would understand me," he said in a tone
intended for the Royal ear alone, and with more emotion than he had
yet displayed. As he spoke, too, he lifted his hand in obedience to an
involuntary and apparently irresistible impulse.

The King met him more than half-way. Reaching out, he grasped the
extended hand in his own, and standing thus the two men looked
straight into each other's eyes.

The suppressed excitement which the scene created was so intense that
some of the spectators seemed to be suffering actual pain; and when,
after a fraction of a moment which seemed an age, the King released
the American's hand and spoke, there was an audible sigh of relief
that pervaded the entire room.

"We will now look at the pictures," said His Majesty simply, and,
leading the way, he set out in the direction of the Green Drawing
Room.

Edestone fell back and bowed respectfully in acknowledgment of the
pleasant glances which were thrown in his direction, as the Lords,
Generals, Admirals, and Ministers of State took their places in line,
clinging with an almost frantic tenacity, in response to the teachings
of the Catechism of the English Church, to their position "in that
state of life unto which it had pleased God to call" them.

Thoroughly amused at the situation which compelled him to bring up the
rear of the procession like the piano-tuner or the gas-man, Edestone
marched along at the side of an attendant in livery, who evidently
looked upon him as a clever vaudeville artist that had been brought in
to entertain the company. He told the visitor, with a broad grin, that
he had frightened the other flunkey almost out of his wits with his
magic tricks. Edestone, his sense of humour aroused, thereupon gravely
offered to give a show in the servants' hall at two shillings a head,
half the receipts to be donated to the Red Cross, provided he was
given a guarantee of ten pounds; and when the fellow promised to
consider the proposal, pretended carefully to take down his name.

The King, who, in the meantime, seemed to be in a sort of brown-study,
passed down the corridor with the long file of dignitaries following
him in order of precedence. But when His Majesty reached the Green
Drawing Room and, looking around, saw nothing of the American, he gave
a slight frown of annoyance. Immediately he directed that Edestone be
brought up and placed in a chair near himself, while the attendants
drew the curtains and extinguished the lights.

After the room had been made perfectly dark, and the buzzing of the
cinematograph in its temporary cabinet indicated that everything was
in readiness, Edestone's operator, in response to a word from his
employer, threw upon the screen two or three portraits of the King and
various members of the Royal Family. This was not only by way of
compliment, but also to give assurance that the machine was in proper
working order. Edestone proposed to run no chances of a bungling or
incomplete presentation of his pictures.

Satisfied at length, he rose and faced about toward his audience.

"Ladies and Gentlemen," he said, after addressing the King,--for from
the gallery had come sounds which showed that, as Colonel Stewart had
suggested, some of the ladies of the Court were taking an interest in
the exhibition,--"I shall not trouble you to listen to a long,
scientific discourse on the theory of my discovery, nor how I have
made practical application of it. I shall simply throw the pictures on
the screen, letting them speak for themselves; and then, with His
Majesty's kind permission, shall be glad to answer any questions that
may be put to me. The first picture I shall show you is one of my
workshop in New York."

There appeared on the screen a dark, somewhat indistinct interior,
which seemed to have been photographed from high up and looking down
through a long, shed-like building lighted from the roof. The immense
height of this roof was not at first apparent until it was compared
with the pigmy-like figures of the workmen who were busily engaged
about a great, black, cigar-shaped object, which had the general
appearance of a Zeppelin. In the dim light, there was nothing about
its aspect to distinguish it from the latest models of the German
air-ship, save that it seemed to be of heavier construction, as shown
by the great difficulty with which the men were moving it toward the
farther end of the shed, which was entirely open.

"I would especially call your attention to the track upon which moves
the cradle that carries the large black object in the centre of the
picture," said Edestone. "The tires are made of hard rubber, and the
rails which are of steel rest on glass plates attached to each of the
tires. Thus, any object placed in the cradle becomes absolutely
insulated, and has no electrical connection with the earth, which, as
I have explained, are the requisite conditions to permit of
'Deionizing' by the use of an instrument similar to the one I have in
my pocket. Of course, though in actual operation we use a much larger
'Deionizer' than the little model I have shown you, and run it with a
hundred horse-power motor, instead of with a small spring and
watchworks. This track and cradle at which you are looking, although
they weigh many tons, can be easily taken apart and transported in
sections, as I stand ready to demonstrate."

The film ended as he finished, and for a moment the screen was blank;
then with a little splutter from the cabinet, another picture
appeared.

This was of a great open space, the most desolate and lonely stretch
of country that could well be imagined, a broad, open plain that
stretched on for miles and miles, perfectly flat, treeless and
uninhabited. The wind apparently was blowing violently, judging from
the way it tossed Edestone's hair about as, hatless, he walked back
and forth in the near foreground, shading his eyes from the sun with
his hand while he looked into the lens and called his directions to
the man who was working the camera.

"That disreputable-looking individual is myself," he confessed. "My
hat had blown away, a circumstance quite inconvenient at the time, but
not without a certain element of present interest, as showing that a
high wind was blowing at that time."

Behind him in the middle distance was a track and cradle similar to
the one shown in the first picture. The machine in the cabinet buzzed,
and clicked, and made a noise like that of a small boy rattling a
stick along a picket fence. A draught from some open window blowing
against the linen screen caused the flat, deserted plain to undulate
like the waves of the sea. The horizon bobbed up and down, showing
first a great expanse of sky, and then the foreground ran up to
infinity. The cradle was seen first at the right, and then at the left
of the picture. The clouds in the sky kept jumping about, as if the
operator was trying to follow some object aloft, but was unable to get
it into the field of his camera.

The audience began to grow impatient. Had the apparatus got out of
order, they wondered, and were they to be cheated of the promised
sensation? But just then the screen steadied, and there appeared in
the upper left-hand corner of the picture a faint, far-away dot which
gradually assumed the form of a dirigible. Across the desolate
landscape it sailed, growing more and more distinct as it drew nearer.
It circled, turning first to the right and then to the left, rising
and descending, as if responding willingly to the touch of its unseen
pilot, until with a majestic swoop it hovered like a great bird
exactly over the cradle, and came to a standstill.

To those among the spectators who had witnessed the evolutions of the
great battleships of the air over Lake Constance, there was nothing
notable about either the vessel or its performance, except that it
seemed larger, more solid, and had four great smoke stacks. In the
gale which was blowing, the volumes of inky smoke which poured from
the four great funnels were tossed about and flung away like long,
streaming ribbons; yet the ship itself was as steady as a great ocean
liner on a summer sea.

On closer inspection, too, it was seen that on the upper side of the
craft there was a platform or deck running its full length, where men
were working away like sailors on a man-of-war, and from portholes and
turrets protruded great black things which looked like the muzzles of
guns.

All at once, as if acting under an order from within, these were
trained on the spectators and simultaneously discharged, belching out
great rings of smoke. There was a stifled scream from the gallery at
this, but immediately the room grew quiet again, and the audience sat
as if spellbound awaiting further developments. A small door in the
starboard side now opened, and the figure of a man came running down a
gangway to a platform suspended under the ship, where, silhouetted
against the sky, he occupied himself in signalling to some one on the
ground. He was joined from time to time by others of the crew as the
vessel settled slowly toward the earth.

When it was about one hundred and fifty feet above the cradle,
Edestone was seen to walk out with a megaphone in his hand, and
through it communicate instructions to the man on the bridge, in
evident obedience to which the airship settled still lower, until it
was not more than twenty feet above the top of the cradle.

A ladder having then been lowered to Edestone, he climbed up it,
ascended the gangway, and disappeared into the interior of the great
cigar-shaped object, it all the time remaining absolutely stationary.
But he was not long lost to view. In a few minutes he re-appeared on
the top deck and a man by his side energetically waved a large flag.

And as the two stood there, the airship began to move.

Slowly at first, but gradually gaining momentum, it soared away across
the wastes, and soon was lost to sight.

There was a moment after that when the room was dark, while horizontal
streaks of light chased each other from bottom to top across the
screen, and disappeared into the darkness from which they had come.

Another picture followed, taken from the same viewpoint as the last.

"Here she comes!" cried Edestone, seeming to forget for the moment
where he was, as a small speck which represented the approaching
airship disclosed itself. "This time in the upper right-hand corner of
the picture. See! I am on board, and I am driving her at one hundred
and ten miles." And he followed with his pointer the swift course of
the vessel, as it shot down the screen like a great comet, leaving a
long tail of smoke behind it. To the overwrought nerves of the
audience, the buzz and splutter of the moving-picture machine seemed
to increase in volume, and thus lend a semblance of reality to the
monster as it swept nearer and nearer.

Straight for the camera it was headed, grim, threatening,
irresistible, as if it were preparing to rush out of the screen and
destroy Buckingham Palace. The spectators with difficulty kept their
seats, and when the formidable thing dashed by and disappeared at the
side of the picture, they settled back in their chairs with an
unmistakable sigh of relief.

It appeared again, after making a great circle, returning slowly now,
and dropping lightly as a feather to the cradle, where it remained
perfectly still, while the black smoke enveloped it in a veil of
mystery.

The machine in the cabinet stopped, and some one was heard to say in a
loud whisper, "Lights!" Admiral Brown was the first of the assembly to
recover. He sprang to his feet and like a wounded old lion at bay
stood glaring at Edestone. His rugged weather-beaten face convulsed
with suppressed rage, which but for the presence of the King would
have exploded upon Edestone after the manner of the old-fashioned
sea-dog that he was, but holding himself in check he said loudly and
challengingly:

"If there is no objection I will ask the young man to repeat the last
picture, and I would also like to inquire with what material the
framework of this ship is covered, and what is the calibre of those
large guns--if they are guns?"

"Will you please be so kind as to answer the Admiral's questions, Mr.
Edestone?" said the King.

"The material which I used through her entire length of 907 feet, both
top and bottom, is Harveyized steel, six feet thick; and the largest
gun is sixteen inches," replied Edestone slowly, enjoying the look of
blank amazement which spread over the Admiral's face as he dropped
back into his chair gasping and mopping his brow.

"This is the end of everything. I wish I had never lived to see the
day!" The old sailor sat like a man who had seen a vision so appalling
that it robbed him of his reason.


CHAPTER XIII

"THE KING IS DEAD; LONG LIVE THE KING!"


The King, of all the company, seemed to be the only one who had
remained perfectly cool. He was like a man who realizing the gravity
of the situation yet had nerved himself to meet it.

"Mr. Edestone," he said, as if speaking to one of his own naval
officers, "you will please show the last two pictures again, and for
the benefit of Admiral Brown you might give us some further details in
regard to the ship's equipment and armament. May I also ask you where
these pictures were taken?"

"On the flat plains in the centre of the island of Newfoundland,"
Edestone informed him, "between the White Bear River and the east
branch of the Salmon, and from fifty to seventy-five miles from the
seacoast on the south. If Your Majesty will look into the middle
distance when the second picture is again thrown on the screen you
will see some small, dark objects; these are one of those immense
herds of caribou, which happen to be moving south over this vast
barren at the time of year that these pictures were taken--that is, in
October."

He observed that the face of the King took on an expression blended
partly of astonishment and partly of resentment when he mentioned the
name of one of the Colonial possessions of the Empire, and hastened to
add:

"You will find, Sire, if you inquire of the Governor of that Province
that I was there with the full knowledge and consent of Your Majesty's
Government to carry on certain scientific experiments. I selected this
deserted spot, so far removed from all human habitation, because there
I should not be disturbed. Until I showed these pictures here today no
one outside of my own men knew the nature of these experiments. The
guns were loaded with nothing more harmful than several hundred pounds
of black powder to produce the display of force which you have just
seen. I will admit," he granted with a smile, "that if the newspapers
had got word of what was going on there they might have made some
excitement; I can assure you, however, that no act of mine could be
construed even by our most susceptible and timid State Department as a
violation of neutrality."

"But where is your ship now?" asked the King, while the rest of the
company held their breath, awaiting the answer.

"That, Your Majesty, for reasons of state, I regret I cannot at this
time tell you, but you have my word and that of our Secretary that
wherever she may be, her mission is one of peace."

"Peace!" snorted Admiral Brown. "With a six-foot armour-belt and
sixteen-inch guns! It is a ship of war, Your Majesty. We have the
right to demand whether or not it is now on or over British soil, and
if it is, to make such representations to the United States Government
as will cause her to withdraw it at once and apologize for having
violated the dignity of Great Britain."

"And if they should refuse, Sir William," asked the King, with a weary
smile, "would you undertake to drive it off?

"No, Admiral," he continued, "up to this time we have no official
knowledge of this airship's existence. Until we have, we will take Mr.
Edestone's assurance that his own and his country's intentions to us
are friendly."

A wave of hot indignation had swept over the entire assembly, and it
was with some difficulty that the King was able to restore order.

"Please continue with your pictures, Mr. Edestone," he said in a tone
of authority.

The lights again went out, the machine in the cabinet began to turn,
and as the dramatic scene was re-enacted before them his audience sat
in perfect silence while Edestone, as though he were recounting the
simplest and most ordinary facts, gave out the following information:

"This ship has a length over all of 907 feet. Its beam is 90 feet. Its
greatest circular dimension is described with a radius of 48 feet. She
would weigh, loaded with ammunition, fuel, provisions, and crew, if
brought in contact with the earth, 40,000 tons. Her weight as she
travels, after making allowance for the air displacement is generally
kept at about 3000 tons, which automatically adjusts itself to the
density of the surrounding atmosphere, but can be reduced to nothing
at pleasure. Its full speed has never been reached. This is simply a
matter of oil consumption; I have had her up to 180 miles. Her
steaming radius is about 50,000 miles, depending upon the speed. She
carries twelve 16-inch guns, twenty-two 6-inch guns, sixteen 4-inch
anti-aircraft guns, eight 3-pounders, four rapid-fire guns, six aerial
torpedo tubes, and six bomb droppers, which can simultaneously
discharge tons of explosives. Lovell shrugged his shoulders.

"It is a cert.," he answered; "and you're right. Challoner doesn't like
us, and it amuses him to keep us out of our just rights. The monitors
know I detest 'em, and they don't think you're called the Demon for
nothing. Challoner is more of a monitor than a footer-player. How about
a rubber? There's just time."
"I don't mind."

Lovell went to the door and opened it.

"Bo-o-o-o-o-o-y!"
The familiar cry--that imperious call which makes an Harrovian feel
himself master of more or less willing slaves--echoed through the
house.

Immediately the night-fag came running; it was not considered healthy
to keep Lovell waiting.

"Ask Beaumont-Greene to come up here and----" He paused.

Warde had just turned the corner, and was approaching. Lovell hesitated.
Then he repeated what he had just said, with a slight variation
for Warde's benefit. "Tell him I want to ask him a question about
the house-subscriptions."

"Right," said the fag, bustling off.

Lovell waited to receive his house-master. He had very good manners.

"Can I do anything for you, sir?" he asked.

"Yes," said Warde, deliberately. He entered Lovell's room and looked
at Scaife, who rose at once.

"I wish to speak with you alone, Lovell."

"Certainly, sir. Won't you sit down?"
Warde waited till Scaife had closed the door; then he said quietly--

"Lovell, does Beaumont-Greene owe you money?"

FOOTNOTES:

[28] The Anglo-Saxon form of Harrow.

[29] The terminal examination.

[30] "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these
My brethren, ye have done it unto Me."

CHAPTER X
_Decapitation_
"Ferdinand Mendez Pinto was but a type of thee, thou liar of the first
magnitude!"

Lovell betrayed his astonishment by a slight start; however, he
faced Warde with a smile.

Warde, clean-shaven, alert, with youthful figure, looked but
little older than his pupil.

For a moment the two stared steadily at each other; then, very
politely, Lovell said--
"No, sir, he does not."

Warde continued curtly, "Then he has paid you what he did owe you?"
Lovell nodded, shrugging his shoulders. Plainly, Warde had discovered
the fact of the debt.

Probably that fool Beaumont-Greene had applied to his father, and the
father had written to Warde. It was unthinkable that Warde knew more
than this. Having reached this conclusion, Lovell turned over in his
mind two or three specious lies that might meet the exigency.

"Yes," he replied, with apparent frankness, "Beaumont-Greene did
owe me money, and he has paid me."
After a slight pause, Warde said quietly, "It is my duty, as your
tutor, to ask you how Beaumont-Greene became indebted to you?"
"I lent him the money," said Lovell.

"Ah! Please call 'Boy.'"
Lovell went into the passage. Had he an intuition that he was about to
call "Boy" for the last time, or did the pent-up excitement find an
outlet in sound?

He had never called "Boy" so loudly or clearly. The night-fag scurried
up again.

"Tell him to send Scaife here," said Warde.

Lovell's florid face paled. Scaife would introduce complications.
And yet, if it had come to Warde's ears that Beaumont-Greene was in
debt to two of his schoolfellows, and if he had found out the name
of one, it was not surprising that he knew the name of the other
also. As he gave the fag the message, he regretted that Scaife and
he could not have a minute's private conversation together.

"You lent Beaumont-Greene ten pounds, Lovell?"
"Yes, sir."
Scaife came in, cool, handsomer than usual because of the sparkle
in his eyes.

"Shut the door, Scaife. Look at me, please. Beaumont-Greene owed you
money?"
Scaife glanced at Lovell, whose left eyelid quivered.

"Kindly stand behind Scaife, Lovell.

Thank you. Answer my question, Scaife."
"Yes, sir; he owed me money."
"Have _you_ lent him money, too?" said Lovell.

It was admirably done--the hint cleverly conveyed, the mild amazement.

Warde smiled grimly. Scaife understood, and took his cue.

"Yes; I have lent him money," said he, after a slight
pause.

"Twenty pounds?"
"I believe, sir, that is the amount."
"And can you offer me any explanation why Beaumont-Greene, whose
father, to my knowledge, has always given him a very large
allowance, should borrow thirty pounds of you two?"
"I haven't the smallest idea, have you, Lovell?"
"No," said Lovell. "Unless his younger brother, who is at Eton, has got
into trouble. He's very fond of his brothers."
"Um! You speak up for your--friend."
Lovell frowned. "A friend, sir--no."
"Of course," said Warde, reflectively, "if it is true that
Beaumont-Greene borrowed this money to help a brother----"
He paused, staring at Lovell.

From the bottom of a big heart he was praying that Lovell would not
lie.

"Beaumont-Greene certainly gave me to understand that the affair
was pressing.

Having the money, I hadn't the heart to refuse."
"But you pressed for repayment?"

said Warde, sharply.

"That is true, sir. I'm on an allowance; and I shall have many
expenses this holidays."

"You, Scaife, asked for your money?"
"Yes, sir."
"Well, between you, you have driven this unhappy wretch into crime."

"Crime, sir?"

At last their self-possession abandoned them. Crime is a word which
looms large in the imaginations of youth. What had Beaumont-Greene
done?

"What crime, sir?"
Scaife, the more self-possessed, although fully two years the
younger, asked the question.

"Forgery."
"Forgery?" Lovell repeated. He was plainly shocked.

"The idiot!" exclaimed Scaife.

"Yes--forgery. Have you anything to say? It is a time when the truth,
all the truth, might be accepted as an extenuating circumstance. I
speak to you first, Lovell.

You're a Sixth Form boy--remember, I have been one myself--and it
is your duty to help me."
"I beg pardon, sir," Lovell replied. "I have never considered it my
duty as a Sixth Form boy to play the usher."
"Nor did I; but you ought to work on parallel lines with us. You
accepted the privileges of the Sixth."
Lovell's flush deepened.

"More," continued Warde, "you know that we, the masters, have implicit
trust in the Sixth Form, a trust but seldom betrayed. For instance, I
should not think of entering your room without tapping on the
door; under ordinary circumstances I should accept your bare word
unhesitatingly.

I say emphatically that if you, knowing these things, have accepted the
privileges of your order with the deliberate intention of ignoring
its duties, you have not acted like a man of honour."

"Sir!"
"Don't bluff! Now, for the last time, will you give me what I have given
you--trust?"
"I have nothing more to say," Lovell answered stiffly.

"And you, Scaife?"

"I am sorry, sir, that Beaumont-Greene has been such a fool. We lent him
this money, because he wanted it badly; and he said he would pay us
back before the end of the term."

"You stick to that story?"
"Why, yes, sir. Why should we tell you a lie?"
"Ah, why, indeed?" sighed Warde. Then his voice grew hard and sharp.
The persuasiveness, the carefully-framed sentences, gave place to his
curtest manner. "This matter," said he, "is out of my hands. The Head
Master will deal with it. I must ask you for your keys, Lovell."

"And if I refuse to give them up?"
"Then we must break into your boxes. Thanks." He took the keys.

"Follow me, please."
The pair followed him into the private side, upstairs, and into the
sick-room. There were three beds in it; upon one sat Beaumont-Greene.

His complexion turned a sickly drab when he saw Lovell and Scaife.

He even glanced at the window with a hunted expression. The window
was three stories from the ground, and heavily barred ever since
a boy in delirium had tried to jump from it.

"Your night-things will be brought to you," said Warde.

He went out slowly. The boys heard the key turn in the massive
lock.
They were prisoners. Scaife walked up to Beaumont-Greene.

"You told Warde about the bridge?"
"Ye-es; I had to. Scaife, don't look at me like that. Lovell"--his
voice broke into a terrified scream--"don't let him hit me. I couldn't
help it--I swear I----"
"You cur!" said Scaife. "I wouldn't touch you with a forty-foot pole."

Just what passed between Warde and the Head Master must be surmised.
Carefully hidden in Lovell's boxes were found cards and markers.
Upon the latter remained the results of the last game played, and under
the winning column a rough calculation in pounds, shillings, and
pence.
There were no names.

Next day, during first school, a notice came round to each Form to
be in the Speech-room at 8.30. Not a boy knew or guessed the reason
of this summons. The Manorites, aware that three of their House
were in the sick-room, believed that an infectious disease had
broken out.

Only Desmond, John, and the Caterpillar experienced heart-breaking
fears that a catastrophe had taken place.

When the School assembled at half-past eight, the monitors came
in, followed by the Head Master in cap and gown.

Then, a moment later, the School Custos entered with Scaife. They sat
down upon a small bench near the door. Immediately the whispers, the
shuffling of feet, the occasional cough, died down into a thrilling
silence.

The Head Master stood up.

He was a man of singularly impressive face and figure. And his voice
had what may be described as an edge to it--the cutting quality so
invaluable to any speaker who desires to make a deep impression
upon his audience.

He began his address in the clear, cold accents of one who sets
forth facts which can neither be controverted nor ignored. Slowly,
inexorably, without wasting a word or a second, he told the School what
had happened. Then he paused.

As his voice melted away, the boys moved restlessly. Upon their faces
shone a curious excitement and relief. Gambling in its many-headed
forms is too deeply rooted in human hearts to awaken any great antipathy.
So far, then, the sympathy of the audience lay with the culprits;
this the Head Master knew.

When he spoke again, his voice had changed, subtly, but unmistakably.

"You were afraid," he said, "that I had something worse--ah, yes,
unspeakably worse--to tell you. Thank God, this is not one of those
cases from which every clean, manly boy must recoil in disgust.
But, on that account, don't blind yourselves to the issues involved.
This playing of bridge--a game you have seen your own people playing
night after night, perhaps--is harmless enough in itself. I can say
more--it is a game, and hence its fascination, which calls into use
some of the finest qualities of the brain: judgment, memory, the
faculty of making correct deductions, foresight, and patience. It
teaches restraint; it makes for pleasant fellowship. It does all
this and more, provided that it never degenerates into gambling.
The very moment that the game becomes a gamble, if any one of the
players is likely to lose a sum greater than he can reasonably afford
to pay, greater than he would cheerfully spend upon any other
form of entertainment, then bridge becomes cursed. And because you
boys have not the experience to determine the difference between a
mere game and a gamble, card-playing is forbidden you, and rightly
so. Now, let us consider what has happened. A stupid, foolish
fellow, playing with boys infinitely cleverer than himself, has
lost a sum of money which he could not pay.

To obtain the means of paying it, he deliberately forged a letter
and a signature.

And then followed the inevitable lying--lie upon lie. That is always
the price of lies--'to lie on still.'
"I would mitigate the punishment, if I could, but I must think of
the majority.

This sort of malignant disease must be cut out. Two of the three
offenders are young men; they were leaving at the end of this term.

They will leave, instead--to-day.

The third boy is much younger.
Because of his youth, I have been persuaded by his house-master to
give him a further chance."

Again he paused. Then he exclaimed loudly, "Scaife!"
Scaife stood up, very pale. "Here, sir!"
"Scaife, you will go into the Fourth Form Room,[31] and prepare to receive
the punishment which no member of the Eleven should ever deserve."

* * * * *

John sat with his Form while the Head Master was addressing the
School.
Not far off was the Caterpillar, less cool than usual, so John
remarked.

His collar, for instance, seemed to be too tight; and he moved
restlessly upon his chair.

Many very brave men become nervous when a great danger has passed
them by. Egerton said afterwards, "I felt like getting down a hole,
and pulling the hole after me. Not my own. Some Yankee's, you
know."

Still, he displayed remarkable self-possession under trying circumstances.
Two of Lovell's particular friends were seen to turn the colour of
Cheddar cheese.

But Desmond, so John noticed, grew red rather than yellow. Nor did he
tremble, but his fists were clenched, and his eyes kindled.

As Scaife left the Speech-room, followed by Titchener (the provider
of birches, whose duty it is to see that boys about to be swished
are properly prepared to receive punishment), the boys began to
shuffle in their places.

But the Head Master held up his hand. It was then that Lovell's two
particular friends, who had partially recovered, felt that the
earth was once more slipping from under them.

"It takes four to play bridge." The Caterpillar's fingers went to his
collar again. "In this case there must have been a fourth, possibly a
fifth and a sixth. Not more, I think, because the secret was too
well kept.

We are confronted with the disagreeable fact that three boys are going
to receive the most severe punishments I can inflict, and that another
escapes scot-free. _For I do not know the--name--of--the--fourth._"

The Head Master waited to let each deliberate word soak in.

Perhaps he had calculated the effect of his voice upon a boy of
sensibility and imagination.

That Scaife, his friend, should suffer the indignity of a swishing, and
that he should escape scot-free, seemed to Cæsar Desmond not a bit
of rare good fortune--as it appeared to the others--but an incredible
miscarriage of justice.

To submit tamely to such a burden was unthinkable. He sprang to his
feet, ardent, impetuous, afire with the spirit which makes men
accept death rather than dishonour; and then, in a voice that rang
through the room, thrilling the coldest and most callous heart, he
exclaimed-- 
"I was the fourth."

A curious sound escaped from the audience--a gasp of surprise,
of admiration, and of dismay; at least, so the Head Master interpreted
it.
And looking at the faces about him, he read approval or disapproval,
according as each boy betrayed the feeling in his heart.

"You, Desmond?"
"Yes, sir."
The Caterpillar rose slowly. He was cool enough now.

"I was the fifth."
But Lovell's two particular friends sat tight, as they put it. Let us
not blame them.

"You, Egerton?"
"Yes, sir."

For a moment the Head Master hesitated.

Into his mind there flashed the image of two notable figures--the
fathers whom he had entreated to send sons to the Manor.

If--if by so doing he had compassed the boys' ruin, could he ever have
forgiven himself? But now, the boys themselves had justified his
action; they had proved worthy of their breeding and the traditions of
the Hill.

"Come here," he said.

When they stood opposite to him, he continued--
"You give yourselves up to receive the punishment I am about to
inflict upon Scaife?"

The boys did not answer, save with their eyes. The silence in
the great room was so profound that John made sure that the beating of
his heart must be heard by everybody.

"I shall not punish you. This voluntary confession has done
much to redeem your fault. Meet me in my study at nine this
evening, and I will talk to you.

When I came here I hardly hoped to find saints, but I did expect to
find--gentlemen.

And I have not been disappointed." He addressed the others. "You
will return to your boarding-houses, and quietly, if you please."
* * * * *
The immediate and most noticeable effect of Lovell's expulsion was
the loss of the next House match. Damer's defeated the Manor easily.
Some of the fags whispered to each other that the injuries inflicted
by the Head Master on Scaife had been so severe as to incapacitate
the star-player of the House. Two boys had concealed themselves in
the Armoury (which is just below the Fourth Form Room) upon the
morning when Scaife was flogged. But they reported--nothing. However
severe the punishment might have been, Scaife received it without
a whimper.
In truth, Scaife received but one cut, and that a light one. The
Head Master wished to lay stripes upon the boy's heart, not his
body. When he saw him prepared to receive punishment, he said
gravely--
"I have never flogged a member of the Eleven. And now, at the last
moment, I offer you the choice between a flogging and expulsion."
"I prefer to be flogged." 
_And then--one cut._
But Scaife never forgot the walk from the Yard to the Manor, after
execution. He was too proud to run, too proud not to face the boys
he happened to meet. They turned aside their eyes from his furious
glare.
But he met no members of his own House. They had the delicacy to
leave the coast clear. When he reached his room, he found Desmond
alone.
Desmond said nervously--
"I asked Warde if we could have breakfast here this morning, instead
of going into Hall. I've got some ripping salmon."
Scaife had faced everything with a brazen indifference, but the
sympathy in his friend's voice overpowered him. He flung himself
upon the sofa by the window and wept, not as a boy weeps, but with
the cruel, grinding sobs of a man. He wept for his stained pride,
for his vain-glory, not because he had sinned and caused others to
sin. The boy watching him, seeing the hero self-abased, hearing his
heartbreaking sobs, interpreted very differently those sounds.
Infinitely distressed, turning over and over in his mind some
soothing phrases, some word of comfort and encouragement, Desmond
waited till the first paroxysm had passed. What he said then shall
not be set down in cold print. You may be sure he proved that
friendship between two strong, vigorous boys is no frail thread,
but a golden chain which adversity strengthens and refines.
Scaife rose up with his heart softened, not by his own tears, but
by the tears he saw in Desmond's eyes.
"I'm all right now," he said. Then, with frowning brows, he added
thoughtfully, "I deserve what I got for being a fool. I ought to
have foreseen that such a swine as Beaumont-Greene would be sure
to betray us sooner or later. I shall be wiser next time."
"Next--time?" The dismay in Desmond's voice made Scaife smile.
"Don't worry, Cæsar. No more bridge for me; but," he laughed harshly,
"the leopard can't change his spots, and he won't give up hunting
because he has fallen into a trap, and got out of it. Come, let's
tackle the salmon."
The winter term came to an end, and the School broke up. Upon the
evening of the last Sunday, Warde said a few words to John.
"I propose to make some changes in the house," he said abruptly.
"Would you like to share No. 7 with Desmond?"
No. 7 was the jolliest two-room at the Manor. It overlooked the
gardens, and was larger than some three-rooms. Then John remembered
Scaife and the Duffer.
"Desmond has been with Scaife ever since he came to the house, sir."

"True. But I'm going to give Scaife a room to himself. He's entitled
to it as the future Captain of the Eleven. That is--settled. You
and Duff must part. He's two forms below you in the school, and
never likely to soar much higher than the Second Fifth. Next term
you will be in the Sixth, and by the summer I hope Desmond will
have joined you. You will find[32] together. Of course Scaife can
find with you, if you wish. I've spoken to him and Desmond."
And so, John's fondest hope was realized. When he came back to the
Manor, Desmond and he spent much time and rather more money than
they could afford in making No. 7 the cosiest room in the house.
Consciences were salved thus:--John bought for Desmond some picture
or other decorative object which cost more money than he felt
justified in spending on himself; then Desmond made John a similar
present. It was whipping the devil round the stump, John said, but
oh! the delight of giving his friend something he coveted, and
receiving presents from him in return.
During this term, Scaife became one of the school racquet-players.
In many ways he was admittedly the most remarkable boy at Harrow,
the Admirable Crichton who appears now and again in every decade.
He won the high jump and the hurdle-race. These triumphs kept him
out of mischief, and occupied every minute of his time. He associated
with the "Bloods," and one day Desmond told John that he considered
himself to have been "dropped" by this tremendous swell. John
discreetly held his tongue; but in his own mind, as before, he was
convinced that Scaife and Desmond would come together again.Finally, they stand ready to accomplish its destruction and your own
rather than permit England to obtain it."

Arriving at the hotel, the soldiers were drawn up in line while he
entered the door. To his surprise, moreover, the Colonel and two of
the cavalry-men accompanied him to the door of his apartment.

"Mr. Edestone," said the Royal Equerry, "I am sorry, but my orders are
to place a sentry at your door. You are not of course to consider
yourself in any sense a prisoner, but an honoured guest whose safety
is of paramount importance. Should you at any time wish to leave your
apartment, notify Captain Bright by telephone at the hotel office
where he will be stationed, and he will act as your escort. My advice,
however, is that you remain in the hotel." Giving a military salute,
he retired, leaving the two soldiers posted in the corridor.

A moment later, Edestone was summoned to the door to find that the
sentries had halted Black and Stanton whom he had directed to report
to him immediately on his return to the hotel.

A word from him proved sufficient to secure the admission of his
moving-picture experts; nevertheless, the three gazed at one another
uneasily as they stood within the room.

"What is it, Mr. Edestone?" Black's eyes rounded up. "They haven't
placed you under arrest, have they?"

Edestone shook his head. "Apparently not. At least they tell me I am
under no restraint, and, as they might say to a little boy about to be
spanked, that this is all for my own good. Whether or not this is
merely a polite subterfuge, and they intend to postpone my departure
from London from time to time in a way that can give no offence to our
Government, yet would spoil all my plans, I am still uncertain."

"By Jove, it might be worth while trying to find out," flared up
Stanton, bristling at the very suggestion of an indignity to his
adored chief. "If they've got anything of that kind up their sleeves,
we could soon show them that----"

"No." Edestone spoke up a trifle sharply. "I have decided to let the
situation develop itself."

His manner indicated that he wished the subject dropped; but, after he
had given the two men the orders for which he had summoned them, and
dismissed them, he fell into a rather perturbed reverie.

After all, might it not be well, as Stanton had urged, to assure
himself in regard to John Bull's honourable intentions? His mind
reverted to an expedient which he had already considered and cast
aside. It was to communicate with the American Ambassador, get his
passports, and start for Paris at once. Then, if he were halted, the
purpose of the British Government would be made plain and its
hypocrisy exposed.

But, to tell the truth, he rather shrank from such a revelation.
Suppose he forced their hand in this way, and they should retaliate,
either by attempting to detain him in England, or insisting upon his
return to his own country? Was he prepared to----?

As Underhill had said, blood is thicker than water; and there were in
his nature many ties that bound him to the mother-country.

No, he concluded; if there was cause to worry, he would meet the
emergency when it arose. Anyhow, he was not of the worrying kind. He
threw himself down upon the sofa, since even for him it had been a
rather strenuous day, and soon was fast asleep.

He was awakened by James. "It is 7:30, sir, and you are dining at 8
o'clock." Then with a perfectly stolid face: "I beg pardon, sir, what
clothes will you take to the Tower, sir? The hall porter says, sir,
that with all these soldiers around, they are certainly going to stand
you up before a firing squad. And Hottenroth, the barber, says as how
every American that comes to London is more or less a German spy. But
he is a kind of a foreigner himself, sir. A Welshman, he says he is,
and he talks in a very funny way."

"No, they are not going to stand me up before a firing squad,"
Edestone halted this flood of intelligence, as he sprang up from the
sofa; "but I shall turn myself into one, and fire the whole lot of
you, if you don't stop talking so much. Now hurry up, and get me
dressed. I don't want to keep Mr. Rebener waiting."

Yet even with James's adept assistance, he found the time scant for
the careful toilet upon which he always insisted; and it was almost on
the stroke of the hour when at last he was ready.

Snatching his hat and cane from James, he started hurriedly out of the
door, but found himself abruptly challenged by the sentry just outside
whose presence he had for the moment completely forgotten.

"Excuse me, sir," the soldier saluted, "but my orders are to notify
Captain Bright, if you wish to leave your rooms."

He blew a whistle, summoning a comrade who suddenly appeared from
nowhere.

"Notify Captain Bright," he directed; then, in response to Edestone's
good-humoured but slightly sarcastic protests: "I'm sorry, sir, but
those are my orders."

"Has England declared war on the United States?" said Edestone.

"I don't know, sir," the sentry grinned. "We seem to be taking on all
comers." Then standing at attention, he waited until the soldier, who
had returned from telephoning, came forward to announce that the
Captain presented his apologies and would be right up.

A moment later Captain Bright himself came panting down the corridor.
He expressed profound regret that any inconvenience should have been
caused, but explained, as Colonel Stewart had already done, that he
was held personally responsible for Edestone's safety, and had
instructions to accompany him wherever he might go.

"Very well, Captain; I bow to the inevitable. May I trouble you to
conduct me to the dining-room?" And he strolled toward the lift at the
side of the tall cavalryman.

But in the office they encountered Rebener himself writing a note on
the back of his card.

"Oh, there you are, Jack?" he hailed Edestone. "I was just sending you
a note asking you if you wouldn't come and dine with me at the Britz
instead of here. It is too damn stupid here. Not that it's very bright
anywhere in London at present, but at least there's a little bit more
life at the Britz."

"Who is stopping here anyhow? Royalty?" he interrupted himself. "There
are soldiers all over the place."

"Yes; I am the recipient of that little attention," laughed the young
American. "Let me introduce Captain Bright here, who is acting as my
especial chaperon."

"What? You surely haven't run afoul of the War Department?" Rebener
rolled his eyes. "That sounds more like our friends, the barbarians,
than Englishmen. But, say, you are joking of course; you're not really
in trouble? Seriously is there anything you want me to do for you? I
have quite a little pull over at the War Offices, you know."

"No, thank you; I am leaving for Paris tomorrow." He looked straight
into Rebener's eyes, without giving the slightest hint in his
expression of the disclosure which had been made to him by the
unfortunate Smith. "It is simply that Captain Bright thinks there are
some people who might do something to me. I don't know exactly what it
is, but he insists on preventing them anyhow; so there you are. How
about it, Captain? Am I permitted to dine with Mr. Rebener at the
Britz? I think the Britz is a perfectly safe place for two American
business men."

"As you please, Mr. Edestone." The Captain drew himself up. "My orders
are to escort you, though, wherever you go." He raised his hand toward
a sergeant who was standing just inside the door.

"What! You are not going to take all the 'Tommies' along too?"
expostulated Rebener. "Oh, I say; you come along yourself, Captain,
and dine with us, but leave the men behind. I will see that Edestone
doesn't come to any grief."

"Sorry." The officer's tone ended any further argument. "I shall keep
my men as much out of sight as possible; but it will be necessary for
them to accompany us."

"You see." Edestone smiled somewhat ruefully. "I can't even go out to
buy a paper, without turning it into a sort of Fourth of July parade."

On going to the door they found that one of the royal carriages was
waiting for them, and after the two men were seated, and the Captain
had given the directions to the coachman, they dashed off in the midst
of a cavalcade.

"By the way," Rebener vouchsafed as they drove along, "I have taken
the liberty of inviting Lord Denton and Mr. Karlbeck, two friends of
mine, to dine with us tonight, and as Lord Denton is in mourning, he
has asked that I have dinner in my apartment. I hope that is all
right?"

"Certainly," assented Edestone. "Lord Denton, you say? I don't think I
have ever met him, have I? And isn't he just a little supersensitive
to raise a scruple of that sort? It seems to me that practically
everybody over here is in mourning. Fact is, I don't feel like going
to a ball myself." His face saddened, as he thought of the many good
fellows he had met on former visits to London who now lay underneath
the sod of Northern France and Belgium.

But by this time they were at the Britz and the proprietor was bowing
them inside, apparently so accustomed to receiving men of distinction
with military escort that he did not even notice the lines of trim
cavalrymen which drew themselves up on either side of his entrance.

"Will you gentlemen dine in the public restaurant?" asked Captain
Bright, stepping up to Edestone.

"No," Rebener took it upon himself to answer. "We are going to have a
little _partie carrée_ in my apartment."

"In that case," said the Captain, "I regret that I shall have to
station men on that floor."

Rebener frowned as if he were about to voice a protest, but at that
moment the proprietor called him over to consult with him in regard to
the menu.

For a moment or two they discussed it calmly enough; then as the
proprietor began to gesticulate and wax vehement, Rebener spoke over
his shoulder to his guest.

"Excuse me, Jack," he said, "but M. Bombiadi insists that I hold a
council of war with him over the selection of the wines. He declines
to accept the responsibility with such a distinguished personage as
you seem to have become." Then lowering his voice, he added with a
wink: "He is evidently impressed with that military escort of yours,
for all that he pretended not to notice it. I won't be away a minute."

He was hurried by the proprietor through the office and into one of
the small duplex apartments on the main floor. Passing through the
pantry and dining-room of the apartment out into the little private
hall with its street door on Piccadilly, and up a short flight of
marble steps with an iron railing, he was ushered into a handsomely
furnished little parlour.

There, standing in front of the mantelpiece was a man who did not look
like an Englishman, but more like a German Jew. He was perfectly bald
and had a black beard which was rather long and trimmed to a point.
His nose was unmistakable, and taken with his thick, red lips showed
pretty well what he was and whence he came. Talking to him very
earnestly was another man, who was much smaller, and who was also
German to the finger-tips.

Pausing on the threshold, M. Bombiadi with the servile and cringing
tone always assumed by those frock-coated criminals, European hotel
proprietors, asked humbly: "May we come in, Your Royal Highness?"

But Rebener, with the air of a man who was not accustomed to, or else
declined to consider, such formalities, unhesitatingly brushed the
proprietor aside, and walked up to the two men.

"I am sorry to be late," he said in a thoroughly businesslike manner,
"but Bombiadi here has doubtless explained the reason for it." Then,
as if he purposely refused to acknowledge the high rank of either of
the two men by waiting for them to speak, he said brusquely, even with
a slight touch of contempt: "Bombiadi tells me that you want to speak
with me, before we meet at the table."

"Yes, Mr. Rebener," said the smaller man, bowing with exaggerated
ceremony. "If it is not asking too much of you, I am sure that His
Royal Highness will appreciate your kindness."

The silky smoothness of his manner seemed to disgust Rebener.

"Now, look here, Karlbeck, don't try to get friendly with me," he drew
back as the other attempted to lay a hand upon his arm. "I am not in
love with this business, anyhow. I am German, and I am proud of the
Fatherland, as she stands with her back against the wall, fighting the
entire civilized world--and some of the barbaric;--but you two fellows
are Englishmen, and----"

"Pardon me, Mr. Rebener," the man with the beard broke in angrily.
"You seem to forget to whom you are speaking."

"No, that is just the trouble," cried Rebener with a loud laugh. "I
can't seem to forget it. And if Your Royal Highness insists upon
keeping on your crown, you had better let Mr. Edestone and myself dine
alone."

"Please, Mr. Rebener. Please not so loud," cautioned the proprietor,
pale with terror. "One never knows who may be listening."

"I have a word for you too." Rebener turned, and shook a threatening
finger in his face. "If I find that you cut-throats have murdered
Schmidt, I will turn you over to the London police, and let you be
hanged as common murderers without having any of the glory of dying
for your country. I distinctly told you, that I would not stand for
that sort of thing. He was a miserable creature, but he was an
American, and we Americans, even if we have got German blood, are not
traitors to the country of our adoption." And he looked with a sneer
at the two Englishmen. "Now, if any of you are planning to indulge in
any of your pretty little tricks with Mr. Edestone tonight, I give you
fair warning. I will call Captain Bright in, and turn the whole lot of
you over to him. I think he would be rather surprised to find His
Royal Highness in such company."

The man with the beard was literally white with rage. The thick veins
swelled along his neck, and his lower lip was trembling. But he
controlled himself with an effort, and endeavoured to speak calmly.

"Now, now, Mr. Rebener," he said, "you are unnecessarily excited, and
I therefore overlook your disrespect toward me. There is no intention
whatever of doing any violence to Mr. Edestone. We hope merely to
prevail on him to talk."

"What good will his talking do?" cried the smaller man before his
associate could silence him. "We know all that he said today at
Buckingham Palace. What we want is his instrument, and if we're not
going after that, what use is this dinner, I would like to know?"

"I can't tell you," rejoined Rebener, "unless His Royal Highness would
be willing to show his hand, and try to persuade Edestone to take our
view of the matter."

A sharp retort trembled on the lips of the Jewish-looking man, but
just then he caught sight of Bombiadi out of the corner of his eyes
gesticulating and making signs to him from behind Rebener's back.

"I suppose that is the only chance left us," he pretended to consider.
"We can try it at any rate. I suppose, too, we had better come to your
apartment immediately. Remember, though, we are to remain incognito
until I give the word. In the meantime, we are simply 'Lord Denton'
and 'Mr. Karlbeck.'"

On that agreement, Rebener left; but the proprietor, after following
him far enough to make sure that he was out of earshot, returned to
the little parlour where the other men waited.

"We will have to leave him out of our calculations," he shook his
head. "He is not heart and soul in the cause as is your Royal
Highness. However, it can be managed without Rebener.

"Hottenroth has telephoned me that he thinks Edestone has the
instrument on his person, but cannot make sure, as his rooms at
Claridge's are too closely guarded to permit of a search. We must go
upon the assumption that he has it with him, however, and get it away
from him. That plan of Your Royal Highness's will work perfectly, I am
sure. I will call Edestone to the telephone while you are at dinner,
and since the rest of you will all remain at the table, how can
Rebener suspect either of you gentlemen any more than he would suspect
himself.

"Now, I will return in a few minutes, and take you up to Mr. Rebener's
apartment. No one knows of your presence in the house so far, I can
assure you, and the servants on that floor may be thoroughly depended
upon."


CHAPTER XVI

A DINNER AT THE BRITZ


When Rebener got back to the entrance hall he found Edestone standing
talking with an American newspaper correspondent, and as he came up
heard the inventor say: "Well you can say that if I sell my discovery
to anyone it will be to the United States, and that rather than sell
to any other nation I would hand it over to my own country as a free
gift."

"Here, here," Rebener joined in laughingly as he came up, "don't you
offer to give away anything. Just because your father left you
comfortably well off is no reason that you shouldn't sell things if
people want to buy. Sell and sell while you've got the market, and
sell to the highest bidder. Look at me, I am selling to both sides;
that is my way of stopping this war." He turned to the young newspaper
man. "Is there anything new, Ralph?"

"Nothing, Mr. Rebener, except that there is a story out in New York
that Mr. Edestone here has been sent over to act as a sort of
unofficial go-between to bring England and Germany to terms; but he
denies this. Then there is another story that he is trying to sell
this new invention of his to England and that the German agents are
trying to get it away from him before he does. You've just heard what
he has to say on that subject, so I seem to have landed on a 'Flivver'
all around.

"Say, Mr. Edestone, you'll give me the dope on this lay-out won't you,
before the other boys get to it?" he wheedled. "We all know that
something is going on, and she's going to be a big story when she
breaks, and it would be the making of me with the 'old man' if I could
put it over first.

"I saw you, sir, this afternoon coming home from the Palace," he
chuckled, "and the President, going out to the first ball game of the
season, surrounded by the Washington Blues, to toss the pill into the
diamond, certainly had nothing on you."

"You've struck it," said Edestone, with a good-humoured laugh at
himself. "I have been trying all day to think what I looked like, and
that's it."

Rebener laid his hand upon his arm. "Well, Jack," he said, "hadn't we
better be getting up to my place? I don't want to keep the other
gentlemen waiting, and these Europeans have an awful habit of coming
at the hour they are invited, and do not, as we do in America, in
imitation of the 'Snark,' 'dine on the following day.'

"Good-night, Ralph," he waved his hand to the correspondent. "Drop
around tomorrow; I may have something for you."

Then as they were going up in the elevator he confided to Edestone: "I
am not so crazy about these two chaps that are coming to dinner
tonight, but you know most of the good sort are at the front, or, if
they happen to be in London, are too busy to waste their time on us
Americans. Do you know, Jack, there is at this time quite a bit of
feeling against us in England? Exactly what it is they resent it is
hard to say. I certainly do not understand how they can expect us to
take any part in this war with our population composed of people from
every one of the countries that are engaged."

They had scarcely had time to take off their coats when Lord Denton
and Mr. Karlbeck came in through the private entrance. Edestone was
introduced, and after the two Americans had had their cocktails, both
Englishmen having declined to indulge in this distinctly American
custom, the four sat down to dinner. Rebener put "Lord Denton" on his
right, Edestone on his left, while "Mr. Karlbeck" took the only
remaining seat. The conversation was general, and Edestone found that
both the Englishmen were evidently making an effort to be agreeable.

"You are quite like an Englishman," said "Lord Denton" addressing him.
"I have known so few really nice Americans that I must say it is a
most delightful surprise. When I was told that you were a great
American inventor, I was prepared to see a fellow with the back of his
neck shaved, who, while chewing gum, would seize my lapel and hold on
to it while he insisted on explaining how I could save time and money
by using his electrical self-starting dishwasher or some such beastly
machine. When I visited New York two years ago, a committee had me in
charge for three days. Their one idea seemed to be to force large
cigars and mixed drinks on me at all hours of the day and night. One
of these charming gentlemen, a particularly objectionable fellow,
although he seemed to be very rich, was covered with diamonds and wore
the most ridiculous evening clothes topped off with a yachting cap
fronted with the insignia of some rowing club of which he had been
admiral. He always referred to his one-thousand-ton yacht as his
'little canoe,' and took delight in telling exactly what it cost him
by the hour to run, invariably adding that this amount did not include
his own food, wines, liquors, and cigars. 'We always charge that up to
profit-and-loss account,' he would say with a roar of laughter, in
which he was joined by a group of his satellites."

"I'll bet I can call the turn, eh, Jack?" Rebener glanced across the
table to Edestone, with a twinkle in his eye. "Didn't the chap also
tell you with great seriousness, 'Lord Denton,' that he had pulled off
more good deals in his 'little canoe' than in all the hotel corridors
put together?"

"Well, I sincerely hope it's the same," said "Lord Denton." "You can't
have two such creatures in your country?"

"Was that the chap, 'Denton,'" broke in "Karlbeck," "who said to you,
the day that he slapped you on the back, that he was not so strong for
making all this fuss over Princes and things, as in his opinion it
wasn't democratic?"

"Yes, that was when I was on board his yacht, but he said I was all
right and he didn't mind spending money on me. 'This is my pleasure
today,' he said, 'although the Boss did say he wanted you treated
right, and his word goes both ways with me. See!'"

"Tell them about your experience with the New York newspaper men,"
suggested "Karlbeck."

"Oh, that was very amusing! The whole committee would stand around and
laugh while the 'boys,' as they called them, had a chance, which
consisted in my being asked the most impertinent questions by a lot of
objectionable little bounders whom they constantly referred to as 'the
greatest institution of our glorious country,' at times allowing also
that the country was 'God's own.'

"When I objected, some of your most powerful men would say: 'You had
better tell the reporters something or they'll get sore on you and
print a lot of lies about your women-folk.'

"The particularly offensive gentleman of whom I have spoken, after
telling me what he thought of the British aristocracy, which was not
always flattering, though I seemed to be exempt, said as he bade me
good-bye: 'By the way, don't forget that my wife and two daughters
will be stopping in London next spring.'"

"Well," inquired Edestone with a faint smile, "you did forget that his
wife and two daughters were stopping in London in the spring, I am
quite sure, and sure that he is convinced you got the best of it."

"Oh, I say, Mr. Edestone, that was a nasty one! You really would not
have expected me to introduce that fellow at my clubs, would you?"
"No," said Edestone, toying with something on the table to hide the
smile that played across his lips. "No, no, not at all. The Lord Mayor
of London would have satisfied him."

He would have dropped the subject there, but pressed by the other man
he continued rather seriously: "Since you ask me, 'Lord Denton,' I do
think that you should not have accepted that man's hospitality unless
you were prepared to return it to a certain extent."

"Well, what would you have expected His Royal Highness to do--I mean
'Lord Denton?'" "Karlbeck" corrected himself hastily. Edestone set his
glass down, and looked at the man for a moment. When he finally spoke
it was with a touch of asperity. With a sarcastic smile he said:

"The quiet way in which you Europeans accept everything from us and
return nothing, is being resented, not by the lower classes for they
read in our papers how the King shook hands with Jack Johnson; not by
the _nouveaux riches_, for they are perfectly satisfied with the
notoriety they get at the hands of your broken-down aristocracy who
spend their money,--no not by these classes, but by our ladies and
gentlemen."

"Then why do you entertain our Princes so lavishly?" sneered
"Karlbeck."

"It is our sense of humour, which allows us to be imposed upon. That
sense of humour is often mistaken for hysterical hospitality by the
distinguished stranger. We--and when I say we I mean people of
breeding which does not include the vulgarian who knows nothing and
may be the son of your father's ninth gardener--we know that the more
ridiculous we appear to you, the better you like it. Not to appear
ridiculous offends you, as it arouses a feeling of rivalry to which
you object, but with your lack of that same sense of humour, this you
deny."

Again he would have willingly dropped the subject, but "Lord Denton"
once more insisted upon keeping up the discussion.

"You must remember," said he, "Prince Henry's visit to America. You
don't mean to tell me the Americans were not complimented and pleased
at a visit from a Royal Prince?"

Edestone laughed. "You mean when Prince Henry of Prussia came over to
bridge the chasm which had formed between the German and American
nations over the Manila episode, by the interchange of courtesies
between the two ruling families, the Hohenzollerns and the Roosevelts?

"I was surprised that the Kaiser was so poorly informed as not to know
our attitude toward him and his Divine Right and mailed fist. Why,
everybody laughed except the Kaiser and the President--they were the
only ones who were fooled: the Kaiser, because he could not help
himself, it was in his blood; and Roosevelt, because he was at that
time in a most septic condition and was suffering from auto-intoxication
at the hands of that particular form of microbe."

"Edestone entertained Prince Henry himself at his Little Place in the
Country," said Rebener, who saw that "Lord Denton" was losing his
temper.

"Yes, I did," said Edestone. "Not that I thought he would enjoy it,
but somebody--and now when I come to think of it, you were the man,
Rebener--insisted that he would like to visit my machine shops. And he
did seem to enjoy seeing them very much, and Admiral Tirpitz and his
staff took all kinds of notes while asking all kinds of questions."
The reminiscence seemed to make the three other men a trifle
uncomfortable.

"Oh! what difference does it make after all?" said Rebener. "Let's get
down to business.

"Now, Edestone," he turned to the inventor, "you know me, and I'm not
much for beating about the bush. When I want something, my motto is,
'Go to it.' My object in inviting you here to meet these gentlemen
tonight was to see if we can't get together. As I understand the
situation, Jack, you have something that you think is pretty good. You
have lots of money, and you don't want to sell it. You don't have to,
but you want to get England to use it, and if she won't, you will try
Germany. Now is not that just about the size of it?"

"To a certain extent, yes," replied Edestone.

"Then why in the name of common sense don't you let 'Lord Denton' and
me have it and we will guarantee to have it used where it will do the
most good. He has more pull with the Government than any man in
England. I think you know pretty well now who he is," he added with a
wink. "If it is the war you want stopped, he is the best man outside
of the King or Kaiser."

"Well, yes, Mr. Rebener," said Edestone, "I do know who 'Lord Denton'
is and had the pleasure of seeing him this afternoon at Buckingham
Palace, but I thought perhaps he would prefer that I should preserve
his incognito and, following the example of his most charming Duchess,
permitted myself to forget. I shall be most happy to----"

He halted and turned as a waiter stepped up behind his chair to
interrupt him.

"I beg pardon, sir, but the Marquis of Lindenberry wishes to speak to
you on the telephone.

"I am sorry, sir, but you will have to go to the booth in the room
behind the stairs. Mr. Rebener's telephone is out of order."

"What do you mean, 'my telephone is out of order'?" Rebener glanced up
sharply. "I used it not twenty minutes ago." And going into the
adjoining room he tried to speak to the floor switchboard.

"The fellow's right," he admitted on returning to the table. "You'll
have to use the booth, Jack. Waiter, show Mr. Edestone where to go."

"This way, sir," said the waiter, and he conducted Edestone down the
long corridor, passing one of Captain Bright's cavalrymen at almost
every turn. Just around the foot of the stairs the waiter showed him a
door.

"There it is, sir," he pointed.

Edestone went in and found himself in a room that was almost dark. It
was lighted only by a shaded electric bulb used by the man at the
switchboard, who sat facing the door but hidden from anyone entering
by the high instrument in front of him. Edestone walked over to him,
finding him almost obscured by the huge green shade pulled down over
his eyes, and seemingly very much occupied with both incoming and
outgoing calls.

"Is there a call for Mr. Edestone?" he asked.

"Yes, sir," said the man without looking up from his plugs. "The
second booth from this end, No. 2."

Edestone, turning, saw in the dim light a row of booths against the
wall over beyond the door. It was quite dark in that corner, but he
could see that the door of the second booth was open. He went inside,
muttering as he did so, "I think they might give a fellow a little
more light."

As he sat down and took up the receiver, he put out his hand to stop
the door from slowly closing, apparently by itself. It was one of
those double-walled, sound-proof, stuffy boxes, and he did not want
the door shut tight, so he put out his foot to hold it open. But he
was just a moment too late. The door shut with a little bang, and when
he tried to open it again, he found that it seemed to have jammed.


CHAPTER XVII

THE VOICE IN THE TELEPHONE


Edestone waited. He thought he heard, or rather he felt, a vibration
as if someone were moving in the next booth. He tried the door again,
but found that it held fast.

He was about to signal the switchboard operator and tell him to come
and open up the booth, when an, "Are you there, Mr. Edestone?" came to
him from across the wire, and caused him for the moment to forget the
refractory door.

"Hello!" he answered. "Yes; I am Mr. Edestone. Who is this?"

The voice, instead of replying directly, spoke as if to another person
with an aside. "Mr. Edestone is on the wire."

A moment, and then a second voice spoke. "Are you there, Mr.
Edestone?"

It was not the voice of his friend, and he answered a trifle
impatiently: "Yes. Who are you? Are you speaking for the Marquis of
Lindenberry?"

"No, I am not," came the reply. "And I must apologize for having used
his name."

The voice bore the unmistakable intonation of an English gentleman.

"I am the Count Kurtz von Hemelstein. I regret that circumstances
compel me to force myself upon you in this caddish manner. But my duty
as a soldier in the service of His Majesty, the Emperor of Germany,
demands it. I shall not delay you long, however, if you will only do
what I ask."

There was a moment's pause. Involuntarily Edestone drew back slightly
from the instrument.

"Count Kurtz von Hemelstein, did you say?" He spoke with a touch of
sternness. "I do not think that I have ever had the pleasure of
meeting you, sir. I did meet a Count Heinrich von Hemelstein last
summer."

"Yes; that was my brother. He has often spoken of you, Mr. Edestone.
If I am not mistaken, you were rivals for the attention of a pretty,
young matron with a good-natured husband?"

"Not rivals, Count von Hemelstein." Edestone laughed, but under the
laugh he was doing some rapid thinking. "Your brother was the favoured
one, and when the war broke out, and he had to leave for the front,
the lady was almost inconsolable.

"But, Count von Hemelstein," he continued, "what can I do for you? We
Americans, you know, do not always insist upon a formal introduction.
As we say, 'Any friend of a friend of mine.'"

"Also, you are wrong on one point," said the Count, with a little
chuckle. "I have had the pleasure of meeting you. It was a trifle
informal, I must admit, but you were just as charming as you are now,
and I think I am indebted to you to the amount of several shillings.
In the end, you did leave me rather abruptly, and seemed offended at
something I had done; but I trust you have recovered from that by this
time." Edestone could hear him laughing heartily.

"You have met me?" repeated Edestone, completely mystified. "When and
where?"

"Today; in London. Indeed, I am in London now."

"In London, Count von Hemelstein?" Involuntarily Edestone lowered his
voice. "But I say, isn't that taking a bit of a chance for a German
officer? Where are you speaking from now, may I ask?"

The Count was laughing so, that just at first he could not answer; but
after a moment he managed to control his amusement.

"I am in the next booth to you," he said.

When he spoke again, his tone had lost all trace of levity and become
hard and direct like that of a man charged with a distasteful duty,
yet with which he was determined not to let his feelings interfere.

"In regard to our meeting today," he said; "I was in disguise. In
short, I was the taxi-driver whom you gave the slip this afternoon by
the aid of that cur, Schmidt. And now, Mr. Edestone, you must realize
what it is I want." In a more conciliatory tone, he added: "I can see
no reason, however, why we should not settle this matter as between
gentlemen."

"Please be more explicit," returned Edestone, quietly.

"In brief, then, I am authorized by my Government to meet, and even
double or quadruple any offer for your invention made by the English
Government. I will take your word of honour. All that you have to do
is to say now, on your word as a gentleman, that you will sell it to
my Government, and you can return to your friends. My Government will
then communicate with you, and close with you at your own price."

"And if I decline the proposition?" said Edestone.

"Then I fear I shall be compelled to use force; and much as I may
regret to do so, I will tell you that I am prepared to stop at
nothing.

"You are now," he went on, "locked in that solid oak booth, with its
strong double doors, perfectly sound-proof. The operator at the
switchboard is my man. He can by pulling a wire uncork a bottle which
is concealed in your booth and asphyxiate you in one half minute."

But if he had expected the American to show any trepidation as a
result of his threats, he soon found out his mistake. Edestone's reply
was as insouciant as if he had been merely commenting on the weather.

"Really, this is quite interesting, Count von Hemelstein," he said. "I
might almost call you a man after my own heart. That bottle trick is
so simple and yet effective that I, as an inventor, cannot help but
compliment you. I am wondering just what chemical you have employed.
There are of course a dozen or more that would answer your purpose;
but as their action varies greatly in the effect upon the victim, I am
naturally curious."

"Does that mean that you are about to decline my offer?" demanded the
Count sharply. "Have a care, Mr. Edestone. I am not merely trying to
frighten you, as you may suppose. The facts are just as I have stated
them, and I shall not hesitate to----"

"Assuredly, my dear Count," Edestone broke in. "I have never doubted
that for a moment. Nor am I going to refuse your proposition--that is,
not definitely. Instead, I have been so pleased by the charming manner
in which you have presented this little matter that I desire to submit
a counter-proposition. Only, I must beg you to urge your modest friend
with the weak eyes out there at the switchboard to be a little careful
with that wire. Judging from the atmosphere in this booth, his bottle
has been leaking for some time."

"Come, come, Mr. Edestone." The Count's voice rose nervously, showing
the strain under which he was labouring. "I have already told you that
this is no joke. If it is your game to play for time, in the hope that
some one may come to release you, or that you may discover the manner
in which the bottle is secreted, you are going to be disappointed. I
must do my work quickly. If I do not have your answer at once, I will
give the signal and take your instrument away from you by force."

"It is not time I want, but air." Edestone gave a little gasp. "You
yourself have spent more time than I, with your kind explanations as
to how I may avoid what would be to me a most distressing accident.
However, since celerity is what you want, I hasten to say that I have
not my instrument, nor indeed any instrument with me."

"Not with you?" snapped the Prussian angrily. "Where is it, then?"

"Ah! That is my counter-proposition. Count von Hemelstein, if I
promise to tell you, on my word of honour, where you may find this
instrument of mine that contains the entire secret of my
invention--and it is near at hand where, if you are a brave man, you
can easily get it,--if I do this, will you, on your side, give me your
word as a gentleman, that you will immediately open this booth?

"I may add," he went on, as von Hemelstein seemed to hesitate, "that
this is my last and only proposition, and you can take that or
nothing. I will die here in this box before I will sell my invention
to any European Government; but you may have it as a free gift, Count,
if you have the nerve to go after it. There is a challenge to your
boasted Prussian valour! Are you a sport, Count von Hemelstein, or are
you not?"

Von Hemelstein wavered no longer. From what Edestone told him, he
argued that the inventor must have left his instrument with some of
his subordinates, probably Black and Stanton, and relied upon them to
protect it; and it stung him to think that the American should believe
a German officer would falter at such odds--a couple of electricians,
mere Yankee artisans.

"Yes," he growled hoarsely. "I accept your terms. It is a bargain."

"On your honour?"

"On my word of honour as a Prussian officer and a gentleman."

"Well, then, hurry up and open this door. It is getting stifling in
here; and, besides, Rebener will be growing anxious about me."

"But, first, your information. Where is the instrument?"

"Oh, the instrument?" It was now Edestone's turn to laugh. "Why, that
is lying on the floor under the table in Mr. Rebener's dining-room. I
dropped it there, when I came out to answer your telephone call, and I
also gave instructions to the sentries on guard at the door of the
apartment to shoot any one who attempted to pass in or out during my
absence. You are doubtless a brave man, but I do not think you are
prepared to tackle a whole company of British cavalry.

"And now," he concluded, "I have kept to my bargain. Will you kindly
open the door?"

A muttered German imprecation, like a snarl of baffled chagrin, was
his only answer. But a moment later the door to his booth swung open,
and he was free.

As he stepped out, he found the lights in the room turned on, and the
man at the switchboard gone. He also noticed that the door to the
adjoining booth was shaking, as if someone had just jerked it open and
had passed out hurriedly, and, as he came out into the corridor, he
thought he glimpsed the figure of a man hastily disappearing down the
staircase. So far as any other evidence went, except for his wilted
collar and heaving lungs, the whole experience might have been a
dream.

He returned quietly to the dinner table, and stooping over, as if to
pick up his napkin, recovered the instrument and slipped it into his
trousers pocket.

"Lord Denton" and "Karlbeck" kept staring at him with puzzled, almost
incredulous faces.

"Did you find your friend on the wire?" finally ventured "Lord
Denton," leaning across the table toward him.

"No; it was another gentleman speaking for him," smiled Edestone, "a
mere visitor to England like myself. I took the liberty of asking him
to join us, but he declined. He is, I fancy, leaving the country very
shortly--probably going to Berlin."

A little gasp from behind him caused him to turn in his seat. It came
from the hotel proprietor who, entering the room by the rear door,
stood rooted in amazement at the sight of Edestone, his jaw dropping,
his eyes as big as saucers.

Edestone regarded him a moment; then turned to his host.

"What silly-looking waiters you have in this hotel, Rebener," he said.
"That fellow yonder doesn't appear to have brains enough to be even a
German spy."

The real waiter, overhearing this compliment to his employer, clapped
his hand over his mouth and dived for the pantry, just managing to get
through the swinging door before he exploded.

The self-satisfied Bombiadi also overheard, and although he
endeavoured to appear unconscious, a dull red flush crept up over his
cheeks, and after shifting for a moment from one foot to the other, he
left the room.

"Lord Denton" and "Karlbeck" exchanged glances out of the corners of
their eyes; and Rebener, although he made out to grin at the speech,
shifted a little uneasily in his chair.

But Edestone, who, under his quiet exterior, possessed a rather
mischievous spirit, was not yet through with them.

"As I was saying when I was called to the telephone," he leaned across
the table toward the _incognito_ Royal Duke, "the desire of Your Royal
Highness--pardon me, I mean, of 'Lord Denton'--is of course to see
England victorious in this contest; but that may mean years of
fighting and an appalling loss of men and money. Such true patriots as
yourself and 'Mr. Karlbeck' must see that it would be far better to
end the war now, provided that a lasting peace can be ensured, and
that I think I can guarantee with my discovery. I should be delighted,
therefore, to co-operate with you gentlemen to that end, and if you
would advocate the proposition that England allow me to go to Berlin
with something to show that she is willing to enter into _pour
parlers_, I shall bring pressure to bear on Germany to make some
liberal answer."

"Lord Denton," however, seemed no longer interested in the matter, and
was unable to concentrate his attention; while "Mr. Karlbeck" made no
attempt to hide the fact that he was disgusted gusted with the
evening, and wished to see it end as soon as possible.

Rebener, seeing his dinner a failure, although not quite understanding
the cause, like many a nervous host compelled to face a tableful of
distinguished guests who do not hesitate to show that they are bored,
did the silliest thing possible under the circumstances, and drank
more than he should.

Presently he began to talk in such unrestrained fashion that "Mr.
Karlbeck" looked as if he would faint with apprehension, while His
Royal Highness sought by every possible means to divert Edestone's
attention from the broad hints and imprudent revelations that were
thrown out.

They were still engaged at this, when suddenly the door was thrown
open, and some one announced in a loud voice, "The King's Messenger!"

"Karlbeck" and "Lord Denton" sprang to their feet, their faces ashy
pale, as they stood grasping the backs of their chairs. When, a moment
later, Colonel Stewart, the Equerry, appeared on the threshold, they
both crumpled up, and dropped into their chairs, fit subjects for the
starch-pot.

The Colonel stared at them in undisguised surprise, a slow frown
gathering between his eyes.

He was an excellent musician, however, as well, and played both the
violin and the piano better than most amateurs. In fact, it was music
that had first brought him and Dorian Gray together--music and
that indefinable attraction that Dorian seemed to be able to exercise
whenever he wished, and indeed exercised often without being
conscious of it.

They had met at Lady Berkshire's the night that Rubinstein played there,
and after that used to be always seen together at the Opera, and wherever
good music was going on. For eighteen months their intimacy lasted.
Campbell was always either at Selby Royal or in Grosvenor Square.
To him, as to many others, Dorian Gray was the type of everything
that is wonderful and fascinating in life.

Whether or not a quarrel had taken place between them no one ever knew.
But suddenly people remarked that they scarcely spoke when they
met, and that Campbell seemed always to go away early from any party
at which Dorian Gray was present.

He had changed, too--was strangely melancholy at times, appeared almost
to dislike hearing music, and would never himself play, giving as his
excuse, when he was called upon, that he was so absorbed in science
that he had no time left in which to practise.

And this was certainly true. Every day he seemed to become more
interested in biology, and his name appeared once or twice in some
of the scientific reviews, in connection with certain curious
experiments.

This was the man Dorian Gray was waiting for.

Every second he kept glancing at the clock. As the minutes went by
he became horribly agitated.

At last he got up, and began to pace up and down the room, looking like
a beautiful caged thing. He took long stealthy strides. His hands
were curiously cold.

The suspense became unbearable. Time seemed to him to be crawling
with feet of lead, while he by monstrous winds was being swept towards
the jagged edge of some black cleft of precipice.

He knew what was waiting for him there; saw it indeed, and, shuddering,
crushed with dank hands his burning lids as though he would have
robbed the very brain of sight, and driven the eyeballs back into
their cave. It was useless. The brain had its own food on which it
battened, and the imagination, made grotesque by terror, twisted
and distorted as a living thing by pain, danced like some foul
puppet on a stand, and grinned through moving masks.

Then, suddenly, Time stopped for him. Yes: that blind, slow-breathing
thing crawled no more, and horrible thoughts, Time being dead, raced
nimbly on in front, and dragged a hideous future from its grave,
and showed it to him. He stared at it. Its very horror made him
stone.

At last the door opened, and his servant entered. He turned
glazed eyes upon him.

"Mr. Campbell, sir," said the man.

A sigh of relief broke from his parched lips, and the colour came back
to his cheeks.

"Ask him to come in at once, Francis."

He felt that he was himself again. His mood of cowardice had
passed away.

The man bowed, and retired. In a few moments Alan Campbell walked
in, looking very stern and rather pale, his pallor being intensified
by his coal-black hair and dark eyebrows.

"Alan! this is kind of you. I thank you for coming."

"I had intended never to enter your house again, Gray. But
you said it was a matter of life and death." His voice was hard
and cold. He spoke with slow deliberation. There was a look of
contempt in the steady searching gaze that he turned on Dorian.
He kept his hands in the pockets of his Astrakhan coat, and seemed not
to have noticed the gesture with which he had been greeted.

"Yes: it is a matter of life and death, Alan, and to more than one
person. Sit down."

Campbell took a chair by the table, and Dorian sat opposite to him.
The two men's eyes met. In Dorian's there was infinite pity. He knew
that what he was going to do was dreadful.

After a strained moment of silence, he leaned across and said, very
quietly, but watching the effect of each word upon the face of him
he had sent for, "Alan, in a locked room at the top of this house,
a room to which nobody but myself has access, a dead man is seated at
a table.
He has been dead ten hours now.

Don't stir, and don't look at me like that. Who the man is, why he died,
how he died, are matters that do not concern you. What you have to do
is this----"
"Stop, Gray.

I don't want to know anything further. Whether what you have told me is
true or not true, doesn't concern me. I entirely decline to be mixed
up in your life. Keep your horrible secrets to yourself.
They don't interest me any more."
"Alan, they will have to interest you. This one will have to interest
you. I am awfully sorry for you, Alan. But I can't help myself. You
are the one man who is able to save me. I am forced to bring you
into the matter. I have no option. Alan, you are scientific. You
know about chemistry, and things of that kind. You have made
experiments.

What you have got to do is to destroy the thing that is upstairs--to
destroy it so that not a vestige of it will be left. Nobody saw
this person come into the house. Indeed, at the present moment he is
supposed to be in Paris. He will not be missed for months. When
he is missed, there must be no trace of him found here.

You, Alan, you must change him, and everything that belongs to him, into
a handful of ashes that I may scatter in the air."
"You are mad, Dorian."
"Ah!

I was waiting for you to call me Dorian."

"You are mad, I tell you--mad to imagine that I would raise a finger
to help you, mad to make this monstrous confession. I will have nothing
to do with this matter, whatever it is. Do you think I am going to
peril my reputation for you? What is it to me what devil's work
you are up to?"
"It was suicide, Alan."

"I am glad of that. But who drove him to it? You, I should fancy."
"Do you still refuse to do this for me?"
"Of course I refuse. I will have absolutely nothing to do with it. I
don't care what shame comes on you. You deserve it all. I should
not be sorry to see you disgraced, publicly disgraced.

How dare you ask me, of all men in the world, to mix myself up in this
horror? I should have thought you knew more about people's characters.
Your friend Lord Henry Wotton can't have taught you much about psychology,
whatever else he has taught you. Nothing will induce me to stir a
step to help you. You have come to the wrong man. Go to some
of your friends. Don't come to me."
"Alan, it was murder. I killed him. You don't know what he had made
me suffer. Whatever my life is, he had more to do with the making
or the marring of it than poor Harry has had.

He may not have intended it, the result was the same."
"Murder! Good God, Dorian, is that what you have come to? I shall not
inform upon you. It is not my business. Besides, without my stirring
in the matter, you are certain to be arrested. Nobody ever commits a
crime without doing something stupid. But I will have nothing to
do with it."

"You must have something to do with it. Wait, wait a moment; listen
to me. Only listen, Alan. All I ask of you is to perform a certain
scientific experiment. You go to hospitals and dead-houses, and the
horrors that you do there don't affect you.

If in some hideous dissecting-room or fetid laboratory you found this
man lying on a leaden table with red gutters scooped out in it for
the blood to flow through, you would simply look upon him as an
admirable subject.

You would not turn a hair. You would not believe that you were doing
anything wrong.
On the contrary, you would probably feel that you were benefiting
the human race, or increasing the sum of knowledge in the world,
or gratifying intellectual curiosity, or something of that kind.

What I want you to do is merely what you have often done before.
Indeed, to destroy a body must be far less horrible than what you are
accustomed to work at. And, remember, it is the only piece of evidence
against me.

If it is discovered, I am lost; and it is sure to be discovered unless
you help me."
"I have no desire to help you. You forget that. I am simply indifferent
to the whole thing. It has nothing to do with me."
"Alan, I entreat you. Think of the position I am in. Just before you
came I almost fainted with terror.

You may know terror yourself some day. No! don't think of that. Look
at the matter purely from the scientific point of view. You don't
inquire where the dead things on which you experiment come from. Don't
inquire now. I have told you too much as it is.

But I beg of you to do this. We were friends once, Alan."
"Don't speak about those days, Dorian: they are dead."
"The dead linger sometimes. The man upstairs will not go away. He is
sitting at the table with bowed head and outstretched arms. Alan!
Alan!
if you don't come to my assistance I am ruined. Why, they will hang
me, Alan! Don't you understand? They will hang me for what I have
done."

"There is no good in prolonging this scene. I absolutely refuse to do
anything in the matter. It is insane of you to ask me."
"You refuse?"
"Yes."
"I entreat you, Alan."
"It is useless."

The same look of pity came into Dorian Gray's eyes. Then he stretched
out his hand, took a piece of paper, and wrote something on it. He
read it over twice, folded it carefully, and pushed it across the
table.
Having done this, he got up, and went over to the window.

Campbell looked at him in surprise, and then took up the paper, and
opened it. As he read it, his face became ghastly pale, and he
fell back in his chair. A horrible sense of sickness came over him.
He felt as if his heart was beating itself to death in some empty
hollow.

After two or three minutes of terrible silence, Dorian turned round,
and came and stood behind him, putting his hand upon his shoulder.

"I am so sorry for you, Alan," he murmured, "but you leave me no
alternative. I have a letter written already. Here it is. You see the
address. If you don't help me, I must send it. If you don't help me, I
will send it. You know what the result will be. But you are
going to help me. It is impossible for you to refuse now.

I tried to spare you.
You will do me the justice to admit that. You were stern, harsh, offensive.
You treated me as no man has ever dared to treat me--no living man,
at any rate. I bore it all. Now it is for me to dictate terms."
Campbell buried his face in his hands, and a shudder passed through
him.

"Yes, it is my turn to dictate terms, Alan.

You know what they are. The thing is quite simple. Come, don't work
yourself into this fever. The thing has to be done.

Face it, and do it."
A groan broke from Campbell's lips, and he shivered all over.

The ticking of the clock on the mantelpiece seemed to him to be
dividing Time into separate atoms of agony, each of which was too
terrible to be borne.

He felt as if an iron ring was being slowly tightened round his
forehead, as if the disgrace with which he was threatened had already
come upon him. The hand upon his shoulder weighed like a hand of
lead.
It was intolerable. It seemed to crush him.

"Come, Alan, you must decide at once."

"I cannot do it," he said, mechanically, as though words could alter
things.

"You must. You have no choice. Don't delay."
He hesitated a moment. "Is there a fire in the room upstairs?"

"Yes, there is a gas-fire with asbestos."
"I shall have to go home and get some things from the laboratory."

"No, Alan, you must not leave the house. Write out on a sheet of
note-paper what you want, and my servant will take a cab and bring
the things back to you."

Campbell scrawled a few lines, blotted them, and addressed an
envelope to his assistant.

Dorian took the note up and read it carefully. Then he rang the bell,
and gave it to his valet, with orders to return as soon as possible,
and to bring the things with him.

As the hall door shut, Campbell started nervously, and, having got
up from the chair, went over to the chimney-piece. He was shivering
with a kind of ague.

For nearly twenty minutes, neither of the men spoke. A fly buzzed
noisily about the room, and the ticking of the clock was like the beat
of a hammer.

As the chime struck one, Campbell turned round, and, looking at
Dorian Gray, saw that his eyes were filled with tears. There was
something in the purity and refinement of that sad face that seemed
to enrage him.

"You are infamous, absolutely infamous!" he muttered.

"Hush, Alan: you have saved my life," said Dorian.

"Your life? Good heavens! what a life that is! You have gone from
corruption to corruption, and now you have culminated in crime. In doing
what I am going to do, what you force me to do, it is not of your
life that I am thinking."
"Ah, Alan," murmured Dorian, with a sigh, "I wish you had a thousandth
part of the pity for me that I have for you."

He turned away as he spoke, and stood looking out at the garden. Campbell
made no answer.

After about ten minutes a knock came to the door, and the servant
entered, carrying a large mahogany chest of chemicals, with a long
coil of steel and platinum wire and two rather curiously-shaped
iron clamps.

"Shall I leave the things here, sir?" he asked Campbell.

"Yes," said Dorian. "And I am afraid, Francis, that I have another
errand for you. What is the name of the man at Richmond who
supplies Selby with orchids?"
"Harden, sir."
"Yes--Harden. You must go down to Richmond at once, see Harden personally,
and tell him to send twice as many orchids as I ordered, and to have
as few white ones as possible. In fact, I don't want any white ones.
It is a lovely day, Francis, and Richmond is a very pretty place,
otherwise I wouldn't bother you about it."

"No trouble, sir. At what time shall I be back?"
Dorian looked at Campbell. "How long will your experiment take,
Alan?"

he said, in a calm, indifferent voice. The presence of a third person
in the room seemed to give him extraordinary courage.

Campbell frowned, and bit his lip. "It will take about five hours," he
answered.

"It will be time enough, then, if you are back at half-past seven,
Francis. Or stay: just leave my things out for dressing. You can have
the evening to yourself. I am not dining at home, so I shall not want
you."
"Thank you, sir," said the man, leaving the room.

"Now, Alan, there is not a moment to be lost. How heavy this chest
is!
I'll take it for you. You bring the other things." He spoke rapidly,
and in an authoritative manner. Campbell felt dominated by him.
They left the room together.
When they reached the top landing, Dorian took out the key and
turned it in the lock. Then he stopped, and a troubled look came
into his eyes. He shuddered. "I don't think I can go in, Alan," he
murmured.
"It is nothing to me. I don't require you," said Campbell,
coldly.
Dorian half opened the door. As he did so, he saw the face of his
portrait leering in the sunlight. On the floor in front of it the
torn curtain was lying. He remembered that, the night before he had
forgotten, for the first time in his life, to hide the fatal canvas,
and was about to rush forward, when he drew back with a shudder.
What was that loathsome red dew that gleamed, wet and glistening,
on one of the hands, as though the canvas had sweated blood? How
horrible it was!--more horrible, it seemed to him for the moment,
than the silent thing that he knew was stretched across the table,
the thing whose grotesque misshapen shadow on the spotted carpet
showed him that it had not stirred, but was still there, as he had
left it.
He heaved a deep breath, opened the door a little wider, and with
half-closed eyes and averted head walked quickly in, determined
that he would not look even once upon the dead man. Then, stooping
down, and taking up the gold and purple hanging, he flung it right
over the picture.
There he stopped, feeling afraid to turn round, and his eyes fixed
themselves on the intricacies of the pattern before him. He heard
Campbell bringing in the heavy chest, and the irons, and the other
things that he had required for his dreadful work. He began to
wonder if he and Basil Hallward had ever met, and, if so, what they
had thought of each other.
"Leave me now," said a stern voice behind him.
He turned and hurried out, just conscious that the dead man had
been thrust back into the chair, and that Campbell was gazing into
a glistening yellow face. As he was going downstairs he heard the
key being turned in the lock.
It was long after seven when Campbell came back into the library.
He was pale, but absolutely calm. "I have done what you asked me
to do," he muttered. "And now, good-bye. Let us never see each other
again."
"You have saved me from ruin, Alan. I cannot forget that," said
Dorian, simply.

As soon as Campbell had left, he went upstairs."Yes," and he spoke almost with the fervour of an inspired prophet;
"Germany may know her alphabet of war from end to end, forward and
backward, but she does not know that she and it are doomed to
destruction, because she thinks that she can drive the intelligent
modern world with a spear, as her forefathers did the wild beasts of
the Black Forest."

Von Hemelstein started and laid his hand indignantly to the hilt of
his sword. His instructions to bring Edestone safely to Berlin alone
prevented him from punishing then and there such insult to his country
and his Emperor.

"My orders prevent me from killing you!" he said hoarsely, as he
straightened up and, drawing his heels together with a click, turned
and stalked away.

He took a seat at the other side of the car, and as if utterly
oblivious that such a creature as Edestone existed, produced and
deliberately adjusted the two parts of a very long and handsome
cigarette holder, and with much straining of his very tight uniform
restored the case to the place provided by law for its concealment on
his glittering person. He then took out his cigarette case, and after
selecting a cigarette, he gently tapped it on the gold cover, glaring
all the time quite through and beyond the unspeakable American. With
more absurd contortions the cigarette case was disposed of, and
matches produced. Then, stretching out his beautiful patent-leather
boots, he finally lighted his cigarette.

He took a deep inhalation, and blew from the very bottom of his lungs
a thin cloud of smoke in Edestone's direction, while with much
rattling he unfolded a newspaper, and pretended to read it.

Edestone, who was with difficulty keeping a straight face, sat all
this time solemnly watching him with the expression of a schoolgirl
looking at her matinee idol at about the juncture in the last act when
that hero puts on his kingly robes which have been hidden for a
hundred years in the moth closet of his twenty-story apartment house
on upper Riverside Drive.

When the Count finally peeped cautiously over the top of his paper to
see what effect he was producing, he felt almost tempted to applaud
and blow him a kiss.

"Count von Hemelstein," he said lazily, when finally the Prussian had
put down his paper, and was sitting glaring in front of him, "I was
just thinking what a stunning book-cover you would make for a cheap
novel, or how many thousands of bottles of beer your picture would
sell in Hoboken. Hoboken, you know, is the headquarters of the
German-American standing army, and your second largest naval base. Or
you might serve as----"

He halted in some anxiety, for it seemed as if the Count were about to
choke to death.


CHAPTER XIX

THE GERMAN POINT OF VIEW


They sat this way for some time, Edestone looking thoughtfully out of
the car window and rather disgusted with himself for having lessened
his dignity in the eyes of the other man.

He was broad enough to be able to put himself in von Hemelstein's
place. He knew that by birth, education, and example the man's attitude
to him, in fact to the rest of the world, was that of a superior being
looking down upon those immeasurably beneath him. For him, a Prussian
nobleman, to be spoken to in this way by one of a lower sphere was bad
enough, but when that one was of the very lowest of spheres, an
American, it was acute pain. He looked upon Edestone as a low comedian
rather than as a gentleman in the hands of a chivalrous enemy, which
the officer considered himself to be.

Edestone himself felt no resentment but the sort of pity that he would
feel for one who was born with an hereditary weakness that he could no
more control than the colour of his eyes. He was as sorry as he would
have been, had he been guilty of laughing at the irregularity of
another man's teeth which were not so perfect as his own.

He got up and walked slowly over toward his travelling companion. The
handsome warrior quickly let his hand fall to his loaded automatic as
if he expected to be attacked, but when he saw Edestone standing
quietly before him, and with a rather sad smile on his face, he turned
back to his reading and refused to look up, even after Edestone had
begun to speak.

"I am sorry, Count von Hemelstein," said the inventor, "to have
offended you, and I beg that you will accept my most humble apology. We
Americans, I fear, are too much inclined to let our sense of humour run
away with us."

The soldier raised his eyes with a threatening look, not knowing but
that Edestone was still poking fun at him, or else, fearing the
consequences of his rashness, was trying to ingratiate himself with his
jailer. But after that glance at Edestone's face he felt confident that
his apology was sincere. The Prussian's pride was too deeply wounded,
however, for him to give in at once.

"I am glad, Mr. Edestone," he replied stiffly, "that you realize that
it is not customary to speak lightly of Germany in the presence of one
of her officers."

"I know," exclaimed Edestone, "it was extremely bad taste for me to
criticize a civilization so much older than my own, but you will," he
smiled, "forgive the cowboy I am sure when he tells you he is sorry."
Then seeing by the expression of the officer's face that he had won the
day: "Come now, Count von Hemelstein, let's be friends. I would not
have liked you had you not resented my remarks, and I was a cad to take
advantage of your absolutely defenceless position."

The Count broke out into a hearty laugh, and jumping up took Edestone's
extended hand.

"You Americans," he vowed, all traces of his ill-feeling gone, "are the
most remarkable chaps. I never saw a cowboy, but if they are anything
like you they must be descended from some branch of the Hohenzollern
family."

"No, I cannot claim that distinction," laughed Edestone; "but I think
perhaps there are many cowboys who if they knew and knowing cared to
could boast of as distinguished a lineage. Did you ever breed dogs,
Count? Well, if you have, you would know that the good points of the
champion do not always appear in the oldest son of the oldest son, but
spring up where we least expect to find them. And so it is I think with
men; the good points are in the blood and will appear long after the
man has lost his family tree. Sometimes they appear in individuals who
show so strongly the traits of the champion that they scorn the
existence of musty documents to tell them who they are."

"Then, Mr. Edestone, you do not believe in our method of keeping our
best blood where it belongs--at the top?"

"Yes, I do most thoroughly approve of some of your methods. They are
perhaps the best that have yet been devised, but you have not yet found
the true method of following the centre of the stream. You sometimes
dip from an eddy, simply because you believe that at some time it might
have been in the middle, and you allow the deep dark red torrent to
carry its saturated solution by you."

"Well, Mr. Edestone," the Count smiled, "whether you are descended from
a cowboy king or a business baron, you are deuced good company. I am
glad that if I am to be cooped up here for two days it is with you
instead of some conceited English duke, whose English grandfather was a
fool and whose American grandfather was a knave--oh, I beg pardon. I am
like poor little Alice in Wonderland when she was talking with the
mouse. I seem always to insist upon talking about cats."

Edestone laughed.

"And now, Mr. Edestone, that you have been such a brick and apologized
to me, I shall have to admit that I was rather rude in what I said to
you. I think that the German Government has every intention of treating
you fairly, and if you will only listen to reason, you will find that
they are as anxious to bring this war to a close as is the United
States. I know, however, that Germany intends to have her fair share of
the earth; we are righting for our national existence, and we will not,
and in fact we cannot afford to, stop at anything. If you really do not
intend to sell your invention to any of the countries of Europe, you
can at least use your influence with the United States to keep out of
this muss, and let us settle our little difficulties in our own way."

Edestone became serious. "My sole object, Count von Hemelstein," he
said, "is to stop this war and settle these 'little difficulties,' as
you call them, without further loss of life. If your Government will
allow me to take back to England some assurance that it is now willing
to discuss a settlement, I know that my Government will keep out of the
discussion."

The conversation was interrupted at this point by the stopping of the
train at a station where the Count said he expected to take on the
lunch baskets. With a comfortable lunch between them, and a bottle of
wine to divide, they soon forgot their differences and laughed and
joked like old friends.

"It is a great pity, Mr. Edestone," said the Uhlan, "that you are not a
German. I am sure the Kaiser would like you. He might even make you a
Count, and then you could marry some woman of rank and with all your
money you could be one of the greatest swells in Europe. He might make
you an officer, too, so that you could wear a uniform and carry the
decorations which he would confer upon you. Then when Americans came
over to Kiel in their big yachts, you could tell the Emperor which were
the real cowboy families and which were the Knickerbocker noblemen."

"Well, that is exactly what I was thinking about you, Count von
Hemelstein," Edestone chuckled. "If you would only come over to America
I would get you a nice position in one of our large department stores,
where your knowledge of German would be of the greatest assistance to
you and soon put you at the top. Your German-Jew boss would invite you
to his palace at Long Branch to dinner some night before a holiday and
you would meet his beautiful daughter. She would take you into the big
parlour, which would be open that night, and say to all her friends: 'I
want you to shake hands with Count von Hemelstein, who is head salesman
in Pa's M. & D. Department.' And she would be corrected by Ma, who
would say: 'No, dearie, you mean the M. & W. Department.'

"With your military training you would, by this time, have undoubtedly
become a second lieutenant in one of our exclusive National Guard
regiments, and after marrying 'Dearie,' you would come over to Germany
and visit me at one of my castles on the Rhine. I would now have
gambled away my entire fortune, and my son, the Baron von Edestone,
would marry 'Dearie's' daughter."

So they passed the time with good-humoured chaffing, carefully avoiding
more serious subjects, and when they reached Berlin they had become
fast friends.

But as the train pulled into the German capital the Count leaned forward
a trifle persuasively. "Now, Mr. Edestone," he said, "we have had a
deuced good time together, and to tell the truth I am sorry to turn you
over because I do not believe these old fellows on the General Staff will
understand you as I do, but don't be an ass, I beg of you, and stand up
against these wise old chaps. Do what they want you to do--they know
better than you how to handle this complicated European situation. You
will get no thanks for your trouble if you do not, and you may get your
fingers rapped or even pretty severely pinched. My orders are to see you
to some comfortable hotel, any that you may select. I would suggest the
Hotel Adlon as perhaps the most comfortable.

"After that I am to take you to call on General von Lichtenstein, who
will hear what you have to say, and if in his judgment you should go
higher he will pass you on."

"I am to see nothing more of you?" asked Edestone.

"My duty finishes when General von Lichtenstein takes you up. You will,
of course, be watched and your every movement will be recorded, but
that will not be my duty, nor here in Berlin will you be at all annoyed
by it. Now that you are in Germany, you will be looked upon as a friend
and treated accordingly, unless you are found not to be. I have given
you my card, and I will take great pleasure in introducing you at the
clubs or helping you in any way so long as it is consistent with my
duty."

"You are extremely kind, and I appreciate it very much, Count von
Hemelstein."

"Now above all things," warned the Count, and his tone was very
impressive, "if by any chance you should be ordered to appear before
His Imperial Majesty, please be careful what you say. You have said
things to me in the last two days which, understanding you as I do, I
could overlook, but I would no more think of repeating them while you
are in Germany than I would think of flying. They were not of a nature
that would make it my duty to report them, but they might get you into
no end of trouble. For instance, you would not be so foolish as to
intimate that the Hohenzollern family is not in the middle of the 'big
stream.'" He smiled in spite of himself.

Then as the train rolled into the station he took Edestone's hand and
said: "_Auf wiedersehen_, my friend. I must now assume my other role of
your escort of honour. Speak German," he suggested quickly as the
guards came into the car; "you will be less apt to be annoyed."

Edestone was conducted hastily through the station, where automobiles
waited to whisk him and his entire party off to the hotel. At his
request, the trunks containing all his apparatus were sent to the
American Embassy. He was not as familiar with Berlin as he was with the
other capitals of Europe, but if he had not known that Germany was
engaged in a most desperate war, and millions of her sons were being
sacrificed, there was nothing that he saw as he rushed through the city
that would have suggested it.

He was received at the hotel with extreme politeness, but it was the
politeness that was insulting. The proprietor, waiters, and even the
bell-boys treated him with poorly concealed contempt, and though he
spoke to them in perfect German, would always answer in English, as if
to show him that they knew he was of that despised race.

Count von Hemelstein left him with the understanding that he would call
for him in the morning and conduct him to General von Lichtenstein.


CHAPTER XX

GENERAL VON LICHTENSTEIN


That afternoon, Edestone took occasion to call at the American Embassy,
where he found that Ambassador Gerard, broken down by the strain of the
first few months of the war, during which he had accomplished such
wonderful work, had been forced to go to Wiesbaden for a rest.

The Ambassador had left in charge Mr. William Jones, First Secretary of
Legation, who with his wife was occupying the Embassy and representing
the United States. The doctors had warned the Secretary that the
Ambassador's condition was such that he must have absolute quiet, and
that he should under no circumstances be troubled or even communicated
with in regard to affairs of state. Jones was, therefore, to all
intents and purposes the Ambassador.

This suited Edestone's plans perfectly, for Jones was only a few years
older than himself and he had known him intimately since boyhood.

His friend received him with almost the delight of a man who has been
marooned on a desert island and was pining for the sight of a friendly
face.

"Well, well, Jack," he said, "what foolish thing is this that you are
up to now? We have received the most extraordinary instructions from
the State Department--I gather that the Secretary of State has either
lost his mind or that you have got him under a spell, and then with
your hypnotic power have suggested that he order us to do things which
we could not do in peace times and which are simply out of the question
now. Don't you people over home understand that these Germans, from the
Kaiser to the lowest peasant, are all in such an exalted state of
Anglophobia that they regard everyone with distrust, and are especially
suspicious of us. My advice to you, as Lawrence would say,"--referring
to one of his under-secretaries, a college mate and intimate friend of
Edestone's,--"is to 'can that high-brow stuff' and come down to earth."

"Now, speaking for myself as your friend, I advise you to go and see
General von Lichtenstein, whom you will find a delightful old gentleman
but as wise as Solomon's aunt. Talk to him like a sweet little boy, and
then come back to the Legation and stop with us while you see something
of the war. I can take you to within one hundred and fifty miles of the
firing line and show you the crack regiments of Germany looking as
happy and sleek as if they were merely out for one of the yearly
manoeuvres. I would have difficulty, though, in showing you any of the
wounded, as they are very careful to see that we are not offended by
any of the horrors that one reads of in the American papers."

"Berlin is being forced to fiddle, eh, while Germany is burning?"

"Yes, she suggests the hysterical condition of Paris just before the
Reign of Terror, while I, like Benjamin Franklin, in 'undertaker's
clothes' in the midst of barbaric splendour, wait for the inevitable."

"Is your face, like his, 'as well known as that of the moon'?" asked
Edestone.

"Yes, but a thing to be insulted, not like his to be painted on the
lids of snuff-boxes, as souvenirs for kings.

"Or if that does not amuse you, Mrs. Jones can introduce you to some of
the prettiest girls you ever saw."

"Big, strong, fat, and healthy, I suppose, with red faces looking as if
they had just been washed with soap and water."

"Well, then we might have some golf, and if you will give me half a
stroke, I will play you $5 a hole and $50 on the game. Or if that is
too rich for your blood, I will play you dollar Nassau. In fact, Jack,
I will do anything to get this foolish idea out of your head. These
people can't see a joke at any time, but to try one now might put you
into a very serious if not dangerous position. Now you go along and see
Lawrence, as I have to look after some American refugees who are
waiting in the outer office. You will dine with us tonight, of course."

Lawrence Stuyvesant, to whom the Secretary had referred, appeared at
the door at that moment and beckoned to Edestone. He was one of those
irrepressible Americans, born with an absolute lack of respect for
anything that suggested convention, at home in any company and showing
absolutely no preference. He would be found joking with the stokers in
the engine room when he might be walking with the Admiral on the
quarter-deck, flirting with a deaf old Duchess when he might be supping
with the leader of the ballet. With a sense of humour that would have
made his fortune on the stage, he spoke half-a-dozen languages and a
dozen dialects. He could imitate the Kaiser or give a Yiddish dialect
to a Chinaman. Light-hearted to a fault, he would make a joke at
anyone's expense, preferably his own. An entertaining chap, but a
rolling stone that could roll up hill or skip lightly over the surface
of a placid lake with equal facility. He had already run through two
considerable fortunes, and had been almost everything from a camel
driver to a yacht's captain. Now he imagined himself to be a diplomat.

"Behold the dreamer cometh," he said in Yiddish dialect as Edestone
approached, and grasping the inventor by both hands, dragged him into
the other room, and began to ask questions so fast that a Chicago
reporter, had he heard, would have died of sheer mortification.

After he had gotten all the information that he could pump, pull, and
squeeze out of Edestone, he shook his head discouragingly.

"I am darn glad to see you, old chap," he said, "but I am sorry to hear
that you have come over to try and reason with this bunch of nuts.
Don't you know they are so damn conceited that if you were to tell them
that every time you look at a German you see two men, they would
believe you; and then as if they hated to lie to themselves, they would
say perhaps it was an optical illusion. Tell them that God did not
create anyone but the Germans and that he left the rest of the world to
the students in his office, and they will give you a smile of assent."
Edestone smiled indulgently. "Tell them that when the Kaiser frowns
every wheel in the United States stops and refuses to move until
reassured by the German papers that it is but the frown of an indulgent
father and not the thunder of their future War Lord, and they will give
a knowing look. Tell them that only German is taught in our public
schools, and that any child who does not double-cross himself at the
mention of the name of any of the North German Lloyd steamers is taken
out and shot, and they will say, 'Ach so?'

"But just you pull something about what a hit Brother Henry made in the
United States, especially with the navy, and what a swell chance he
would have of being elected Admiral when Dewey resigns, then look out!
Get under your umbrella and sit perfectly still until the storm passes.
Keep well down in the trenches and don't expose anything that you do
not want sent to the cleaners. For when one of these Dutchmen begins to
splutter, there is nothing short of the U-29 that can stand the tidal
wave of beer and sauerkraut which has been lying in wait for some
unsuspecting neutral in their flabby jowls like nuts in a squirrel's
cheek. They back-fire, skip, short-circuit, and finally blow up, and if
you don't throw on a bucket or two of flattery quick, you've got a duel
on your hands, which for an American in this country means that you get
it going and coming."

Edestone, knowing Lawrence well, took what he said largely as a joke;
but from his own observations and from what Jones had told him he felt
convinced that there did not exist the kindest feeling for Americans in
Berlin. Brushing all this aside, he turned to Lawrence with a
businesslike air:

"Where are the trunks that I sent to the Embassy?" he asked. "Have they
got here yet?"

"Down in the basement," Lawrence nodded.

"I'd like to get something out of them."

"Well, why look at me?" inquired Lawrence. "I'm no baggage smasher."

"It's a pity you're not," rejoined Edestone. "You would be better at
that than you are at diplomacy. However, all I want is for you to have
someone show me where they are."

"Fred, show the King of America where his royal impedimenta await his
royal pleasure," Lawrence directed a young man with the manners of a
Bowery boy, who appeared in answer to his summons.

With him Edestone went down to the trunks and took from one of them a
small receiving instrument with a dial attachment similar to the one on
top of the Deionizer, which he had dropped into the Channel. Then after
a few words with his other friends in the Embassy, he went back to the
hotel.

The next morning Count von Hemelstein called, and it was quite like
meeting an old friend. Edestone was really sorry when, the Count
leaving him at the door of General Headquarters said: "This is where I
turn you over to my superiors. These are times that try men's souls,
and you are now dealing with men who must win."

They had arrived on the stroke of the hour, and Edestone was quickly
taken in charge and shown without a moment's delay into the presence of
General von Lichtenstein. The General was a man whose age was
impossible to tell. He was over sixty, but how much over one found it
hard to estimate. He was erect and rather thin, and he wore his uniform
with the care of a much younger man. The lines about his mouth and
chin, which are such a sure index, were hidden by a full beard, white
as snow and rather long. His high forehead was half covered by a huge
shock of hair, also perfectly white, which was parted neatly on the
side. His steel-blue eyes, looking out through a pair of gold-rimmed
spectacles, were bright, but were set so far back under his heavy brows
that they looked very old, very wise, and almost mysterious.

When Edestone was brought into the room without any form of
introduction, the General rose and greeted him in the most kind and
fatherly manner.

"Good-morning, Mr. Edestone," he said in English with a marked accent.
"I am very glad to see you," and, putting out his hand with an air of
simple kindness as if to lead him to a chair, he said: "Won't you sit
down, sir?

"You must not mind if I treat you like a boy," he went on with a gentle
smile; "you are about the age of my own son who was killed at Ypres. I
am too old to fight any more, so they keep me here to entertain
distinguished strangers like yourself," and he laughed quietly to
himself, looking at Edestone as he might at a little boy whom he had
just told that he had on a very pretty suit of clothes.

He picked up from his desk, a box of very large cigars, selected two,
and, after looking very carefully at one to see that it was absolutely
perfect, handed it without a word to Edestone. After he had watched
with great interest to see that Edestone had lighted his cigar
properly, he lighted his own.

"I see by the way you smoke that you are a good judge of tobacco. I
have always understood that you Americans like very fresh cigars and
smoke them immediately after they are made. I like them old myself."

"You are thinking of Cuba, perhaps," suggested Edestone.

"Oh, that is true," admitted the old gentleman. "The Americans live in
the United States and you do not allow the other inhabitants of the
hemisphere to the north or to the south of you to use that name. You
are perfectly right; you are--what do you call it?--the boss," and
again he smiled his gentle smile.

"I get all my cigars from England," he continued. "The English and I
have very similar tastes--in cigars. I have a very old friend,
Professor Weibezhal, who lives in England, and he sends them over to
me. I just received these a few days ago. He is not having a very good
time over there now, he writes me. He can't get what he wants to eat,
and he says he misses his German beer."

Edestone could scarcely realize that he was sitting in General
Headquarters, the very heart of German militarism, talking to General
von Lichtenstein, the most powerful and astute man in all Europe. But
for the German accent and magnificent uniform it might have been in the
Union Club in New York, and he himself talking to a very nice, rather
simple-minded old gentleman, who was flattered by the attention of a
younger man.

After the General had inquired about a friend of his who lived in
America--he said he did not know exactly where, not in New York, but
some town near there, Cincinnati or perhaps St. Louis. This struck
Edestone as strange when he thought of the springs on his father's old
place which were marked on a German map that he had seen, although he
himself did not know of their existence, and he had spent his entire
childhood roaming all over it.

Finally, when he had told him one or two stories about an American
woman whom he had been quite fond of when he was a young man, the
General said in a most apologetic manner:

"Now I must not keep you. I suppose you would like to go out with some
of the younger officers and see something of this war, now that you are
over here. Or, by the way, it was about some discovery or invention you
have made that you called to see me, was it not? What is this
invention, tell me, and exactly what is it that you want the German
Government to do? If you will explain to me and I can understand, I
will be glad to help you in any way I can. Of course you know that I am
a very small part of the German Empire. I am, however, in a position to
bring your wishes to those who are above me and are all-powerful."

Then, while Edestone explained to him everything in regard to his
mission except the actual construction of the Deionizer, the old
General sat quietly smoking, smiling occasionally and listening with
the attention that a man might show who was being told of an
improvement in some machine in which he had no personal interest but
was glad to be enlightened, although up to that time the matter had
been something he had never thought much about.

He would now and then say, "How very interesting!" "Can that be
possible?" "Is that so?" Not even when Edestone described the pictures
shown to the King of England did he manifest any feeling except that of
kindly interest in a most charming young man, who was taking a great
deal of trouble to explain his youthful hopes to a rather slow-thinking
old one.

He allowed Edestone to talk on, not even interrupting him, to ask a
single question, and when the visitor had finished by expressing the
hope that he might be instrumental in bringing the war to a close,
General von Lichtenstein replied with apparent sincerity:

"I really see no reason why you should not. You are a brilliant
inventor, apparently a hard worker, and above all you seem willing to
give your talents to the world for the benefit of your fellow-men. The
only thing that you lack is age and experience. I am not an inventor, I
cannot work hard any more, and I am not known as a philanthropist, but
I have age and I have experience, so I think that you and I might make
a good combination. Leave this to me, and I think I can show you how
all that you wish to accomplish can be accomplished, if not exactly in
your way, in a way which I think you will agree with me is a better
way. Whereas I should not dare to speak for His Imperial Majesty, the
Kaiser, I believe I am perfectly safe in saying that he will see you
and inspect your photographs, drawings, and anything else that you may
wish to show him. I will see him and let you know when and where."

He laid his hand on Edestone's shoulder and walked with him as far as
the door.

"You are a fine young fellow," he said with a hearty grasp of the hand
as he bade him goodbye, "and all you want is an old head on your broad
young shoulders. Let the old man help you, and everything will be all
right."

When Edestone was on the outside and thought over all that the General
had said, he would have been delighted with the turn things had taken
had he not been warned by Jones and did he not recall what Count von
Hemelstein had said.

Being so straightforward himself, he could not understand deceit in
others, and when he recalled the almost inspired expression on the kind
old gentleman's face when he spoke of his son so recently killed in
battle, he could not bring himself to believe that this was the trained
diplomat of iron who covered with that gentle exterior a determination
to crush and kill anything that came between him and the accomplishment
of the great purpose, the great cause to which he had gladly sacrificed
his first-born and the heir to his name and title.

It was nearly noon, Greenwich time, now, so Edestone hurried back to
his hotel to receive from "Specs" the daily signal: "Awaiting orders.
All is well."

With the forethought of a good general he wished to be prepared for any
emergency, and when the needle of the receiver, which he had taken from
the trunk at the Embassy, recorded the reassuring message, Edestone
thoroughly satisfied with the work of the morning returned to the
Embassy to keep his appointment with Lawrence.


CHAPTER XXI

HE INSTALLS HIS WIRELESS


Lawrence was on the lookout for him when he arrived at the Embassy, and
conducted him at once to his own private quarters, where they could be
absolutely alone.

"Now, Lawrence," said Edestone, when they had made themselves
comfortable, "I want your assistance. Are you game?"

"Well I ask you, you old simp! Did you not initiate me, in my freshman
year, in the Ki Ki Ki, and do you think that I have forgotten the oath
that I took while sitting with my naked back within a foot of a red-hot
stove, my fingers in a bucket of red ink, and you branding me with a
lump of ice?" He went through with some ridiculous gesticulations to
prove the honours that had been bestowed upon him.

"I know, old man, but this is no college boy performance. Before you
commit yourself I want you to understand that you are running great
danger. Besides, I don't think that the Acting Ambassador would exactly
approve, as it might involve the United States. Desperate situations,
though, have to be met sometimes with desperate measures."

"Yours is a noble heart, Lord Reginald Bolingbroke, and the child is
safe in the hands of Jack Hathaway, the Boy Scout. Go on, I listen.
Your story interests me strangely," said Lawrence.

Edestone paid no attention to this, but went on in the same manner: "I
can assure you that, except as a last resort, you will not be called on
to do anything that will be an actual violation of our neutrality, and
not even then until I have obtained the permission of the Secretary of
the Embassy. But from now on, Lawrence, you will be looked upon with
great suspicion, and you may have trouble explaining yourself out of a
German prison, if not from in front of a firing squad." He eyed the
younger man keenly as if questioning whether or not he could rely upon
him, and upon seeing this, Lawrence altered his light tone and for once
spoke soberly.

"Jack Edestone, you know perfectly well that you can depend upon me,
while I know that you will not do anything that is not strictly on the
level, so what's the use of saying anything more. I'm with you. What is
it you want?"

"Well, take me up on the roof," said Edestone.

"Say, Bo, is that all?"

"Now be quiet, Lawrence; do what you are told. You will get a good run
for your money, so for Heaven's sake do be serious."

The roof, which was reached by elevator, was flat, covered with cement,
and but for the chimneys, a few skylights, and the penthouse over the
elevator shaft, was unencumbered.

Edestone first went over and examined this penthouse with great care.
He found as he expected a small free space over the machinery which was
entirely hidden from view and could be reached only from the roof of
the car when it was run to the top of the elevator shaft, and then by
climbing over the big drum around which the cable ran. It was perfectly
dark inside and one could remain there for days without being
discovered.

After thoroughly inspecting this, the inventor went over and examined
the tall flag-pole, first saluting the stars and stripes which were
waving from it. Finally, appearing satisfied, he led Lawrence to the
edge of the roof and stood for a moment looking over the coping wall at
the city below. He seemed to be establishing his bearings, but seeing
one of the soldiers who was stationed in the street near the Embassy,
he stepped back quickly.

"Come below," he drew Lawrence back. "We must not be seen."

Lawrence, who by this time was satisfied that there was going to be
some real excitement, led the way back to his apartments.

"Little did I think," said Edestone with a smile when they were once
more settled, "when I used to chase you out of the wireless room on
board the _Storm Queen_, Lawrence, that I would some day make use of
the information which you got there, and which cost me a new instrument
and one of the best operators I ever had, but that is the reason I am
calling on you now."

"Good," cried Lawrence. "I am the best little sparker that ever sent an
S. O. S. over the blue between drinks of salt water, while swimming on
my back around the wireless room chased by a man-eating shark. And as
for a catcher, why, my boy, I can receive while eating a piece of
toast."

"All right," said Edestone with a laugh; "as your references from your
last place are so good you shall have the job. You took charge of my
trunks, did you not?"

"Yes," replied Lawrence.

"Well, in the one marked 'Black,' there is a small wireless instrument.
The Germans know that I have it, and I realize that they let it get
through in the hope of picking up any messages I may send out. They do
not know, however, that I intend to send but two, and these will be
both of but one word each. If they can make head or tail of these, they
are welcome. Still, on Jones's account, I want them not to know that I
am sending from here, nor do I care to have Jones know that this
instrument is in the Embassy. I want you to install it in the penthouse
above the drum, and I will assure you that if I ask you to send out my
two messages, it will not be until after Jones has given his consent.
Do you think that you can do this?"

Lawrence pondered for some moments. "Of course I can send the messages,
and I can install the instrument too, but how to do it without letting
the Secretary know or keeping the damn German servants from catching on
I don't quite see."

"I have thought of all that. The elevator is an electric one and any
person can run it by pushing the button. All you have to do then is to
unpack the wireless instrument here in your room, and after you have
adjusted it you can certainly arrange in some way to get it on top of
the elevator car?"

"Yes," Lawrence nodded.

"Now my Mr. Black, who is at the hotel, is one of the best electricians
in America. He can install the instrument easily, and I will tell you
how. In the other trunk I sent up is a moving-picture machine----"

"Oh, I say, come now!" said Lawrence. "I suppose you are going to tell
me next that you've got a setting hen in another trunk and that you are
going to bribe Fritz and Karl with fresh eggs. And that's no merry
jest; we haven't seen a fresh egg in Berlin in six months."

"No, Lawrence, I'm not joking. I mean exactly what I say. I have a
moving-picture machine with me and lots of films, interesting ones too,
and I propose to give a show right here in the Embassy. I will ask the
Secretary to allow every servant in the house to come in and see it. I
can keep them quiet for an hour, and during that time you can get
Black, who will be acting as my helper, into the elevator shaft and run
him up to the top of the penthouse. You can depend upon him to do the
rest, and all you will have to do after that is to see that he gets
down before I turn up the lights, when your absence might be remarked.
Isn't that simple enough?"

"But how am I to get up there to send the messages when the time
comes?" asked Lawrence.

"I have not thought of that yet. You may not have to send any messages
at all, and if you do, it will not be for some little time, so perhaps
it's just as well that you can't get up there without my assistance."

Then with a jolly laugh, which showed that although he was pitting his
strength and wits against the great General Staff, the most wonderful
machine on earth, he was as light-hearted as a boy, he said:

"You might, as you did on the yacht, want to see the wheels go 'round,
or else you'd be sending messages off to a lot of girls.

"Now, make haste," he directed, "send for the trunk marked 'Black.'"

With the arrival of the trunk the machine was soon adjusted, and
Edestone having tested Lawrence's knowledge, and explained to him again
exactly what he was to do, gave him orally all that was necessary for
him to know about the code that was to be used.

A little later, when they rejoined Jones, the Acting Ambassador, he
wanted to know what they had been up to. "Has Lawrence been giving you
the telephone numbers of some of these prospective war brides," he
asked, "or does he want you to take tea with some Royal Princess? You
know, Jack, Lawrence seems to be quite a favourite in the very smart
army set. It appears that they have heard that his grandfather was the
military governor of New York. That makes him eligible. And besides, he
is teaching the entire royal family the latest American dances."

"Well, if you care to know what we have been up to," said Edestone,
"I don't mind telling you that we have been arranging for a little
moving-picture entertainment here at the Embassy. Have we your
permission to go ahead with it? It would be a little treat for
the people here in the house."

"Certainly," consented Jones. "Go as far as you like. I myself will be
glad to see something beside battles and dead men. But why in the name
of common sense have you lugged a moving-picture machine all the way
over from America when you might have brought us some potatoes? I
suppose, of course, it has something to do with your fool scheme. Well,
as long as it doesn't get us into trouble, and helps to take our minds
off this war, I haven't any objection. When do you propose to have your
show?"

"I can't exactly say as to that," Edestone answered. "It all depends
upon Lawrence, who is to be my trap-man. He had better fix the date."
He looked at the other conspirator with a questioning glance.

"We'll have it tonight then," said Lawrence. "I think I can get up my
part by that time." He made significant faces at Edestone behind the
Secretary's back.

"Tonight's the night, eh?" said Jones with a smile. "Very well, we'll
all be on hand."

Edestone, after his experiences on the frontier, and his two days'
journey shut up in the railroad car, greatly enjoyed these evenings
with his old friends, the Joneses; and found pleasure in meeting some
of Mrs. Jones's young friends, who were delighted when they heard of
the moving-picture show.

Later, while the Secretary of Legation and Edestone were alone,
Lawrence having insisted upon helping Black install the moving-picture
machine, Jones turned to his guest.

"I saw General von Lichtenstein at the club this afternoon," he said.
"He seemed to be delighted with you, Jack. Said you were a fine young
man, and will not believe that you are not of German descent. He hopes
to present you when the Emperor returns to Berlin, which he says will
be in a few days. When I told him that you had not told me what your
invention was he merely laughed. I know he did not believe me. He seems
to think that the United States has something to do with sending you
over here. He is a sly old fox and I tell you to look out for him."

He might have added more but Lawrence appeared just then and, imitating
a barker in a sideshow, announced that everything was ready for the
performance.

The entertainment proved a brilliant success. Edestone showed some
scenes from America which he had brought over to amuse the
distinguished audiences he had expected to meet in Europe. The pictures
showing him tossing great weights and men about the room delighted the
servants, but the Secretary only looked bored and Mrs. Jones did not
hesitate to say that she thought Edestone must be losing his mind,
travelling all around the world with such silly things.

But it answered his purposes. Lawrence soon came in and whispered to
him that Mr. Black and the wireless machine were safely up in the
penthouse, and if Edestone could hold his audience for a half-an-hour
longer the work would be finished.

Edestone then threw on the screen all the crowned heads of Europe,
taking tea, playing tennis, and laying corner-stones. He had some
especially fine pictures of the German Emperor. He was getting a little
nervous though as he found his supply of films running short, but at
that moment he spied Lawrence entering the door, who gave the signal
"All is well."

The Secretary, after the entertainment, pressed Edestone to tell him
something more about his invention, but Edestone shook his head.

"I am purposely keeping you out of this, William," he said, "for if I
get into trouble I don't want to drag you and the Missus in with me."

Then with the promise that he would move around to the Embassy in the
morning, he left for his hotel.


CHAPTER XXII

KAFFEE KLATSCH


Edestone had now been at the Embassy for about a week and was wondering
what would be the next move on the part of the German General Staff.

He knew that General von Lichtenstein was not waiting for the return of
the Emperor, for he was in Berlin. In fact he had seen him driving past
the Embassy in his big automobile with the General. Edestone was just
coming out, and although he was not certain, he thought that the
General had recognized him, for he leaned over and spoke to the
Emperor, who looked straight at the American.

He had heard nothing, but from what the different officers at the clubs
had dropped, he was confident that he had not been forgotten. These had
all received him with great show of cordiality, and among Count von
Hemelstein's friends there had sprung up a certain friendliness, which
he knew was due to the Count's influence. The Count himself, on the
other hand, seemed now to be a little bit ill at ease when in his
presence. He said to Edestone one night after he had been drinking
quite heavily:

"Mr. Edestone, it is a great pity that you have come over here and
mixed up in our troubles. It is too late now, however; you could not
get out if you tried," and then with a sneer, "not even if you called
to your assistance Princess Wilhelmina, who seems to take so much
interest in you."

Edestone decided that the German General Staff were preparing their
answer to the new condition that had been brought about by his
invention, and that they were waiting for additional information before
delivering it. He knew that they must realize that some action must be
taken, but with the forethought for which they were so celebrated they
were preparing the way. When they had satisfied themselves that they
were in possession of all of the facts that could be gotten without his
assistance, and had looked at these from every possible standpoint, he
would be sent for, and not until then.

Several days after his sight of the Emperor, Edestone, in passing
through the halls of the Embassy, was approached by one of the German
servants, who in a rather mysterious manner handed him a note, which
read as follows:

  "Dear Mr. LADY. Can't it be stopped by taking legal action? Is
  there no justice on earth?
  

                            MOTHER. Not on earth.

But there is in heaven. And heaven will drown us, for we're the children
of evildoers. (She goes up the steps.)
LADY. Isn't it enough to put up with one's own tears? Must one inherit
other people's?

(The STRANGER comes back.)
STRANGER. Did you call me?

LADY. No. I only tried to draw you to me, without really wanting
you.

STRANGER. I felt you meddling with my destiny in a way that made me
uneasy. Soon you'll have learnt all I know.

LADY. And more.

STRANGER. But I must ask you not to lay rough hands on my fate. I
am Cain, you see, and am under the ban of mysterious powers, who
permit no mortals to interfere with their work of vengeance.

You see this mark on my brow? (He removes his hat.) It means: Revenge
is mine, saith the Lord.

LADY. Does your hat press. ...

STRANGER. No. It chafes me. And so does the coat. If it weren't that I
wanted to please you, I'd have thrown them all into the river.

When I walk here in the neighbourhood, do you know that people call
me the doctor? They must take me for your husband, the werewolf. And
I'm unlucky. If I ask who planted some tree: they say, the doctor.
If I ask to whom the green fish basket belongs:
they say, the doctor. And if it isn't his then it belongs to the doctor's
wife. That is, to you! This confusion between him and me makes my
visit unbearable.

I'd like to go away. ...

LADY. Haven't you tried in vain to leave this place six times?

STRANGER. Yes. But the seventh, I'll succeed.

LADY. Then try!

STRANGER. You say that as if you were convinced I'd fail.

LADY. I am.

STRANGER.

Plague me in some other way, dear fury.

LADY. Well, I can.

STRANGER. A new way! Try to say something ill-natured that 'the other
one's' not said already.

LADY. Your first wife's 'the other one.' How tactful to remind me of
her.

STRANGER. Everything that lives and moves, everything that's
dead and cold, reminds me of what's gone. ...

LADY.

Until the being comes, who can wipe out the darkness of the
past and bring light.

STRANGER. You mean the child we're expecting!

LADY. Our child!

STRANGER. Do you love it?

LADY. I began to to-day.

STRANGER. To-day? Why, what's happened? Five months ago you wanted to
run off to the lawyers and divorce me; because I wouldn't take you
to a quack who'd kill your unborn child.

LADY. That was some time ago. Things have changed now.

STRANGER. Why now? (He looks round as if expecting something.) Now?
Has the post come?

LADY. You're still more cunning than I am. But the pupil will outstrip
the master.

STRANGER. Were there any letters for me?

LADY. No.

STRANGER. Then give me the wrapper?

LADY. What made you guess?

STRANGER. Give the wrapper, if your conscience can make such fine
distinctions between it and the letter.

LADY (picking up the letter-bag, which she has hidden behind the
seat). Look at this! (The STRANGER takes the photograph, looks at it
carefully, and puts it in his breast-pocket.) What was it?

STRANGER. The past.

LADY. Was it beautiful?

STRANGER. Yes. More beautiful than the future can ever be.

LADY (darkly). You shouldn't have said that.

STRANGER. No, I admit it. And I'm sorry. ...

LADY. Tell me, are you capable of suffering?

STRANGER. Now, I suffer twice; because I feel when you're suffering.
And if I wound you in self-defence, it's I who gets fever from the
wound.

LADY. That means you're at my mercy?

STRANGER. No.

Less now than ever, because you're protected by the innocent being you
carry beneath your heart.

LADY. He shall be my avenger.

STRANGER. Or mine!

LADY (tearfully). Poor little thing. Conceived in sin and shame, and
born to avenge by hate.

STRANGER.

It's a long time since I've heard you speak like that.

LADY. I dare say.

STRANGER. That was the voice that first drew me to you; it was like that
of a mother speaking to her child.

LADY. When you say 'mother' I feel I can only believe good of you;
but a moment after I say to myself: it's only one more of your
ways of deceiving me.

STRANGER. What ill have I ever really done you? (The LADY is uncertain
what to reply.) Answer me. What ill have I done you?

LADY. I don't know.

STRANGER. Then invent something. Say to me: I hate you, because I
can't deceive you.

LADY. Can't I? Oh, I'm sorry for you.

STRANGER.

You must have poison in the pocket of your dress.

LADY. Well, I have!

STRANGER. What can it be? (Pause.) Who's that coming down the road?

LADY. A harbinger.

STRANGER. Is it a man, or a spectre?

LADY.

A spectre from the past.

STRANGER. He's wearing a black coat and a laurel crown. But his feet
are bare.

LADY. It's Caesar.

STRANGER (confused). Caesar? That was my nickname at school.

LADY. Yes. But it's also the name of the madman whom my ... first
husband used to look after. Forgive me speaking of him like that.

STRANGER. Has this madman got away?

LADY.

It looks like it, doesn't it?

(CAESAR comes in from the back; he wears a black frock coat and is without
a collar; he has a laurel crown on his head and his feet are bare. His
general appearance is bizarre.)
CAESAR. Why don't you greet me? You ought to say: Ave, Caesar!

For now I'm the master. The werewolf, you must know, has gone out of his
mind since the Great Man went off with his wife, whom he himself
snatched from her first lover, or bridegroom, or whatever you call
him.

STRANGER (to the LADY). That was strychnine for two adults! (To CAESAR)
Where's your master now--or your slave, or doctor, or warder?

CAESAR. He'll be here soon. But you needn't be frightened of him.
He won't use daggers or poison. He only has to show himself, for all
living things to fly from him; for trees to drop their leaves, and
the very dust of the highway to run before him in a whirlwind like
the pillar of cloud before the Children of Israel. ...

STRANGER. Listen. ...

CAESAR. Quiet, whilst I'm speaking. ... Sometimes he believes himself to
be a werewolf, and says he'd like to eat a little child that's not
yet born, and that's really his according to the right of priority. ...
(He goes on his way.)
LADY (to the STRANGER).

Can you exorcise this demon?

STRANGER. I can do nothing against devils who brave the sunshine.

LADY. Yesterday you made an arrogant remark, and now you shall
have it back.

You said it wasn't fair for invisible ones to creep in by night and
strike in the darkness, they should come by day when the sun's shining.
Now they've come!

STRANGER. And that pleases you!

LADY. Yes. Almost.

STRANGER. What a pity it gives me no pleasure when it's you who's
struck! Let's sit down on the seat--the bench for the accused. For more
are coming.

LADY. I'd rather we went.

STRANGER. No, I want to see how much I can bear. You see, at every
stroke of the lash I feel as if a debit entry had been erased from
my ledger.

LADY. But I can stand no more. Look, there he comes himself.
Heavens! This man, whom I once thought I loved!

STRANGER. Thought? Yes, because everything's merely delusion. And that
means a great deal. You go! I'll take the duty on myself of confronting
him alone.

(The LADY goes up the steps, but does not reach the toy before the
DOCTOR becomes visible at the back of the stage.

The DOCTOR comes in, his grey hair long and unkempt. He is wearing a
tropical helmet and a hunting coat, which are exactly similar to the
clothes of the STRANGER.

He behaves as though he doesn't notice the STRANGER'S presence, and
sits down on a stone on the other side of the road, opposite the
STRANGER, who is sitting on the seat. He takes of his hat and
mops the sweat from his brow. The STRANGER grows impatient.) What do
you want?

DOCTOR. Only to see this house again, where my happiness once dwelt and
my roses blossomed. ...

STRANGER. An intelligent man of the world would have chosen a time
when the present inhabitants of the house were away for a short while;
even on his own account, so as not to make himself ridiculous.

DOCTOR. Ridiculous? I'd like to know which of us two's the more
ridiculous?

STRANGER. For the moment, I suppose I am.

DOCTOR.

Yes. But I don't think you know the whole extent of your
wretchedness.

STRANGER. What do you mean?

DOCTOR. That you want to possess what I used to possess.

STRANGER. Well, go on.

DOCTOR. Have you noticed that we're wearing similar clothes? Good!
Do you know the reason? It's this: you're wearing the things I forgot to
fetch when the catastrophe took place. No intelligent man of the world
at the end of the nineteenth century would ever put himself into
such a position.

STRANGER (throwing down his hat and coat). Curse the woman!

DOCTOR. You needn't complain.

Cast-off male attire has always been fatal ever since the celebrated
shirt of Nessus.

Go in now and change. I'll sit out here and watch, and listen, how you
settle the matter alone with that accursèd woman. Don't forget your
stick!

(The LADY, who is hurrying towards the house, trips in front of the
steps. The STRANGER stays where he is in embarrassment.) The
stick!

The stick!

STRANGER. I don't ask mercy for the woman's sake, but for the child's.

DOCTOR (wildly). So there's a child, too. Our house, our roses, our
clothes, the bed-clothes not forgotten, and now our child!

I'm within your doors, I sit at your table, I lie in your bed; I exist
in your blood; in your lungs, in your brain; I am everywhere and yet you
can't get hold of me.

When the pendulum strikes the hour of midnight, I'll blow cold, on your
heart, so that it stops like a clock that's run down. When you sit
at your work, I shall come with a poppy, invisible to you, that
will put your thoughts to sleep, and confuse your mind, so that
you'll see visions you can't distinguish from reality.

I shall lie like a stone in your path, so that you stumble; I shall
be the thorn that pricks your hand when you go to pluck the rose.

My soul shall spin itself about you like a spider's web;
and I shall guide you like an ox by means of the woman you stole from
me.

Your child shall be mine and I shall speak through its mouth; you
shall see my look in its eyes, so that you'll thrust it from you
like a foe.

And now, belovèd house, farewell; farewell, 'rose' room--where no happiness
shall dwell that I could envy. (He goes out. The STRANGER has
been sitting on the seat all this time, without being able to answer,
and has been listening as if he were the accused.)
Curtain.

ACT II
SCENE I

LABORATORY
[A Garden Pavilion in rococo style with high windows. In the middle of
the room there is a large writing desk on which are various pieces
of chemical and physical apparatus. Two copper wires are suspended from
the ceiling to an electroscope that is standing on the middle of the
table and which is provided with a number of bells, intended to
record the tension of atmospheric electricity.]

[On the table to the left a large old-fashioned frictional electric
generating machine, with glass plates, brass conductors, and Leyden
battery. The stands are lacquered red and white.

On the right a large old-fashioned open fireplace with tripods,
crucibles, pincers, bellows, etc.]

[In the background a door with a view of the country beyond; it is dark
and cloudy weather, but the red rays of the sun occasionally shine
into the room. A brown cloak with a cape and hood is hanging up by the
fireplace; nearby a travelling bag and an alpenstock.

The STRANGER and the MOTHER are discovered together.]
STRANGER. Where is ... Ingeborg?

MOTHER. You know that better than I.

STRANGER. With the lawyer, arranging a divorce. ...

MOTHER. Why?

STRANGER. I told you. No, it's so far-fetched, you'll think I'm lying
to you.

MOTHER. Well, tell me!

STRANGER. She wants a divorce, because I've refused to turn this man
out, although he's deranged. She says it's cowardly of me. ...

MOTHER. I don't believe it.

STRANGER. You see! You only believe what you wish; all the rest is
lies. Well, can you find it in accordance with your interests to believe
that she's been stealing my letters?

MOTHER. I know nothing of that.

STRANGER. I'm not asking you whether you know of it, but whether you
believe it.

MOTHER (changing the subject). What are you trying to do here?

STRANGER.

I'm making experiments concerning atmospheric electricity.

MOTHER. And that's the lighting conductor, that you've connected to the
desk!

STRANGER. Yes.

But there's no danger; for the bells would ring if there were an
atmospheric disturbance.

MOTHER. That's blasphemy and black magic.

Take care!

And what are you doing there, in the fireplace?

STRANGER. Making gold.

MOTHER. You think it possible?

STRANGER. You take it for granted I'm a charlatan? I shan't blame
you for that; but don't judge too quickly.

At any moment I expect to get a sworn statement of analysis.

MOTHER. I dare say. But what are you going to do if Ingeborg doesn't come
back?

STRANGER. She will, this time. Later, perhaps, when the child's here,
she'll cut herself adrift.

MOTHER. You seem very sure.

STRANGER. Yes. As I said, I still am. So long as the bond's not broken
you can feel it. When it is, you'll feel that unpleasantly clearly,
too.

MOTHER. But when you've parted from one another, you may yet both be
bound to the child.

You can't tell in advance.

STRANGER. I've been providing against that by a great interest,
that I hope will fill my empty life.

MOTHER. You mean gold. And honour!

STRANGER. Precisely! For a man the most enduring of all illusions.

MOTHER. So you'd build on illusions?

STRANGER. On what else should I build, when everything's illusion?

MOTHER.

If you ever awake from your dream, you'll find a reality of which you've
never been able to dream.

STRANGER. Then I'll wait till that happens.

MOTHER. Wait then. Now I'll go and shut the window, before the
thunderstorm breaks.

STRANGER (going towards the back of the stage). That's going to be
interesting. (A hunting horn is heard in the distance.) Who's
sounding that horn?
MOTHER. No one knows; and it means nothing good. (She goes out.)

STRANGER (busying himself with the electroscope, and turning his
back on the open window as he does so; then taking up a book and
reading aloud.) 'When Adam's race of giants had increased enough
for them to consider their number sufficient to risk an attack on
those above, they began to build a tower that was to reach up to
Heaven. Those above were then seized with fear and, in order to
protect themselves, broke up the assembled multitude by so confusing
their tongues and their minds that two people who met could not
understand one another, even if they spoke the same language Since
then, those above rule by discord: divide and rule.
And the discord is upheld by the belief that the truth has been
found; but when one of the prophets is believed, he is a lying
prophet. If on the other hand a mortal succeeds in penetrating the
secret of those above, no one believes him, and he is struck with
madness so that no one ever shall. Since then mortals have been
more or less demented, particularly those who are held to be wise,
but madmen are in reality the only wise men; for they can see, hear
and feel the invisible, the inaudible and the intangible, though
they cannot relate their experiences to others.' Thus Zohar, the
wisest of all the books of wisdom, and therefore one that no one
believes. I shall build no tower of Babel, but I shall tempt the
Powers into my mousetrap, and send them to the Powers below, the
subterranean ones, so that they can be neutralised. It is the higher
Schedim, who have come between mortal men and the Lord Zabaoth; and
that is why joy, peace and happiness have vanished from the
earth.
LADY (coming back in despair, throwing herself down in front of the
STRANGER and putting her arms round his feet and her head on the
ground.) Help me! Help me! And forgive me.
STRANGER. Get up. In God's name! Get up. Don't do that. What's
happened?
LADY. In my anger I've behaved foolishly. I've been caught in my
own net.
STRANGER (lifting her up). Stand up, foolish child; and tell me
what's happened.

LADY. I went to the public prosecutor.
STRANGER. ... and asked for a divorce. ...
LADY. ... that was my intention; but when I got there, I laid
information against the werewolf for a breach of the peace and
attempted murder.

STRANGER. But he's guilty of neither!
LADY. No, but I laid the information all the same. ... And when I
was there, he came himself to lay information against me for bearing
false witness. Then I went to the lawyer and he told me that I could
expect a sentence of at least a month. Think of it, my child will
be born in prison! How can I escape from that? Help me.
You can. Speak!
STRANGER. Yes, I can help you. But, if I do, don't revenge yourself
on me afterwards.
LADY. How little you know me. But tell me quickly.
STRANGER. I must take the blame on myself, and say I sent you.
LADY. How generous you are! Am I rid of the whole business
now?
STRANGER. Dry your eyes, my child, and take comfort. But tell me
about something else, that's nothing to do with this. Did you leave
this purse here? (The LADY is embarrassed.) Tell me!
LADY. Has such a thing ever happened before?
STRANGER. Yes. The 'other one' wanted to discover, in this way,
whether I stole. The first time it happened I wept, because I was
still young and innocent.

LADY. Oh no!
STRANGER. Now you seem to me the most wretched creature on earth.
LADY. Is that why you love me?
STRANGER. No. You've been stealing my letters, too! Answer, yes!
And that's why you wanted to prove me a thief with this purse.
LADY. What have you got there, on the table.

STRANGER. Lightning!
(There is a flash of lightning, but no thunder.)
LADY. Aren't you afraid?
STRANGER. Yes, sometimes; but not of what you fear.
(The contorted face of the DOCTOR appears outside the window.)
LADY. Is there a cat in the room? I feel uneasy.
STRANGER. I don't think so. Yet I too have a feeling that there's
someone here.
LADY (turning and seeing the DOCTOR's face; then screaming and
hurrying to the STRANGER for protection.) Oh! There he is!
STRANGER. Where? Who?

(The DOCTOR'S face disappears.)
LADY. There, at the window. It's he!
STRANGER. I can see no one. You must be wrong.
LADY. No, I saw him. The werewolf! Can't we be rid of him?
STRANGER. Yes, we could. But it'd be useless, because he has an
immortal soul, which is bound to yours.
LADY. If I'd only known that before!
STRANGER. It's surely in the Catechism.
LADY. Then let us die!
STRANGER. That was once my religion; but as I no longer believe
that death's the end, nothing remains but to bear everything--to
fight, and to suffer!

LADY. For how long must we suffer?
STRANGER. As long as he suffers and our consciences plague us.
LADY. Then we must try and justify ourselves to our consciences;
find excuses for our frivolous actions, and discover his
weaknesses.

STRANGER. Well, you can try!
LADY. You say that! Since I've known he's unhappy I can see nothing
but his qualities, and you lose when I compare you with him.
STRANGER. See how well it's arranged! His sufferings sanctify him,
but mine make me abhorrent and laughable! We must face the immutable.
We've destroyed a soul, so we are murderers.
LADY. Who is to blame?
STRANGER. He who's so mismanaged the fate of men.
(There is a flash of lightning; the electric bells begin to ring.)
LADY. O God! What's that?

STRANGER. The answer.
LADY. Is there a lightning conductor here?
STRANGER. The priest of Baal wishes to coax the lightning from
heaven. ...
LADY. Now I'm frightened, frightened of you. You're terrifying.
STRANGER. You see!
LADY. Who are you to defy Heaven, and to dare to play with the
destinies of men?
STRANGER. Get up and collect your thoughts. Listen to me, believe
me, and pay me the respect that's my due; and I'll lift both of us
high above this frog pond, to which we've both descended. I'll
breathe on your sick conscience so that it heals like a wound. Who
am I? A man who has done what no one else has ever done; who will
overthrow the Golden Calf and upset the tables of the money-changers.
I hold the fate of the world in my crucible; and in a week I can
make the richest of the rich a poor man. Gold, the most false of
all standards, has ceased to rule; every man will now be as poor
as his neighbour, and the children of men will hurry about like
ants whose heap has been disturbed.
LADY. What good will that be to us?
STRANGER. Do you think I'll make gold in order to enrich ourselves
and others? No. I'll do it to paralyse the present order, to disrupt
it, as you'll see! I am the destroyer, the dissolver, the world
incendiary; and when all lies in ashes, I shall wander hungrily
through the heaps of ruins, rejoicing at the thought that it is all
my work: that I have written the last page of world history, which
can then be held to be ended.
(The face of the DOMINICAN appears at the open window, without being
seen by those on the stage.)
LADY. Then that was the real meaning of your last book! It was no
invention!
STRANGER. No. But in order to write it, I had to link myself with
the self of another, who could take everything from me that fettered
my soul. So that my spirit could once more find a fiery blast, on
which to mount to the ether, elude the Powers, and reach the Throne,
in order to lay the lamentations of mankind at the feet of the
Eternal One. ... (The DOMINICAN makes the sign of the cross in the
air and disappears.) Who's here? Who is the Terrible One who follows
me and cripples my thoughts? Did you see no one?
LADY. No. No one.
STRANGER. But I can feel his presence. (He puts his hand to his
heart.) Can't you hear, far, far away, someone saying a rosary?
LADY. Yes, I can hear it. But it's not the Angels' Greeting. It's
the Curse of Deuteronomy! Woe unto us!
STRANGER. Then it must be in the convent of St. Saviour.
LADY. Woe! Woe!

STRANGER. Beloved. What is it?
LADY. Belovèd! Say that word again.

STRANGER. Are you ill?
LADY. No, but I'm in pain, and yet glad at the same time. Go and
ask my mother to make up my bed. But first give me your
blessing.

STRANGER. Shall I ...?
LADY. Say you forgive me; I may die, if the child takes my life.
Say that you love me.
STRANGER. Strange: I can't get the word to cross my lips.
LADY. Then you don't love me?
STRANGER. When you say so, it seems so to me. It's terrible, but I
fear I hate you.
LADY. Then at least give me your hand; as you'd give it to someone
in distress.
STRANGER. I'd like to, but I can't. Someone in me takes pleasure
in your agony; but it's not I. I'd like to carry you in my arms and
bear your suffering for you. But I may not. I cannot!
LADY. You're as hard as stone.
STRANGER (with restrained emotion). Perhaps not. Perhaps not.
LADY. Come to me!
STRANGER. I can't stir from here. It's as if someone had taken
possession of my soul; and I'd like to kill myself so as to take
the life of the other.
LADY. Think of your child with joy. ...
STRANGER. I can't even do that, for it'll bind me to earth.
LADY. If we've sinned, we've been punished! Haven't we suffered
enough?

STRANGER. Not yet. But one day we shall have.
LADY (sinking down). Help me. Mercy! I shall faint!
(The STRANGER extends his hand, as if he had recovered from a cramp.
The LADY kisses it. The STRANGER lifts her up and leads her to the
door of the house.) 
Curtain.

SCENE II 
THE 'ROSE' ROOM
[A room with rose-coloured walls; it has small windows with iron
lattices and plants in pots. The curtains are rose red; the furniture
is white and red. In the background a door leading to a white
bed-chamber; when this door is opened, a large bed can be seen with
a canopy and white hangings. On the right the door leading out of
the house.My man is to get his helmet,
'_avec le grand panache_,' and his long gray-blue military cape, and
with my riding boots and spurs and a sword, I shall be able to fool
those boobs out there; that is, if they don't throw on me one of those
damned spot lights. If they do, G-o-o-d-n-i-g-h-t! Then I can only say
that I am doing it on a bet. But I hardly think that would save me in
these times. The least I could expect would be a term in prison for
insulting the uniform. I will go down in history as 'Little Boy Blue up
in the air.'"

"It's a big risk you're taking," frowned Edestone, "and were there any
other way I would not allow you to do this. But if you do succeed, you
will go down in history in a way you could never dream. Lawrence, if
you get back safely with this information, I will make you a present of
$1,000,000."

Lawrence looked at his friend as if he thought that he had lost his
mind, but when he saw the look of determination on Edestone's strong
face, which seemed to have aged within the hour, and when he felt the
grip of his powerful hand, he knew that he meant every word he said.

"By God, old man," he said with a little break in his voice, "you
should be the Emperor instead of his nibs out there."

"I may be yet," said Edestone smiling, and a look came on his face that
Lawrence had never seen there before.

The servants were moving quietly about the room, but it was plain to
see that they felt the presence of the Lord's Anointed. Through the
house could be heard the clatter of many swords and the tramping of
booted heels along the marble hall. It sent a thrill through Edestone
that he would have had difficulty to explain. It was like the echo of
some far distant past seeming to recall to life a sleeping spirit,
which with great exultation was throwing off the fetters of its long
slumbers. He seemed to be impelled by an almost irresistible force to
rush into their midst and take his rightful position at their head.

He was recalled to himself by the sudden silence that had fallen on the
entire house, as though some great army had been halted and was
standing at rigid attention. Then he heard the silvery tinkle and
metallic clink of sabre and spurs as of a single figure striding with
military precision over the softest of carpets, and he could picture
that majestic form advancing well in front of his glittering escort as
they stood in breathless silence while he made his dramatic entrance.

Then the silence was broken by a voice which said slowly and
distinctly: "His Imperial Majesty." An almost simultaneous click
followed as if all had come to a salute and were waiting for the sign
to relax and from automatons become human beings again.

Edestone was all alone in the dining-room.

The servants had left the room after removing the table decorations,
covering it with a dark cloth and setting a large bowl of flowers in
the centre; and Lawrence had gone out quietly on hearing the noise in
the hall.

And so he sat, this young man in a strange land, thousands of miles
away from his home, waiting to be called to a death struggle, without
help from anyone, with the most powerful, arrogant, and relentless man
on the face of the earth, an adversary surrounded by the most perfect
fighting machine yet devised by man, with all the confidence, that
tradition, success, and a brilliant mind could give. An Emperor with
the sublime dignity of his position which he sincerely believed he held
by Divine Right, and who had always lived surrounded by an atmosphere
of absolute submission to his will.

Yet Edestone was not afraid. He was not even nervous. He was merely
anxious to be up and doing. This show of force, those mysterious
two-wheeled wagons, had roused his fighting blood. So assured was
he of his own sincerity in his efforts for the good of all that he
resented the attitude which they had taken. He knew they would try
to get his invention peaceably, if possible, but would stop at nothing
if they failed, and he expected some overt act of violence tonight that
would mean war with the United States.

So when he was called by one of the under-secretaries of the Embassy he
went with little charity in his heart, but with head erect and
determination shown in his every movement, bearing on his face, which
seemed to have grown very hard, a look that left no doubt of the
fearlessness of the spirit that was behind it.

He was taken in at one end of the large room that vibrated with light
and colour. Around three sides of it was banked the most brilliant
array of uniforms that he had ever seen. There were white-headed
generals ablaze with decorations and medals; there were young princes
with simple uniforms and with but one handsome decoration to show their
distinguished rank. There were Cuirassiers and Uhlans, and now and then
he could pick out the sombre black and silver uniforms of the
celebrated Death's-Head Hussars.

But the one figure which dominated all and held his attention was that
of the Emperor.

He stood in the centre of the room with the Secretary and General von
Lichtenstein, Mrs. Jones having retired as soon as she had received her
distinguished guest.

He was a man of medium height but with a bearing which made him appear
larger than he really was. He was dressed in the wonderful white
uniform of the Garde du Corps, which carried with it the celebrated
silver eagle helmet.

As this figure dominated and held the centre of this brilliant picture,
so his face drew the attention from his magnificent uniform and held it
as with a magnetic power. It was handsome, intelligent, strong, but
above all it was commanding. There was little kindness but there was a
merry twinkle in his sharp blue eyes which showed a human side and was
most attractive.

These eyes could change, however, and when he saw Edestone and they
were met by his perfectly fearless but respectful glance, they seemed
to try by force to penetrate his very soul.

Edestone advanced alone until he came to within a few paces of the
central group, and then stopped, standing with one knee slightly bent,
his right hand held lightly in front of his body, which was inclined in
a graceful and easy attitude of reverence, while his other hand hung
naturally at his side.

After his first quick glance, Edestone dropped his eyes to about the
Emperor's knees and held them there until the Secretary, with a slight
gesture, called him to his side. The young man then straightened up and
went slowly to the Ambassador's left, and there stood perfectly erect
looking straight at the Emperor, while Jones with some show of
embarrassment was saying:

"Your Majesty, may I present Mr. John Fulton Edestone, of New York."

The Emperor, with the hearty and easy manner which he always assumes
with those he has been told are distinguished Americans and with that
quizzical expression in his sharp eyes which, though attractive, is
described as most disconcerting, replied.

"Mr. Edestone," he said, in a loud voice, "your fame has gone before
you, and we are always glad to welcome distinguished men of science in
Berlin, which we think is the centre of science and culture. Your name,
that of a great lighthouse and suggesting the greatest of your
inventions, electric lights, convinces me that you were born to blaze
the way for us," and he laughed, in which he was joined heartily by his
well-trained courtiers, who knew that nothing pleased him more than to
appreciate his little jokes of which he was so fond.

With his quick eye for detail he had caught the Cincinnati button worn
by Edestone, and said:

"I see that you are the descendant of a soldier, which gives you a
greater claim upon my imperial favour. What was your ancestor's rank?"

"He was a general, Your Majesty," replied Edestone with a firmness that
seemed to attract and slightly offend him.

He scowled. He was so accustomed to seeing strong men quail before him
that the coolness of the other man shocked his sense of propriety.
"General von Lichtenstein tells me," his face brightening up again,
"that you have made a very interesting invention, which may be of great
service to me in bringing to a successful end sooner than I had
expected this cruel war, which has been forced upon me by those
grasping English. He tells me that you have motion pictures of this
invention in actual war practice, which the representative of the
American Ambassador has so kindly invited me here to see."

Turning to Jones, he said with great show of condescension: "I thank
you, Mr. Secretary." Then looking at Edestone sharply, and with rather
a sarcastic turn in his voice, he continued: "I will gladly see your
pictures, and what is perhaps of more interest to you, no doubt, I
will, if I like it, buy your invention at a good price."

And then, as if addressing the entire company, who stood waiting to
applaud his every sentiment, he said: "Germany expects and is able to
pay large prices for American goods now." And then, as if to cut short
any possible protest that Edestone might presume to make, he turned his
back upon him and said very abruptly to the Secretary: "Where are these
pictures?"

"In the next room," replied the Secretary, "and if you please, Mr.
Edestone will show them to Your Majesty at once. Edestone," he said,
"has everything been arranged?"

"Yes," nodded Edestone. Though boiling with rage he kept a perfectly
calm exterior.

The entire company led by the Emperor and the Secretary moved into
another room where Black had installed the apparatus.

Edestone, with his usual modesty, had obliterated himself, and bringing
up the rear was about to go around through the other rooms to reach his
place in front of the screen when his attention was called by General
von Lichtenstein, who had fallen back apparently with the intention of
speaking to him apart from the others.

"Mr. Edestone," he said, drawing him aside, "one would think that you
had spent your entire life among us," and with a quizzical smile he
added: "I think you rather astonished the Kaiser by your _sang-froid_.
I have seen men of the highest rank stand speechless in his presence,
while you are as finished as a courtier of the Grand Monarque and as
cool as the Iron Chancellor.

"I admit," he said in his fatherly manner, "I had no authority from you
to do so, but thought it best to leave upon the Emperor the impression
that you would sell your invention. Had I not done so he certainly
would have demanded the reasons for your presence in Berlin, and had I
dared to suggest that you had been sent by the United States to coerce
him he would have been thrown into such a rage that he might have
declared war on your country, which I understand is the last thing that
you want."

"I regret that you did this, General von Lichtenstein, if I may be
pardoned for seeming to criticize a statesman of your experience and
distinction; for I do not intend to sell and my country has not sent me
to coerce. I have come instead to appeal to your reason, after showing
you the uselessness of continuing this loss of life in the face of the
great power in the hands of those who know the secret of my invention
and intend to put a stop to it."

A cloud seemed to pass over the General's face, but he soon recovered
his bland, almost Oriental smile.

"But, Mr. Edestone, you seem to forget that whereas others _may_ have
the secret, we know that you certainly have it, and you are still our
most honoured guest in Berlin."

"Where I am also the guest of my own country, so long as the Acting
Ambassador is so kind as to allow me to remain under his roof and our
flag," replied Edestone pointedly, intending if possible to force the
General's hand.

In this he failed as the old man only smiled through his glasses.

"A great statesman was lost when you turned inventor, Mr. Edestone," he
said in a most complimentary tone. "But come, I fear His Majesty
waits." And then changing his manner, he said with a knowing wink:

"Here is a note which Princess Wilhelmina asked me to deliver to you.
She seems to be very much interested. Can it be possible that you are
raising your eyes to a Princess of the Blood?

"Still, stranger things than that have happened," he half mused, "and
His Imperial Majesty is always glad to recognize talent and reward it
in a befitting manner."

They went into the other room where the Emperor sat waiting. Evidently
impatient that Edestone was not at his position of parlour entertainer
in front of the screen with his pointer in hand as soon as the Imperial
eye should deign to be cast in that direction, he rose with exaggerated
politeness when the American appeared and said in a most sarcastic
manner: "Must the whole world wait while inventors dream?"

Then sitting down he added in a harsh and irritable tone: "With your
very kind assistance, Mr. Edestone, we will now inspect these much
talked of pictures."

There was a silence in the room that was like a gasp of horror, and
the company all standing looked as if they expected to see Edestone
sink to the floor with mortification; that is, all except Jones, who
slow-moving had only gotten half-way to his feet when the Kaiser sat
down, and who now dropped back into his chair with a quizzical little
smile playing about the corners of his mouth.

But Edestone, with the respectful manner of a grown man answering his
father, who still looked upon him as a boy, and who had reproved him
unjustly, said with an indulgent smile that bore no trace of
resentment:

"I beg that Your Majesty will forgive me, but I was held prisoner by
General von Lichtenstein, and not until I waved the Stars and Stripes
would he let me go."

The General hurried over to the Emperor. "Pardon me, Sire," he said,
for he saw that the Emperor would fly into one of his fits of rage and
might upset all of their well-laid plans if something was not quickly
done to quiet him. "Pardon me, Sire, it was my fault. I did not know
that I was keeping Your Majesty waiting."

"Go on with the pictures," said the Emperor, with an impatient gesture
of his enormous right hand, and he sat glaring at the screen as the
lights went out.


CHAPTER XXV

THE MASQUERADER


Lawrence waited until the room was dark and then slipped out unnoticed.
He would have liked to remain and see the rest of Edestone's most
interesting pictures which had started off with those taken in
Newfoundland and included a series not shown at Buckingham Palace. But
he had an exciting task before him. The idea of posing as a Royal
Prince in the magnificent uniform of the Imperial Hussars with nodding
plumes and flowing military cape, his coat-of-arms emblazoned on his
left shoulder, appealed to his dramatic instincts, as did the danger to
his passion for adventure.

He was brave, but unlike Edestone his was the bravery of an unthinking
recklessness rather than that of a perfectly balanced mind which,
contemptuous of the body that carries it, forces that body to do its
bidding.

The fact that Edestone had offered him an unheard of reward had made
little impression, going in one ear and out of the other. He would
accept it as lightly as it had been offered because he himself would
have made exactly the same offer under the same circumstances. Whenever
he wanted anything he paid the price, even if it took his last cent. It
was no incentive to action now, as he would have gladly paid for the
privilege of playing this big part in this wonderful melodrama--a
melodrama which he was prepared at any time to see change into a
tragedy, with him the dead hero.

He found that his Bowery boy Fred, under the pretext that it was
customary in the best New York "high society," had bullied the German
flunkeys into bringing all of the officers' helmets and cloaks upstairs
and laying them out on a bed in one of the chambers on the second
floor, from which place it was easy for him to smuggle all he wanted
into Lawrence's room. Lawrence found him there waiting to help him
"make up."

Turning up the collar of his dress coat so as to hide his white shirt
front, the masquerader buckled on the sabre that Fred handed to him.
Without changing his trousers he put on his riding boots and spurs,
which with the busby and cloak, a pair of white kid gloves, and a small
blond moustache completed his disguise. Standing thus in the middle of
the room with the door open, he waited until Fred signalled that the
coast was clear. He then stepped quickly across the hall and into the
elevator, closely followed by Fred, who closed the door. When they were
perfectly safe from interruption, he adjusted his costume and his false
moustache to his entire satisfaction, pinning the cloak securely
together with large safety pins to prevent it from flying open. Then as
the elevator passed the main floor on its way to the basement, he made
a gesture of derision.

Fred got out of the car and again carefully reconnoitred. Finding that
the passage leading to the garden was clear and that there was no one
in the billiard room, which was between the elevator and the outside
door, he signalled and Lawrence walked out into the garden at the side
of the Embassy.

It was quite dark there, but not dark enough to prevent the soldiers,
who were stationed about to watch this door, from seeing him as he
stood perfectly still as if hesitating which way to turn.

Observing that he was an officer, they saluted and stood at attention.
Then as he moved forward and they saw the insignia on his cloak they
signalled in some mysterious manner to the next post, who in turn
passed it down the line that Royalty was at large and that they must be
careful not to be caught napping.

Accordingly, as Lawrence emerged from the semi-darkness and came around
to the front of the Embassy, every soldier was standing at attention
and the different officers, after looking searchingly but most
respectfully at him to satisfy themselves who he was, stepped back and
allowed him to pass, while they stood like pieces of stone.

Lawrence did not deign even to notice them, but, reeling unsteadily in
his gait, passed them without even acknowledging their salute.

His presence having been reported to the Captain who had charge of the
company that was stationed in the street immediately in front of the
Embassy, this officer hastened up to him.

"Is there anything that you require, Your Royal Highness?" he saluted.
Lawrence, carrying out his pretence of intoxication, gave a perfect
imitation of the Prince when in that condition.

"I am making a tour of inspection to see that everything is all right,"
he said thickly.

The Captain saw his condition and showed an inclination to follow him,
but Lawrence waved his hand with what was intended to be a regal
gesture, although in fact it seemed to throw him almost off his
balance.

The Captain stepped back most respectfully and saluted, but smiled as
he followed with his eyes the young Prince.

Lawrence strutted quickly but unsteadily until he came to within about
a hundred yards of the mortars, where a sentry challenged him.

"Pardon me, Your Royal Highness, but my orders are to permit no one to
pass. If you will allow me, I will call the Corporal of the Guard, who
will send for the Captain."

Lawrence interrupted him by bellowing:

"Get out of my way, you stupid blockhead, or I'll kick you out of my
way! I have not time to wait for the lot of fools that you all are."

Then as the man did not move he gave him a tremendous upper-cut,
catching his chin with the base of his open hand and sending his head
back and lifting him off his feet. He fell sprawling about ten feet
away against an iron railing, where he lay perfectly still with a nasty
cut in the back of his head.

The Captain, who had been slowly following to see that nothing happened
to his Royal charge, ran up quickly and, ordering another soldier to
take the place of the fallen sentry, had the wounded man hurried
quickly out of sight.

In the meantime Lawrence was strolling along, without even looking back
at the poor fellow where he lay.

"I caught him just right," he muttered with a touch of compunction. "I
hope I did not hurt him badly."

When he finally came to the mortars with the mysterious two-wheeled
wagons attached to them, he walked around from one to the other, as if
he were making a careful inspection to see that everything was all
right. It was impossible for him even now to make out what was hidden
under the canvas covers. One thing he could see, however, and that was,
that from under each there ran a carefully insulated electric cable to
the nearest fire hydrant where it was carefully attached.

After inspecting all four, Lawrence turned around and went back to the
second wagon, the cover of which he had noticed was not on exactly
straight. He hoped to be able to see what was underneath, but he found
that the cover was strapped down so tightly that he could get no
inkling.

During all this time the officers and men were standing at attention in
their proper places, although they followed him with their eyes, an
amused expression on their faces.

Finding that it was impossible for him to discover anything while the
covers remained on the wagons, he bellowed in a loud and commanding
voice, not forgetting to imitate Royalty in its cups:

"Lieutenant!"

And to the young officer who ran up to him he said:

"Why is not that cover on straight? Did you not receive orders that
these--" and as Lawrence had not the slightest idea what "these" were,
he substituted a loud hiccough for the unknown name, and contented
himself with pointing with an unsteady hand. "Did you not understand
these had to be perfectly concealed? Now that one is not perfectly
concealed, for I can see perfectly what it is, so take that cover off
and put it on straight. And be quick about it or I will report you for
untidiness."

The Lieutenant, who was one of the very young recruits now officering
the German Army, feeling overpowered by the presence of Royalty, had
given the order, and the men were unstrapping the cover when the
Captain came up.

"What are you doing there?" he demanded. Then turning sharply to the
young Lieutenant he said in the most brutal manner:

"Don't you know that the orders are not to take these covers off, not
until the very last minute, not until everything else has been tried
and has failed to bring her down."

"But His Royal Highness," stammered the younger officer, "has ordered
this cover off because it is not on straight."

"But, Your Royal Highness," expostulated the Captain, although in the
most deferential manner, "don't you think that this cover is on
straight enough?"

"What! Do you mean to contradict me?" Lawrence almost screamed. "I say
that the cover is not on straight, and I have ordered this fool to take
it off and put it on straight, perfectly straight."

"But that is impossible," said the Captain, warily keeping out of reach
of His Royal Highness's fists. "The orders are that these covers are
not to come off until the American flying machine makes its appearance,
and if it does not appear, the covers are not to come off at all. These
are the orders of the General Staff, and Your Royal Highness must
realize that they have to be obeyed."

"Well," said Lawrence with the persistency of a drunken man, talking at
the top of his voice, "if you do not put that cover on straight I will
report you, and you will be court-martialled for insulting a Prince of
the Blood."

All the while he kept swaying as if he were about to fall.

Straightening himself up with much difficulty and assuming a drunken
dignity he started to go away; but as if he were unable to free his
intoxicated mind from the one idea that obsessed it, he turned and
changed his tone to a persuasive one.

"I don't insist that you take the cover off," he laughed, "I only
insist that it be straightened, because you can see as well as I that
it is not on perfectly straight, and your orders were to put these
covers on straight, perfectly straight."

The Captain, now thoroughly amused, and deciding that the best way was
to humour him, thought, since his orders were only not to remove, that
he would be able to satisfy the Prince without directly disobeying his
instructions. He therefore ordered the men to unstrap the cover and
pull it around.

Lawrence seemed entirely satisfied with this, and took such interest in
seeing that the cover was adjusted to exactly the right position, that
he leaned over and took hold of it himself, as if to give his help. As
he did so he gave a lurch, and grabbing at the cover as if to save
himself, he went down in a heap with it on top of him.

The men helped him quickly to his feet and as quickly readjusted the
cover, but not before he had seen that the drum-shaped objects were in
fact great wooden spools on which were wound thousands and thousands of
yards of large copper wire.

Having seen all that he wanted, he now turned his attention towards
getting back to the Embassy, so taking the Captain's arm, and seeming
either to have lost all interest or to have been overcome by his fall,
made his way along. He swung and lurched so that it was with difficulty
the officer kept him on his feet.

Then when they arrived at the front steps and the Captain was assisting
him up, Lawrence, as if suddenly awaking from sleep, stopped.

"I am too dirty to go in by the front door," he protested, "I will go
in by the garden. I am much obliged to you, Captain; don't come any
farther."

Then laughing and shaking his finger in the Captain's face, he said in
a tone of exultation: "I got that cover on straight, anyhow--perfectly
straight."

Swaying as he rounded the corner of the house, he went in through the
side door, where he found Fred waiting for him, who pulled off his
boots and gave him his pumps.

He took off his busby, and handed it to Fred, unpinned the long
military cloak, unbuckled his sword, turned down the collar of his
evening coat, and "Richard was himself again."

Stepping into the elevator and letting himself off at the main floor,
he went hurriedly into the room where Edestone was still showing his
pictures, while Fred, after brushing and cleaning the royal
paraphernalia, put them back in their place.

Lawrence moved quickly over to the cabinet where Mr. Black was working
the machine and stepped inside. "I must speak to Mr. Edestone," he
whispered. "Can't you stop the machine as if something had gone wrong?
Then Mr. Edestone will come back here and see what is the matter."

"Not on your life!" Black shook his head violently. "The Emperor now is
in a perfect fury. He and Mr. Edestone have had one or two 'set-tos,'
and Mr. Edestone is beginning to put it back at him pretty strong, and
if anything should happen to the machine I think it would end in a
fight. I rather wish we were back in New York. If it is necessary for
you to speak to Mr. Edestone before the lights go up, this reel that I
am running off now will take just about eight minutes more, so if you
will slip quietly back of the screen you can whisper to him from there
without attracting much attention. I will make a little extra noise to
help you out."

Lawrence worked his way unobtrusively through the room, and standing
just to the side of the screen in a dark corner, called in a low voice:

"Jack, can I speak to you?"

Edestone, who had been deeply concerned about him, felt that a load was
lifted from his mind when he heard the dare-devil's voice. He knew at
least that Lawrence was back safely, and he was confident that he would
not have come back without the information until he had made a good
fight for it. So as everything was quiet on the outside he was
reassured.

Lawrence very quickly explained to him exactly what he had seen, and
Edestone, squeezing his arm, said quietly:

"Ah! That is their little game!"


CHAPTER XXVI

TWO REMARKABLE MEN


When the lights finally went up and the entertainment ended, perhaps
the most surprised, almost dumbfounded, man in the room was Jones. He
now had his first insight into the stupendous amount of work that had
been done by his friend, and was completely overcome by the seriousness
of the situation. He understood at last many things which had been lost
on him before, as for instance the insinuating remarks of the
Chancellor at their various conferences and why he had suspected the
Secretary of lying to him.

Jones wondered also if his own Government had purposely kept the
Embassy in the dark as to its relationship with Edestone. Not knowing
the whereabouts or even the ownership of this frightful instrument of
war, he was at a loss to know what he should say when certain pointed
questions which were inevitable were put to him.

He realized now for the first time that the German General Staff was at
work and would stop at nothing either to obtain the use of this great
monster of the air or, by seizing Edestone himself, control its
movements; that is, if Edestone and not the United States were
operating it.

He could not blind himself to the air of confidence that pervaded the
entire company, composed as it was of the highest men in the German
Government, and this led him to believe that they knew Edestone held
the key of the situation, and as long as they held him they occupied
the strongest position.

But why, he could not help asking himself, had Edestone been such a
fool as to put himself so completely in their power. Still, being a
very astute man, and having the greatest confidence in his old friend,
who he knew would do the straight thing in a strong position and the
wise thing if he found himself in a weak one, he awaited developments.

Edestone, who had walked over to the Secretary of Legation, leaned down
and said in a voice loud enough for the Emperor to hear:

"Will you please say to His Imperial Majesty that if there is any
question he would like to put to me, or if he would care to have me
repeat any of the pictures, I should appreciate the great honour."

The Emperor, who was just waking up to the fact that he had in this
young American a very strong and clever man to deal with, was to a
certain extent at a loss to decide just how he would treat him.

Without waiting to have the request conveyed to him in due form, and
speaking directly to Edestone he said in an affable voice:

"I should like to see again the picture showing the working of the
bomb-dropping device, and I would like to have the film stopped exactly
at the moment that the projectile leaves the tube. I wish to examine
the action of the ejector."

"I shall be most happy," replied Edestone, "to run that film again very
slowly and repeat it as often as Your Majesty may desire. I can also
run it backward very slowly, but I cannot stop the machine that I am
using tonight without ruining the film, and I am quite sure," he bowed
most respectfully, "that Your Majesty will not wish me to do that."

"Stop that machine as I order you to do, and ruin the film if it is
necessary!" said the Emperor in his most commanding tone.

At last Edestone had the chance he had been looking for. He knew that
he was perfectly in his rights, and if he refused and the Emperor still
insisted upon his most unjust demand, it would open the eyes of his
country's representative to the situation and the true attitude of the
German authorities. Besides, he was incensed at the wanton destruction
of other people's property to satisfy the whims of this absolute
monarch.

"I am very sorry, Your Majesty, I cannot do that, and for state reasons
that it is impossible for me to explain."

The Emperor turned perfectly livid. His face was painful to look at. He
tried vainly to speak, but could not. It was plain that he was
labouring under an emotion greater than his physical condition could
stand. His mouth worked and each hair of his moustache seemed to stand
on end, giving to his trembling lips an almost ghastly expression. He
was seized with a violent fit of coughing which on account of the weak
condition of his throat caused his doctor, without whom he rarely
moved, to step forward, as if alarmed, to his assistance.

General von Lichtenstein leaned over as if to restrain him and
whispered something in his ear, but this seemed only to infuriate him
the more, and he waved his Councillor aside.

The Acting Ambassador, a lawyer of ability, felt strongly the justice
of Edestone's position in defending his property rights, and had he
been sitting on the bench instead of on the edge of a raging volcano
would have ruled in his favour. As it was, he watched with intense
interest this contest between these two remarkable men.

When the Emperor had recovered sufficiently to speak, in a way that
showed his uncontrollable rage was battling with an inherited physical
weakness, his voice, starting in a whisper, rose and broke, and, in his
violent efforts to control the convulsive spasms of his throat, turned
into a scream.

"Show that film!" he shouted, "and stop it where I command or I will
confiscate everything you have and throw you into prison."

At this Jones rose quickly to his feet, a dangerous light in his eyes,
and he was about to speak, but General von Lichtenstein rushed over and
stopped him.

"His Majesty is beside himself," he urged in a low voice. "He does not
mean what he says. When he is himself again he will regret the
indignity that he has offered your country and will make reparation."

The Emperor had also arisen and was standing in the midst of as furious
and warlike a looking lot of men as had ever grouped themselves around
his wild barbaric ancestors, ready to pile their dead bodies about
their master and give the last drop of blood for his protection.

They looked as if they approved and only waited for the word to rush in
and avenge the insult to their beloved lord, and while waiting for this
word they stood and glared at Edestone with a look of absolute contempt
and undying hatred.

"Well, which shall it be?" said the Emperor, in a voice which was more
under control but none the less determined. "Will you stop your film?"

Edestone, who all this time had stood perfectly still looking at the
Emperor with eyes out of which had gone every vestige of deference and
respect, showed in every feature a fixed and determined but absolutely
cool defiance. The only time that his face had changed or his position
altered since he last spoke was when the Emperor was apparently
suffering, and then it had taken on an expression of deep pity and
sincere sympathy and he too had made a step forward as if to render
assistance.

This had quickly changed, however, when his glance caught the look of
hatred that was riveted upon him. Declining even to glance at the
Emperor, he addressed himself directly to the Secretary of Legation,
speaking in a perfectly clear voice, which was a relief after the
Emperor's painful and rasping efforts.

"Mr. Secretary," he said slowly, "I resent the insult to you, and
through you to our country, which you represent, but if I thought that
by complying with the unjust demands which the Emperor of Germany has
seen fit to make I could prevent war between the United States and his
country, I naturally would comply. When I see, however, that the
Emperor of Germany refuses to respect the rights of an American citizen
in the house of his Ambassador, I realize that the destruction of my
film will not save the situation." He turned to the Emperor. "I regret
that I cannot comply with your commands. The matter is now between our
two Governments."

The Emperor laid his hand upon his sword and made a movement as though
he intended to strike, at which every sword in the room flashed from
its scabbard, save only that of old von Lichtenstein, who pressing
forward laid a dissuasive hand on the Emperor's arm.

"Don't let him draw you on," he whispered to his master; "this may be
some trick." Then to the rest he said in a contemptuous tone: "Don't
make fools of yourselves and make Germany ridiculous."

The Emperor turned to the Secretary. "Sir," he said in a voice
trembling with agitation, "you have heard the insult that has
been offered to my Imperial person, and if you do not deliver
this man over to my police, I shall at twelve o'clock tomorrow
night declare war against the United States of America, and until
that time"--threateningly--"I shall hold you personally responsible
for him."

Edestone coolly took out his watch and noted that it was exactly
twenty-five minutes past eleven o'clock, a proceeding which almost
caused the Emperor to lose control of himself again, but he was once
more held in check by General von Lichtenstein.

"I know now that this is a trick, Your Majesty," he declared.

The Acting Ambassador bowed slightly to the Emperor's last attack. "I
shall report to my Government all that has passed," he replied, "and
exactly what Your Majesty has just said, and I shall, as soon as I
receive an answer, report to Your Imperial Majesty." He finished, and
stood waiting as if to force the Emperor's immediate departure.

Then with scant formality, and showing by the unpardonable rudeness of
their behaviour the contempt in which they held all Americans, the
Emperor and his entire suite left the Embassy without taking the
slightest further notice of Edestone.


CHAPTER XXVII

ALL CARDS ON THE TABLE


The royal party had scarcely gotten out of the house and Edestone and
Jones were still standing in the middle of the reception room when the
return of General von Lichtenstein was announced.

The old General came in as quietly as if nothing had happened. He
greeted the Secretary cordially and smiled benignly at Edestone.

"Young man," he said, "you needed my old head on your young shoulders
badly tonight. I have returned to have a talk with the Acting
Ambassador, and I think that if he can prevail upon you to be
reasonable I may be able to settle this little difficulty between you
and His Imperial Majesty, the Emperor. If you will only lead us into
some smaller room, Mr. Secretary, we can sit down and over our cigars
discuss this matter quietly."

"I am sorry that my machine--" began Edestone, but he was quickly
interrupted by the General.

"Tut, tut, that is nothing at all. That was simply two young men losing
their tempers, and ought to be soon settled. One being an Emperor makes
it a little more difficult, I will admit, but I have seen Emperors
angry before and they are just like any of us. They cool off when they
realize that they have," and he lowered his voice with a quizzical
look, "been a little bit foolish."

When they were all comfortably seated around the table in the library
of the Embassy, and the General and Edestone had lighted cigars, while
Jones, who never smoked, looked on, the old General, statesman,
philosopher, and writer opened the conversation.

"We have now come to the last hand in this game which we have been
playing," he said, "and I think it would be just as well for all cards
to be laid on the table."

Edestone looked at him in surprise, for instead of the simple, smiling
old gentleman, with the soft gentle voice and fatherly manner, he saw a
crafty, dangerous, and determined man of steel. His voice was cold and
harsh, his winning smile had gone. He had come to fight and to fight
desperately to the finish.

"In the first place," he continued, "we do not know exactly what is the
relationship between you," looking at Edestone, "and the United States
of America," with a wave of his hand toward Jones, "and as there can
now be no reason for further concealment, since we are virtually on the
verge of a declaration of war--a step which I am here to prevent if
possible--I will say that it makes no difference to His Imperial
Majesty's Government what that relationship may be, so long as Germany
gets the use of Mr. Edestone's invention. But we will declare war upon
the United States tomorrow night unless we get an assurance from you
that we shall have the exclusive right to the one and only flying
machine in which this invention has been installed."

At this Jones looked over at Edestone with a glance of inquiry.

"Yes," said Edestone in answer to this, "there is only one."

"Germany understands, of course," proceeded the General, "that the
United States will construct others, but so will Germany. Germany is
willing and prepared to pay well for this, although she knows that by
holding Mr. Edestone she controls this machine and could have it
without paying for it. We admit that we do not know where it is, but we
are confident that Mr. Edestone does,"--he turned upon Edestone the
look of a wild beast who has his prey and loves to torture it,--"and we
intend that he shall communicate with the commander and see that this
ship is sent to some place where we can take possession of it."

And then with a grim smile he leaned forward on the table, looking
first at the Secretary and then at Edestone.

"You are both virtually prisoners in this Embassy," he said. "That is
my hand."

"Then we are now at war," said the Secretary with a quiet smile.

"No," replied the General, "it has not come to that yet. And it does
not necessarily have to come to that. We should be able to arrange this
matter here tonight. As I have said, Germany will pay well. She is
willing to start on even terms with the United States, who can build
just as fast as we can. Germany will bring this war to an end within a
week, and then she and the United States can come to an agreement as to
how they will divide up the rest of the earth."

Edestone smiled and made no answer.

The Secretary said: "I can do nothing until I have communicated with my
Government."

"I am sorry," said the General impatiently, "but we cannot wait until
we get an answer from your very slow and inefficient State Department.
We must have a reply before tomorrow night at 12 o'clock. Have you
nothing to say, Mr. Edestone? You are perhaps personally the most
deeply interested, because I tell you," he grinned cruelly, "we will
get your secret if we have to put you on the rack and go back five
centuries in the eyes of the rest of the world, should it be necessary
to do that in order to give it the blessings that can only be gotten
under German rule. I ask you again, have you nothing to say?"

"Nothing, General," replied Edestone.

He was slowly blowing rings of smoke, seeming almost to fascinate the
General, who would often stop speaking to follow them with his eyes
until they broke or were lost in the darkness in the corners of the
room. This was an old trick of his to divert the attention of his
adversary, therein improving on Bismarck who always used his cigar to
gain time when driven to a corner.

"That is your final answer?" said the General.

"My final answer," Edestone bowed.

"And you, Mr. Secretary?"

"I am but the mouthpiece of my Government, and she has not spoken yet."

"Well, gentlemen," said the General rising, "I think we understand each
other."

"I think so," replied Edestone. "Good-night, sir."

The Secretary accompanied the visitor out into the hall, leaving
Edestone, who as soon as he was alone rang for a servant and sent for
Lawrence. In the meantime he just had opportunity to glance at the note
which General von Lichtenstein had given him. It was a mere scrap of
writing asking him to come to the Princess Wilhelmina immediately after
the departure of His Imperial Majesty.

When Lawrence came in he hastily slipped this into his pocket.

"Lawrence," he said, "I want you to send a message for me as soon as
Jones has given his consent. I will ask him in regard to it as soon as
he returns, so you had better wait and hear what he has to say."

A moment later the Secretary came into the room with a very worried
expression on his face. "Edestone," he said impressively, "this
undoubtedly means war."

"And if so," rejoined Edestone, "we will win."

He then explained to Jones how he was in daily communication with
"Specs" and was now only waiting for the Secretary's consent to send
for him and he could have him over Berlin in seven hours. He also
explained to him about the instrument that was in the penthouse on the
roof of the Embassy.

"But what do you propose to do, Jack?" frowned the Secretary. "Do you
intend to fight these people single-handed and thereby drag your
country into a cruel and disastrous war? That seems to me to be
unnecessary."

"No, I propose to save you and the members of the Embassy from a very
disagreeable experience and from what may develop into a very dangerous
situation; for I am convinced that these Germans will not hesitate to
fire upon the Embassy if you do not deliver me up to them. The only
hope of stopping war without loss of life is through me and my
invention. I therefore ask your permission to send the following
message," and he handed the Secretary a scrap of paper upon which he
had written:

"Be exactly over American Embassy Berlin tomorrow night at nine
o'clock. Take station at 5000 feet and there await instructions.

"E."

The Secretary took the paper and read it through twice very slowly.

"I fear," he said with a sigh, "that is the only way."


CHAPTER XXVIII

WHERE IS IT?


The Secretary left the room after practically turning the entire matter
over to Edestone. He feared that the time had come to show force. The
Germans, in what they felt might be a desperate strait, had thrown to
the wind caution, tradition, and the usages of civilized warfare. They
were preparing some desperate move which he felt that he was powerless
to stop. Diplomacy with them now was as useless as pure logic on a
charging elephant.

How they expected to stand against Edestone and his diabolical mystery
of the air, he could not comprehend, but he had lived long enough with
this nation to know them. Simple, kind, and lovable in their ordinary
lives, they were nevertheless, on the subject of war, individually and
collectively mad and they were ready to die fighting.

Whereas any sane man could see that their fight with Edestone was
hopeless, they with their absolute confidence and conceit were
preparing to pit themselves against him and some unknown secret of
nature. While he, with his discovery, was apparently in a position to
let loose upon their defenceless city an engine of destruction too
terrible to think of. Edestone, like the pilot who has come aboard the
ocean liner, had now taken entire charge.

The first thing was to get off this message, so he sat down to work out
the cipher known only to himself and "Specs." He said to Lawrence:

"My initials J. F. E. are the call which must be repeated three times,
then twice, and then finally once. This must all be repeated with one
minute intervals until answered by the single letter 'E,' which will be
repeated eight times, once for every letter in my name, and after an
interval of five minutes, once again only.

"After you have satisfied yourself that you are in touch with Mr. Page,
my head man, 'Specs,' I call him, send him this." He handed Lawrence
one word of twenty-two letters, or rather twenty-two letters which he
had apparently taken indiscriminately from a small pocket dictionary.
"Have him repeat, and see that there is no mistake," and continuing, he
said: "We are certainly being watched by the German servants; the
condition of my trunks shows that, so the first thing to do is to get
them out of the way. Call them all down into the ballroom, and say that
I wish to speak to them. See that everyone is there, and if there is a
single one missing, search the house from garret to cellar until you
find them all. I will give them a little talk which will give you and
Black time to get off this message. I will, incidentally, show them
that I propose to put up with no nonsense whatever."

As Lawrence was leaving the room he said to him with a jolly laugh:
"Oh, by the way, how does it feel to be rich again? I have been so
occupied with other things that I have not had time to thank and
congratulate you on your splendid work. What a fine story it will make
when we get back to New York, which will be very soon, I hope."

When the servants came in he first gave them a little insight into the
real state of affairs from a standpoint that they had never known. He
then explained to them that the Embassy was practically in a state of
siege, and that he was in command, and that if he heard of any one of
them having any communication whatever with anyone on the outside, he
would treat them in the way that he had treated the people in the
pictures which he had shown them, only he would put them out of the
window and they would keep going up and up and never come down again.
So when Lawrence returned and signalled that he might let them go, a
more thoroughly scared set of domestics never waited on the word of
"Ivan the Terrible."

"Well, Bo," said Lawrence as he threw himself into a comfortable chair,
after slopping whisky and water all over the tablecloth and dropping a
large piece of ice on the floor which he kicked violently at the
retreating servant at whom he had bellowed, giving a perfect imitation
of a Prussian officer in a public restaurant when American ladies are
present, "this has certainly been 'some day.' Will you please be so
kind as to put me wise on a few of your dates?

"In the first place, who was the 'wise guy' who rushed out from nowhere
and swallowed up my J. F. E. like an old trout from under a bank who
had never seen a Silver Doctor before? Where is he? How is he to get
here, and what is he going to do when he does?"

Edestone quietly finished the lighting of his cigar, and after he was
thoroughly satisfied that this was perfectly done and it was going to
draw to his entire satisfaction, he said:

"Well, now that you are to be my fellow-partner in crime, and Jones is
our associate, I will tell you. Do you remember the summer way back in
the 90's that you and I spent in Switzerland mountain climbing?"

"Yes, perfectly," said Lawrence, "but that was a long time ago. We were
nothing but kids then."

"Do you remember that you, kid-like, insisted upon going over a very
flimsy-looking snow bridge, simply because the old guide told us that
he had never seen that crevasse bridged before, and that the tradition
down in Chamonix was that it had only been bridged once or twice in the
memory of man?

"And do you remember," went on Edestone, "that at first he refused to
go, saying that if it broke after we got over, there was no possible
way of our getting back?"

"Yes," acknowledged Lawrence, "the old 'chump,' and I remember that we
went over and got back all right, and those guides are talking about it
yet."

"Well, do you remember," continued Edestone, "that when we scrambled
up over the next rock ridge we looked into a regular bowl-shaped
valley that had the appearance of a crater of an extinct volcano?"

"Yes," said Lawrence.

"Well, 'Specs' is there in that valley, where perhaps no human being
has ever been before. I sent him there for that reason. He has been
there for the last two months and a half, unknown to anyone on the face
of the earth and thoroughly protected from the storms that sweep over
that portion of the French Alps."

"Well, I'll be damned," said Lawrence. "Is 'Specs' the skipper of that
pretty little toy you were showing on the screen?"

"No, Captain Lee is the skipper," laughed Edestone. "Dear old 'Specs'
is my boss. He is the Admiral."

"Well, for the love of Mike," exploded Lawrence. "What a swell chance
those mortars out there with their long distance telephone attachments
will have with that Queen of the Milky Way. You don't mean to say that
he is coming over here with his forty thousand tons and float around up
there five thousand feet above the Embassy?" he exclaimed as he looked
up at the ceiling with a look of alarm, as if he expected to see it
come crushing down on him at any moment. And jumping out of his chair
he ran about the room, making the most ridiculous gestures, crying:
"Air, I want air!" while Edestone laughed until the tears rolled down
his cheeks.

"But say, Bo," said Lawrence, "there is nothing to it. What do you
suppose those crazy Dutchmen are thinking about? Why I thought that sky
pirate belonged to the United States, and was now probably tied to a
dock in some mud flat, with a crew of two brass polishers and a Sunday
School teacher, while the Virginia creeper and the North Carolina
milkweed twined about it to make nests for the Dove of Peace."

"No," said Edestone, "it is what you have just called it, a Sky Pirate,
and I am the buccaneer."

"Did the Emperor know that when he got so gay with you tonight?" asked
Lawrence.

"No, he does not know that, but he knows everything else."

"Well, what is his game?"

"Well," said Edestone, after thinking for a while, "as far as I can
make it out it is this: They do not want to kill me; they are using me
to bait the trap with which they hope to catch the 'Queen of the Milky
Way,' as you call her. They will take her dead, now that they cannot
get her alive, and they hope to be able to put new life into her after
they have taken all life out with the 'long distance telephone
attachments,' as you call them."

"Why is he so certain that you will not drop bombs on his city?" asked
Lawrence.

"I do not know," replied Edestone, "unless he knows that I am more of a
gentleman than he is. Or perhaps he thinks that I will not allow any
damage to be done until I am safely on board, which may or may not be
perfectly true."

"_Tu as raison, mon vieux_," shrugged Lawrence.

"They will do nothing to me until they are certain that they are going
to lose me. They want me alive, but would rather have me dead than in
the hands of the other fellow. Now do you understand?"

"Not exactly," replied Lawrence, pretending to look very wise. "What do
you mean about taking her dead if they can't get her alive, and what
have those wires got to do with it?"

"I mean by taking her alive," said Edestone, "buying her from whoever
she belongs to, and keeping me here to show them how to run her. And
when I spoke of taking her dead, I had forgotten that you had not heard
what I said tonight while showing the pictures. I will explain this to
you sometime when we get on board and we have more time, but you will
understand enough when I tell you this."

Lawrence listened attentively as Edestone continued.

"They know that she floats by virtue of an instrument that I have; they
know that she will not float if brought in contact with the earth or if
connected with it by means of some electrical conductor. They propose
to establish an electrical connexion between her and the ground by
throwing those wires over her with mortars, just as the life-saving men
throw a life-line to a ship in distress."

"Oh, that was why they were so carefully connected with the water
main," interrupted Lawrence.

"Yes," replied Edestone, "and when they get her down they will expect
me with my instrument to float her off again."

"Well, what do you think of their chances of pulling this off?" asked
Lawrence.

"I think," said Edestone thoughtfully, "their chances are small, but
you can never tell what these very resourceful people may do. They are
buoyed up by a hopefulness that is almost uncanny and they can't all be
crazy!"


CHAPTER XXIX

THE DIFFERENCE OF THEIR STATIONS


Edestone and Lawrence sat quietly for a few minutes, Lawrence watching
him with a merry twinkle in his eye while Edestone was unconsciously
fingering the note that General von Lichtenstein had given him. Finally
he said:

"Well, I'm off for bed. I have a hard day before me tomorrow."

"Yes, you are, you old fox!" said his companion. "I'm on to you. There
is something up, and you can't hide it from me. You have been sitting
there fingering that note from--well, I guess I can pretty well call
you, because your lady friends in Berlin are limited--with the silliest
expression I have ever seen on your face. Now, out with it! You had
better get it off your chest by telling your troubles to papa."

Edestone put the note quickly into his pocket, and was about to force
through his bluff when Lawrence stopped him by saying:

"You can trust me, old man; now out with it."

"Well," said Edestone in an embarrassed tone, "General von Lichtenstein
did give me a note from Princess Wilhelmina," showing it to Lawrence.

"My dear fellow," Lawrence said, "what do you propose to do? If you are
going to take a chance for the pleasure of seeing a beautiful woman, I
am with you heart and soul; but if you are taking a chance because you
believe she is sincerely in distress and calling on you, an American
here in Berlin, when she's got all of those becorseted Johnnies around
her, you had better allow me to advise you."

"I am perfectly willing to take a chance," cried Edestone in an angry
tone, "if you choose to call it that, because I have absolute confidence
in her."

"Say, Jack, I think you are beginning to get a little bit soft on the
Princess. You may be all right when it comes to straight electricity,
but I think you will admit that I have had more experience in this kind
of animal magnetism than you. She is certainly a snappy little
induction coil."

"Lawrence, please don't," said Edestone.

"Well, you don't know perfectly well, Jack, that General von
Lichtenstein would not have delivered that note from a Princess of the
house of Windthorst to you, a low-born American plebeian, unless it was
part of their scheme. Why it's as much as his life is worth, if it is as
you believe it to be," and he gave Edestone a knowing look.

"Now, cut that out, Lawrence," said Edestone in a decided tone. "Do not
think for one moment that I have any illusions as far as that young lady
is concerned. She is evidently in trouble of some kind, and the fact
that she is so young offsets that of her being a Princess."

Lawrence shrugged his shoulders, and occupied himself smoking while
Edestone continued:

"I think that General von Lichtenstein thinks she is working for them,
but I am just fool enough to think that she is not. In fact, I know she
is not, but even if she were, I would like to show those people that I
will not allow them to sacrifice her dignity and compromise herself in
her own eyes even for them, so I am going, if for no other reason than
to keep her from doing something which she may some day deeply
regret. I'm off. If you want some excitement, why you might drop into
some of the clubs and feel out the officers."

"Ah," said Lawrence, "that is a good idea. I will be just about as
popular as a baby rabbit in a litter of foxes."

"And you can enjoy watching them as they sit around, licking their
chops," interjected Edestone, "as they think of the dainty morsel you
will make when they eat you alive tomorrow. Be careful. We want no
false steps, and there are some pretty skittish ponies in the Emperor's
stable. He can hold in check his plough horses, but these young
thoroughbreds are getting nervous at the post."

"Well," said Lawrence, "I never was very strong for these Prussians, but
they made a hit with me tonight in the way in which they started for
you. They were a pretty fine looking lot of handsome young chaps," and
curling an imaginary moustache, he continued: "Almost as good as our
eleven of 1903," and they both stood and toasted grand old Harvard, and
he was leaving the room singing, "Here's to dear old Harvard, drink her
down!" when Edestone called him back and said:

"Lawrence, get one of the Embassy automobiles and I will drop you on the
way."

Edestone, whereas he knew that his movements were being watched and that
this meeting had been arranged, if not by the German General Staff, by
some of its female lieutenants, was determined to show them that he did
not intend to compromise this little Princess by calling upon her at
that hour of the night in a secretive manner.

All was perfectly quiet in the streets, and the automobile was allowed
to pass without interruption. When he arrived at the Palace he imagined
that the coast had been cleared for him, for on entering he discovered
that there was some sort of an entertainment going on, which would have
necessitated the presence of waiting automobiles on the outside, which
were conspicuous by their absence.

He was evidently expected, and was immediately conducted to a small
room. He could hear music and laughter in another part of the Palace,
but saw no one except the flunkeys in the hall.

The room into which he was shown was evidently one of those used by the
family in their home life, as was shown by the papers, books, and fancy
work lying about.

The situation would ordinarily have been most amusing to him, and had he
not been so occupied with such serious matters, and had there been less
of a difference in their ages and social positions, he would have
enjoyed the excitement of a mysterious rendezvous with this extremely
charming and attractive young woman.

He was thoroughly conscious of her attractions, and though he might have
denied the necessity of this, in thinking of her he always kept before
his mind the fable of the fox and the sour grapes.

He was kept waiting for about fifteen minutes, and he began to wonder if
the whole thing had not been arranged, and would not have been surprised
if when the door quietly opened he had seen von Lichtenstein or even the
Emperor himself instead of a very much frightened little woman.

She was apparently supported by sheer will power and the pride of the
Princess, which she had inherited from her long line of ancestors,
extending back into the unwritten pages of history.

She was dressed so simply that the lines of her most graceful little
figure were perfectly revealed, but with such modesty that though she
followed the dictates of the modern fashions, which leave little to the
imagination, the effect upon Edestone was that of reverence in the
presence of such youth and innocence.

To him she seemed to be draped in some soft silky material, and though
her neck and arms were bare, they were enveloped in a shimmer of tulle,
which she held about her as if for protection. Her hair, parted in the
middle, was flatly dressed, and held close to her small head by a little
band of jewels which encircled it and crossed her low white brow.

She was perfectly calm, dignified, and had herself well in hand. There
was an expression upon her face of resolution, and as if to help, she
assumed a more royal and dignified bearing than he had ever supposed she
was capable of.

She had evidently been crying, but her voice was steady and rather
haughty in its tone as she said, giving him her hand:

"I am glad that you have come."

Edestone took it gently in his own, and bowing, scarcely touched it with
his lips, but when he felt its icy touch, and caught the faint perfume,
he felt a thrill, and for a moment he forgot that he was in the presence
of a Royal Princess, who looked upon him as something a little bit
better than a servant, and not as good as the most miserable Count that
ever wore a paper collar or passed a fraudulent check at the Newport
Reading Room.

Recovering himself quickly, however, he dropped her hand and stood in an
attitude of deep respect, but not until she had caught the look that he
had given her.

Not daring to look up at her for fear of her indignation at his
presumption, he busied himself arranging the cushions in a seat for her.

Raising her hand to her throat, which had moved convulsively, she
watched him with a quiet little smile, as if waiting to finish the
deadly work which she, young as she was, knew that she had started. Like
a great ring general, she did not intend to allow her adversary time to
recover before she administered the _coup de grace_.

When he recovered sufficiently to allow himself to look at her, although
he resolved to keep strictly to the object of their meeting, he was so
struck with her great charm that he could not resist saying:

"I sincerely hope, Princess, that you will pardon me if I take the great
liberty of saying to you that you are looking extremely beautiful
tonight."

She answered with a smile.

And then in a light and frivolous tone, and looking at her in a manner
which she could not misunderstand, with the deepest respect he added:

"If I were a Prince and a few years younger, I would humbly kneel and
worship at your shrine, Princess."

A cloud passed over her face, but recovering, with a look which if
Edestone had been younger and less sensible would have finished him:

"Well, Mr. Edestone," she smiled coquettishly, "I understand that you
were tonight a match for an Emperor; and I am feeling very old myself."

With a smile acknowledging her condescension in allowing this slight
exchange of repartee, he assumed a fatherly air, and said, having
recovered himself entirely:

"Now, my dear and very sweet little Princess, your very old and most
humble servant awaits your orders. The only reward that he expects is
that he be allowed to see you one or two times before he dies of old
age, or you are seated on a throne."

With an impatient gesture, and an almost imperceptible stamp of her
little foot, she said:

"Please don't talk that way. I hate being a Princess, and the way you
say it makes me hate myself," and with a quick glance and a tone of
great seriousness: "I don't think you are so old as all that.

"I have sent for you," changing her voice, "to warn you again. It was
absolutely necessary in order to arrange this meeting to lead them to
believe that I was willing to do that which you must hate me for--use my
power as a woman to persuade you to give up the position which you have
taken, and though I hate them all for it, in order to save you from
certain death I have compromised myself in my own eyes, and have done
that which will cause you to hate me."

"That I could never do," said Edestone, which brought a faint smile to
her lips. "Princess, I appreciate more deeply than I can say your great
kindness, and if there is anything that I can do which will save you
from these people when they find that you have failed in your
undertaking, you can command me. Your warning, however, comes as no
surprise to me; but I appreciate it none the less."

"Could I not hold out to them," she anticipated, "that you had agreed to
reveal this secret to me, and in that way gain time, and you might be
able to get out of Berlin?"

"But what would become of you when they discovered that you had played
them false?" asked Edestone. And then, as if hesitating to refer to the
delicacy of her position, an English Princess in Berlin, he added: "They
are relentless, and they might suspect you of playing into the hands of
England. No, Princess, there is but one thing for you to do, and that is
to say that I declined absolutely and entirely to consider any
proposition of any kind.

"If you were in any way associated with me in what I have already done
and what I propose to do, I should not be willing to leave you in
Berlin, and though I know you are absolutely sincere in your intentions
to assist me in my work, there is no possible way for me to protect you
other than by taking you with me, which is absolutely out of the
question. You would not be safe even in the American Embassy."

She thought for a while, and then, as if an idea had struck her, she
said blushingly:

"My mother, like myself, is perfectly loyal to England, and if as I
understand it is the intention of the American Government to come out on
the side of the Allies, would there be any impropriety in my going with
her to the Embassy and taking my chances with the Secretary's family?"

"That would be impossible," said Edestone. "They have taken you into
their confidence, and would not allow you to leave the country. I think
mine is the only plan. Say to them that I would listen to no
proposition, and allow me to go and take my chances."

He could not trust himself, and he knew his only hope of keeping her
esteem was in getting out before she discovered his real secret, and
rising in a most dignified manner he kissed her hand, and then allowing
himself to press it gently to his cheek for a moment, left the room
abruptly, while she sank into a seat and covered her face with her
hands.


CHAPTER XXX

THEY CALL FOR ASSISTANCE


The next morning everything was perfectly quiet on the outside of the
Embassy. The soldiers had apparently settled down for a siege. They
contented themselves with singing hymns and drinking songs, and with
mock reverence rendering the "Star Spangled Banner," closely followed by
the "Marseillaise," and "It's a Long Way to Tipperary."

But there was mutiny within the walls. Mrs. Jones had flatly refused to
leave the Embassy. She said that she had not the slightest idea of
going up in Jack's foolish flying machine, to be shot at by the soldiers
or dropped into the middle of the ocean; that for her part she intended
to stay exactly where she was. The Secretary might go if he wished to
risk his life in a balloon or if it was his duty, but she thought she
was safer in the Embassy. She was perfectly sure that the Germans would
not dare to shoot at it while the United States flag was flying over it,
and there were women inside.

The Secretary seemed to agree with her, and said: "It was only on your
account, my dear, that I was going. As long as the flag flies above this
roof, my duty is here, and I sincerely hope that you are right."

"But we are now at war with these people," said Edestone, "and they may
take it into their heads to shoot that flag away, and they have plainly
shown that they will kill and burn women and children if in their
judgment one single point, however small, can be gained in their
national game of war. It is a ruling passion with them, and they think
that all of the nicer feelings of honour, humanity, and even religion
must be crushed, and that these sentiments are foolish and are for women
and weaklings only."

At which Mrs. Jones seemed worried. She preferred, however, she said, to
stay and take a chance rather than go to certain death with Edestone.

"I think," said he, "that if we were dealing with any of the other
civilized nations, the Embassy would be perfectly safe, even if war had
been declared or forced upon us without any formal declaration, but with
the Germans in their present state of nerves, it is quite
different. They have a strange method of retaliation, not for an injury
to themselves, but for the failure on their part to inflict one upon
others, which can only be accounted for by their savage passion for
revenge. The real danger, however, will be before this while they are
trying to prevent my escape."

The Secretary was anxious to remain at his post as long as possible, so
he was glad to side with Mrs. Jones. Lawrence begged for and obtained
permission to go with Edestone.

"You can take absolutely nothing in the way of luggage," said
Edestone. "I can fit you out when we get on board. I have just told
Black, Stanton, and James the same thing, and I suppose your boy would
like to go with you also."

"Certainly," said Lawrence.

With no preparations to make, there was nothing to do but wait. Lawrence
was the only one who was willing to go out on the streets and stand the
ugly looks that were given by all those who in some way or another knew
that they were Americans.

On his return he reported that the papers were silent on the subject of
the Kaiser's call at the Embassy the night before. One of the afternoon
papers, he said, did report that a very large Zeppelin had been seen
flying over Berne at 9 o'clock in the morning, at about 5000 feet,
judging by her size. At first it was thought that she was on fire from
the clouds of smoke that she was emitting, but she continued on her way
in the direction of Berlin at about fifty miles an hour. She was up too
high, the papers stated, to be identified, but as the Swiss Government
knew that none of the Allies had Zeppelins, it was suggested that a
protest would soon come from Switzerland for a violation of her
neutrality.

Lawrence said that evidently the German General Staff had received some
information, for he found no officers at the Club, and troops with
anti-aircraft guns and mortars with their two-wheeled trailers were
moving in all directions.

The general public, however, as usual, seemed to have no information,
and were going about their duties in their usual stolid manner.

The troops around the Embassy had been reinforced and were showing great
activity. He thought that the Kaiser was making a personal inspection
judging by the number of high officers he saw going and coming.

The soldiers were most insulting in their manner and kept him moving,
and would not allow him to go anywhere near the mortars which were
stripped for action. The covers over the two-wheeled drums were
unstrapped so that they could be thrown off at a moment's notice.

"You are right," said Edestone, as he and Lawrence stood looking out of
one of the windows of the Embassy at about 5 o'clock in the afternoon.
"They have heard something. I am surprised that we have heard nothing
from them today. You can depend upon it, they will try to get me without
an actual fight. They know that they can bamboozle our Government, but
fear the temper of our people will not stand for any killing, which they
certainly intend to do if necessary. I do wish Mrs. Jones was not here.

"If 'Specs' was over Berne at 9 o'clock," he went on, "and he wanted to,
he could have been here hours ago. He is evidently jogging along
slowly. He cannot now be more than fifty miles away; he is perhaps just
about at Leipsic. I think we had better speak to him and tell him to go
higher up and not to come over Berlin before dark. You know he does not
know what is going on here. I am afraid to warn him about the wires,
for if by chance they should intercept our message they would know that
they had struck a very good answer to my 'Little Peace Maker.'"

"You don't mean to say," cried Lawrence, "that there is any chance of
their pulling you down with those wires?"

"It all depends," replied Edestone. "It would take me some time to
calculate the amount of metal it would require to take the current that
would wreck us, but if they do get that amount in contact with us and
the earth at the same time we will come down."

"My God!" said Lawrence.

"Well, that is the reason that I do not want to take any chance by
mentioning wires at all. They don't know now that one wire will not do
the trick, and if they get the idea that it is a question of the largest
possible number, they will double up on us. As it is, they have sixteen,
and we have a fighting chance. At any rate, I will speak to 'Specs' and
tell him not to come over the Embassy until after dark."

"Won't he have some difficulty in finding the Embassy?" asked Lawrence.

Edestone laughed. "You do not know old 'Specs.' In the first place he
studied for six years in Berlin and knows it from end to end. Besides,
he has all of the cities of Europe plotted, and he can get his bearings
from a dozen different points. He will feel very badly unless Capt. Lee
puts him within a few inches of where his calculations tell him he
should be. Why, you should see him calculating! He used a 6 H pencil,
and he can cover a large sheet of paper with microscopic figures before
you have even sharpened yours! It will be just like 'Specs,' if it is a
still night, to drop a plumb line and check himself. When you see him
coming down slowly, you can be sure that he is going to drop his ladder
at exactly the right spot.

"You see to it that the servants are all out of the way. If necessary,
lock them all down in the basement. I will work out the message."

When Lawrence returned and stated that everything was clear, Edestone
said to him: "Send this. It says:

  "Stand by at 50, up 10,000. After dark follow orders. If called
  come quickly.'"

They then took the elevator and went together to the roof, where with
powerful glasses they searched the south-western sky. On all sides they
could see Taubes, which like great birds were circling in all
directions.

Edestone was startled by seeing something that looked like the "Little
Peace Maker," but it turned out to be one of the largest German
Zeppelins.

"Why, my boy," laughed Lawrence, "Captain Lee could make that fellow
look like an _ante bellum_ picnic in a thunderstorm, all hoop
skirts and bombazine, before Count Zeppelin could get it under the
shelter tent.

"It is circling now," he exclaimed; "he must have his eye on a Belgium
baby, the old buzzard!"

After Edestone had gotten Lawrence to his wireless instrument by first
running the car down until the top was at the level of the roof, and
after Lawrence had stepped on running it up to the top of the penthouse,
he then dropped the car down and came out on the roof again.

He looked about with his glasses; and was not surprised to see soldiers
on the roofs of the other buildings where they had stationed powerful
anti-aircraft guns and searchlights.

"I am rather glad Mrs. Jones is not coming with us," he thought. "It is
going to be pretty hot here for a little while. We shall be under fire
for about ten feet; Captain Lee will not dare come down any closer."

When Lawrence came down, he said: "I got him and he answered me. I am
sure someone was trying to cut in. I could not tell whether he could get
us or not, but he was trying to mix us up."

Edestone worked with his little book for a few minutes, and then read
aloud:

  "Passed over Leipsic up 5000. Have been seen. Will stand by at 30,
  up 10,000."

"That means that he is about over Dessau, and could get here in fifteen
minutes easily if called. So far so good. But those machine guns are
worrying me. I did not want to make any show of force, but self
protection may drive me to it.

"Run the elevator down, Lawrence, and come back by the stairs. We can
walk down. I want to look over my ground and plan my campaign."

"How foolish," he thought, "not to have remembered the machine guns on
the roofs. The only protection we have on the Embassy are the chimneys
and the penthouse, and they will protect only halfway up the landing
ladder. There is always that ten feet in which we will be exposed on all
sides to a fire under which nothing could live for half a minute."

He then examined the door to the bulkhead at the head of the stairs. It
was strong, but there was no way to fasten it on the outside. There was
another door at the bottom of the stairs that could be locked, but it
was an ordinary door and could easily be broken down. He found only one
place on the entire roof where there was what might be called a zone of
safety, and that was by no means perfectly safe.

He carefully worked out the plan of defence, giving to his enemy the
part to play which he thought they would naturally take.

When Lawrence came up he explained his plan to him. He said: "When they
see that we are attempting to escape by the roof, they will rush us by
coming up those stairs. I do not intend to allow my men to fire unless
it is absolutely necessary."

"Oh, just shoot me one little one," begged Lawrence.

Edestone frowned disapprovingly. "When they have broken through the
lower door, we can stand here between the penthouse and the chimneys,
and by keeping down below the parapet be comparatively safe. I will then
tell them that I have a machine gun trained on the bulkhead door, and
that it will be certain death for them to attempt to come out that
way. If they fire on the Embassy, I will order my large guns to silence
every gun that bears on it."

As they went downstairs the sun was just setting.


CHAPTER XXXI

"SIT DOWN, YOU DOG!"


As Edestone and Lawrence were coming down the stairs they were met by
one of the German servants, who told them in a rather excited manner
that the Secretary wished to see them both in his library.

Hastening down they were surprised as they arrived in the main hall to
see through the iron and glass grille a squad of German soldiers
standing at the front door.

"This is their last card," said Edestone in an undertone, "and if it
fails there is nothing left for them to do but kill me. They have
received word from Leipsic and they know that there is no time to lose,
so we can look out now for anything. You had better get our party
together, Lawrence, and see that every man has a pistol. There are two
automatics in my room. When you get back, if you find me standing, or if
I rise, or if I light a cigar, make some excuse and get up to the roof
as quickly as you can and send your S. O. S. call to 'Specs.' He can be
here in fifteen minutes after he receives it. Then, lock that grille and
station someone there you can trust."

"I wonder what they'll charge me with?" he thought as alone he entered
the room where the Secretary was sitting calmly, although Edestone could
see that he was making a great effort not to show his indignation to the
German officer who was standing in front of him.

Edestone knew him so well that when he saw his mouth fixed as though he
was whistling quietly to himself, the forefinger of his right hand at
his lips as if to assist him in his musical efforts,--he who could not
turn a tune,--he knew that Jones had himself well in hand. In his left
hand the Secretary held a formal-looking paper with which he was quietly
tapping the table in front of him as though keeping time to his
soundless and imaginary ditty. With his chin well down, he was looking
from under his heavy eyebrows with eyes that were dangerously cold.

The officer who had delivered these papers was apparently waiting for
his answer and stood very erect, looking straight ahead of him. He did
not change his position or notice Edestone as he entered the room.

"Good-morning, Count von Hemelstein," said Edestone on seeing who it
was, and the soldier then condescended to acknowledge the greeting with
a slight bow.

The Secretary leaned forward, and putting both hands flat on the table
while looking straight at Count von Hemelstein, said in a rather
judicial tone, as though delivering an opinion from the bench:

"Mr. Edestone, Count von Hemelstein has just delivered to me an order
for your arrest on the charge of giving assistance to the enemies of
Germany. He also charges Lawrence Stuyvesant with insulting the
Emperor's uniform and his dignity by impersonating a Prince of the Royal
Blood and rendering that Prince ridiculous. He states, however, in your
case that the Emperor will accept your explanation if you will accompany
Count von Hemelstein quietly and make it to His Imperial Majesty in
person. In the case of Lawrence Stuyvesant, he demands an apology and
has paroled him in my custody until this is received, and as in the
first case he makes a further condition, which is that the Emperor will
accept an apology made by Lawrence Stuyvesant to the Prince himself,
provided only that you agree to accompany Count von Hemelstein quietly
and at once."

Then turning as if addressing a prisoner on trial before him he said, in
that soft and quiet voice always assumed by a judge in speaking to a
criminal, even though he knows that the culprit has just boiled his
mother:

"In the case against you, Mr. Edestone, in your absence I have flatly
denied the charge. In the case against Lawrence Stuyvesant I deny all
knowledge of, and decline to express an opinion until I have had an
opportunity of looking into, the circumstances of the alleged offence."

Edestone who had stood during this went over and took a seat at the
Secretary's side of the table. "It is just as you said it would be," he
observed to the Count with a mocking laugh as he passed him. "You
Germans are so thorough."

The Count made no reply, only stiffening up, if it were possible to give
any more of that quality of German militarism to a ramrod in human form.

He stood as if expecting the Secretary to continue, or to hear further
from Edestone, but both men sat perfectly still looking at him. "Yes."

"You--you like me better than any other fellow in the school?"
"Yes; better than any other fellow in the world."
"Is it possible?"
"I have always felt that way since--yes--since the very first
minute I saw you."

"How rum! I've forgotten just where we did meet--for the first time."

"I shall never forget," said John, in the same slow, deliberate
fashion, never taking his eyes from Desmond's face.

Ever since he had sung, he had known that this moment was coming. "I
shall never forget it," he repeated--"never.

You were standing near the Chapel. I was poking about alone, trying to
find the shop where we buy our straws. And I was feeling as all
new boys feel, only more so, because I didn't know a soul."
"Yes," said Desmond, gravely; "you told me that. I remember now; I mistook
you for young Hardacre."
"You smiled at me, Cæsar. It warmed me through and through. I suppose
that when a fellow is starving he never forgets the first meal after
it."
"I say. Go on; this is awfully interesting."
"I can remember what you wore. One of your bootlaces had burst----"
"Well; I'm----"
"I had a wild sort of wish to run off and buy you a new lace----"
"Of all the rum starts I----"
"Afterwards," John continued, "I tried to suck-up. I asked you to come
and have some 'food.'

Do you remember?"
"I'll bet I came, Jonathan."

"No; you didn't. You said 'No.'"
"Dash it all! I certainly said, 'No thanks.'"
"I dare say; but the 'No' hurt awfully because I did feel that it
was cheek asking you."
"Jonathan, you funny old buster, I'll never say 'No' again.

'Pon my word, I won't. So I said 'No.' That's odd, because it's not
easy for me to say 'No.'

The governor pointed that out last hols. Somehow, I can't say 'No,'
particularly if there's any excitement in saying 'Yes.' And my beastly
'No' hurt, did it? Well, I'm very, _very_ sorry."

He held out his hand, which John took. Then, for a moment, there was a
pause before Desmond continued awkwardly--
"You know, Jonathan, that the Demon is my pal. You like him better than
you did, don't you?"
John had the tact not to speak; but he shook his head dolefully.

"And I couldn't chuck him, even if I wanted to, which I don't--which I
don't," he repeated, with an air of satisfying himself rather than
John.

And John divined that Scaife's hold upon Desmond's affections was not
so strong as he had deemed it to be. Desmond continued, "But I want you,
too, old Jonathan, and if--if----"
"All right," said John, nobly. He perceived that Desmond's loyalty to
Scaife made him hesitate and flush. "I understand, Cæsar, and if I can't
be first, let me be second; only, remember, with me you're first,
rain or shine."

Desmond looked uneasy. "Isn't that a case of 'heads I win, tails
you lose'?"

John considered; then he smiled cheerfully, "You know you are a winner,
Cæsar. You're cut out for a winner; you can win whatever you want to
win."
"Oh, that's all rot," said Desmond.

He looked very grave, and in his eyes lay shadows which John had
never seen before.

And so ended John's first year at Harrow.

FOOTNOTES:

[25] All Public Houses are out of bounds.

CHAPTER VII
_Reform_
"'It must be a gran' thing to be a colledge profissor.'
"'Not much to do,' said Mr. Hennessy.

"'But a gr--reat deal to say,' said Mr. Dooley."

When John returned to the Hill at the beginning of the winter term the
great change had taken place. Rutford had assumed the duties of
Professor of Greek at a Scotch University; Warde was in possession of the
Manor; Scaife and Desmond and John--but not the Caterpillar--had got
their remove. They were Fifth Form boys--and in tails! John, it is true,
although tougher and broader, was still short for his years and juvenile
of appearance, but Scaife and Desmond were quite big fellows, and their
new coats became them mightily. Trieve was Head of the House; Lovell,
Captain of the House football Eleven and in the Lower Sixth.

"Lovell will have to behave himself now," the Duffer remarked to Scaife,
who laughed derisively, as he answered--
"He couldn't, even if he tried."
Warde welcomed the House at lock-up, and introduced the boys to his wife
and daughter. Mrs. Warde had a plain, pleasant face. Miss Warde, however,
was a beauty, and she knew it, the coquette, and had known it from the
hour she could peep into a mirror.

The Caterpillar pronounced her "fetching." Being only fifteen, she wore
her hair in a plait tied by a huge bow, and the hem of her skirt
barely touched the neatest ankle on Harrow Hill. Give her a saucy,
pink-and-white face, pop a pert, tip-tilted nose into the middle of
it just above a pouting red mouth, and just below her father's
lapis-lazuli eyes, and you will see Iris Warde. Her hair was reddish,
not red--call it warm chestnut; and she had a dimple.

After the introductions, mother and daughter left the hall. Warde
stood up, inviting the House to sit down. Warde was about half the
width of the late Rutford, but somehow he seemed to take up more
room.

He had spent the summer holidays in Switzerland, climbing terrific peaks.
Snow and sun had coloured his clear complexion. John, who saw beneath
tanned skins, reflected that Warde seemed to be saturated with fresh
air and all the sweet, clean things which one associates with mountains.
"He loves hills," thought John, "and he loves our Hill." Warde began
to speak in his jerky, confidential tones. Dirty Dick had always been
insufferably dull, pompous, and didactic.

"I don't like speechmaking," said Warde, "but I want to put one thing
to you as strongly as a man may. I have always wished to be master of
the Manor. Some men may think mine a small ambition. Master of a house
at Harrow?

Nothing big about that. Perhaps not. But I think it big. And it is
big--for me. Understand that I'm in love with my job--head over
heels. I'd sooner be master of the Manor than Prime Minister. I couldn't
tackle his work. Enough of that. Now, forget for a moment that I'm a
master.

Let me talk as an Old Harrovian, an old Manorite who remembers
everything, ay--everything, good and bad. Some lucky fellows remember the
good only; we call them optimists. Others remember the bad.
Pessimists those.

Put me between the two. The other day I had an eye, _one_ eye, fixed on
the top of a certain peak--by Jove! how I longed to reach that peak!--but
the other eye was on a _crevasse_ at my feet.

Had I kept both eyes on the peak, I should be lying now at the bottom
of that _crevasse_. You take me? Well, twenty years ago I sat
here, in hall, my last night in the old house, and I hoped that
one day I might come back. Why? This is between ourselves, a confidence.
I came to the Manor from a beastly school, such schools are hardly to be
found nowadays--a hardened young sinner at thirteen. The Manor licked
me into shape. Speaking generally, I suppose the tone of the house
insensibly communicated itself to me.

The Manor was cock-house at games and work. I began by shirking both.
But the spirit of the Hill was too much for me.

I couldn't shirk that. Some jolly old boys, we all know them and like
them, are always saying that their early school-days were the happiest
of their lives. They're fond of telling this big lie just as they're
settling down to their claret. I really believe that they believe what
they say, but it _is_ a lie. The smallest boy here knows it's a
lie.
Let's hark back a bit. I said I was licked into shape--and I mean _licked_.
I had a lot of really hard fagging--much harder than any of you boys
know--I was sent up and swished, I had whoppings innumerable, and
it wasn't pleasant.

My mother had pinched herself to send me here, because my father had
been here before me; and I wondered why she did it. At that time I
couldn't see why cheaper schools shouldn't be not only as good as
Harrow, but perhaps better. Not till I was in the Fifth did I get a
glimmering of what my mother and the Manor were doing for me. When I
got into the Sixth and into the Eleven, I knew.

And my last year here made up, and more, too, for the previous four.
I enjoyed that year thoroughly; I had ceased to be a slacker. I tell
you, all of you, that happiness, like liberty, must be earned
before we can enjoy it. And you are sent here to earn it. I'm not going
to keep you much longer. I have come to the marrow of the matter. I
owe the Manor a debt which I hope to pay to--you.

Just as you, in turn, will pay back to boys not yet born the money your
people have gladly spent on you, and other greater things besides.

I want to see this house at the top of the tree again:
cock-house at cricket, cock-house at footer, with a Balliol Scholar
in it, and a school racquet-player.

And now Dumbleton is going to bring in a little champagne. We'll drink
high health and fellowship to the Manor and the Hill!"
His face broke into the smile his form knew so well; he sat down, as the
house roared its welcome to a friend.

As soon as the champagne was drunk ("Dumber" was careful to put more
froth than wine into the glasses of the kids), the boys filed out of
the Hall. The Duffer, Desmond, John, and the Caterpillar assembled in
John's room. Desmond, you may be sure, was afire with resolution. Warde
was the right sort, a clinker, a first flighter. And he meant to stick
by him through thick and thin. John said nothing. The Caterpillar drawled
out--
"Warde didn't surprise me--much. I've found out that he's one of the
Wardes of Warde-Pomeroy, the real old stuff. Our families intermarried
in Elizabeth's reign."
"Chance to do it again, Caterpillar," said the Duffer. "Warde's daughter
is an uncommonly pretty girl."

Then the Caterpillar used the epithet "fetching."
"She's fetching, very fetching," he said. "It's a pleasure to remember
that we're of kin. One must be civil to Warde. He's a well bred 'un."

"You think too much of family," said Desmond.

"_One can't_," replied the Caterpillar, solemnly.

"One knows that family is not everything, but, other things being
equal, it means refinement.
The first of the Howards was a swineherd, I dare say, but generations
of education, of association with the best, have turned them from
swine-herds into gentlemen, and it takes generations to do it."

"Good old Caterpillar!" said the Duffer.

"Not my own," said the Caterpillar; adding, as usual, "My governor's, you
know."
"Warde hasn't a soft job ahead of him," said Desmond.

"Soft or hard, he'll handle it his own way."
Desmond went out, wondering what had become of Scaife.

Scaife was in his room, talking to Lovell senior, who spent a
fortnight with Scaife's people in Scotland, fishing and grousing.

Desmond had been asked also, but his father, rather to Cæsar's disgust
(for the Scaife moor was famous), had refused to let him go. Lovell and
Scaife were arguing about something which Desmond could not understand.

"I left it to my partner," said Scaife, "and the fool went no trumps
holding two missing suits. The enemy doubled, my partner redoubled, and
the others redoubled again: that made it ninety-six a trick. The fellow
on the left held my partner's missing suits; he made the Little Slam,
and scored nearly six hundred below the line.

It gave 'em the rubber, too, and I had to fork out a couple of quid."
"What are you jawing about, Demon?" said Desmond.

"Bridge. It's the new game. It's going to be the rage. Do you play bridge,
Cæsar?"

"No. I want to learn it."
"All right, I must teach you."
"We could get up a four in this house," said Lovell.

"We three and the Caterpillar. He plays, I know. The Colonel is one of
the cracks at the Turf. It would be an awful lark.

A mild gamble: small points--eh? A bob a hundred. What do you say,
Cæsar?"

Desmond hesitated. Bridge had not yet reached its delirious stage. But
Desmond had seen it played, had heard his father praise it as the most
fascinating of card-games, and had determined to learn it at the first
convenient opportunity. None the less Warde's words still echoed in
his ear.

"I think we ought to give Warde a chance," he said.

"You don't mean to say you were taken in by him?"

said Lovell, contemptuously.

Desmond burst into enthusiastic praise of Warde and his methods.

Lovell shrugged his shoulders and walked out of the room, nodding to
Scaife, but ignoring Desmond.

"You must go canny with Lovell," said Scaife. "He's the fellow who ought
to give you your 'fez' after the first house-game."

"Never mind that. You won't play bridge, Demon, will you?"

"Why not?" said Scaife. "Where's the harm? Your governor plays----"
"Yes; but----"

"You're afraid of getting sacked?"
"I'm not."

"All right; I'll take that back.

You're not a funk, Cæsar, but you're so easily humbugged.

Warde caught you with his 'pi jaw' and a glass of gooseberry."
"The champagne was all right, wasn't it?"
"Oh, ho! So you do mean to stand in with Warde against Lovell and
me?
Thanks for being so candid. Now I'll be candid with you.

I like Lovell.

There's no nonsense about him. He don't put on frills because he's
in the Sixth, and he don't mean to take to their sneaking, spying
ways.

He's just as anxious as Warde to see the Manor cock-house at footer
and cricket, and I'm as keen as he is; but we stop there.

The Balliol Scholarship may go hang.

And as for sympathy and fellowship and pulling together between masters
and boys, I never did believe in it, and never shall.

My hand is against the masters, so long as they interfere with anything
I want to do. I like bridge, and I mean to play it. And I'll take jolly
good care that I'm not nailed.

That's part of the fun, as the drinking used to be. I chucked that because
it wasn't good enough; but bridge is ripping, and, take my word for it,
you'll be keener than I when you begin."

"Perhaps. But I'm not going to begin here."
"Right--oh!"

Scaife turned aside, whistling, but out of the corner of his shrewd eye
he marked the expression of Desmond's face, the colour ebbing and
flowing in the round, boyish cheeks, the perplexity on the brow.

Then he spoke in a different voice.

"Don't worry, old chap.

You've stuck to me through thick and thin, and I'm grateful, really and
truly. You're right, and I'm wrong; I always am wrong.

I was looking forward to larks. If you count 'em purple sins, I don't blame
you for letting me go to the devil by myself."

"I never said bridge was a purple sin."
"Warde thinks it is. If you're going to look at life here with his eyes,
you'll have to rename things. Babies play Beggar my Neighbour for
chocolates; why shouldn't we play bridge for a bob a hundred?

The game is splendid for the brain; ten thousand times better than
translating Greek choruses."

"But it is--gambling, Demon; you can't get away from that."
"Pooh!

It's gambling if I bet you a 'dringer' that you won't make ten runs in a
house-match; it's gambling if I raffle a picture and you take a
sixpenny ticket.

Are you going to give up that sort of gambling?"
"No; but----"
"What would Warde say to our co-operative system of work--eh? You're
not prepared to go the whole hog? You want to pick and choose. Good!
But give me the same right, that's all. Play bridge with your old
pals, or don't play, just as you please."
No more was said. Scaife's manner rather than his matter confounded
the younger and less experienced boy. Scaife, too, tackled problems
which many men prefer to leave alone. Here heredity cropped up.
Scaife's sire and grandsire were earning their bread before they
were sixteen. Of necessity they faced and overcame obstacles which
the ordinary Public School-boy never meets till he leaves the
University.
For some time after this bridge was not mentioned. Lovell, acting,
possibly, under advice from Scaife, treated Desmond courteously,
and gave him his "fez" after the first house-game. Both boys now
were members of the Manor cricket and football Elevens, and, as
such, persons of distinction in their small world. Scaife, moreover,
began to play football with such extraordinary dash and brilliancy,
that it seemed to be quite on the cards that he might get his School
Flannels. This possibility, and the Greek in the Fifth, absorbed
his energies for the first six weeks of the winter quarter. John
had come back to Scaife's room to prepare work. Desmond felt that
Scaife had been generous in proposing that John should join them,
because in many small ways it had become evident that the Demon
disliked John, although he still spoke of the tight place out of
which John had hauled him. Through Scaife John received his "fez";
and when John wore it for the first time, Scaife came up and said,
smiling-- 
"I'm nearly even with you, Verney."
"What do you mean?" said John.
"You know well enough what I mean," said Scaife, winking his eye
maliciously.
John flushed, because in his heart he did know. But when he told
Egerton what Scaife had said, that experienced man of the world
turned up his nose.
"Just like him," he said. "He wants you to feel that he has wiped
out his debt."
"Do you think my 'fez' ought to have been given to young Lovell?"

The Caterpillar, who played back for the Manor, considered the
question.
"I don't know," he said. "You are pretty nearly equal; but it's a
fact that the Demon turned the scale. He pointed out to Lovell that
if he gave a 'fez' to his young brother, the house might accuse him
of favouritism. That did the trick."
This made John uneasy and unhappy for a week or two; but the
consciousness that another might be better entitled to the coveted
"fez" made him play up with such energy that he succeeded in proving
to all critics that he had honestly earned what luck had bestowed
on him.We have no time to lose."

In the same quick, authoritative tone, he issued his orders to the
others, as they stood staring at the news, each in his different way
showing his breeding. Black was commencing to whine; Stanton with a
scowl of rage was in sympathy with Lawrence; while James, demonstrating
his years of training, stood statue-like with hand behind his back,
leaning forward as if to catch his master's next order, and carry it out
with perfect decorum.

"Have you locked the door at the foot of the stairs? Ah! That is good!"
he exclaimed, as he saw that they had barricaded the door of the
bulkhead by putting a piece of timber between it and the coping around
one of the skylights.

It had grown quite dark in the interval, but in the glare of the great
searchlights which were playing upon her he could plainly see above him
the Little Peace Maker which had swung into a position directly over the
Embassy, and was now slowly descending.

She was not over a thousand feet above the roof as she hung there, three
of her great searchlights bearing steadily on three different points in
the city, and giving to her the aspect of an enormous spyglass standing
on its gigantic tripod, and by its own weight forcing the feet of the
tripod into the soft earth, as the ship slowly settled.

Shrapnel shells were exploding all about her, and at times she was
almost entirely enveloped in smoke. Between the reports of the heavier
artillery could be heard the staccato spatter of bullets on her iron
sides as the machine-guns sprayed her from end to end. Now and then one
of the gunners would reach one of her searchlights, and as the ray was
extinguished, one almost expected to see her topple in the direction of
her broken support, but in each case it was quickly replaced by another,
and she continued to drop nearer and nearer to the earth.

Excepting for the searchlights there was no sign of life on
board. Silently and without response of any kind, she came. But as she
approached nearer, and the angle of the German guns was still further
reduced, although they must already have been doing frightful damage in
all parts of the city, the shrapnel and small bullets could be heard
screaming over the heads of the little party on the roof.

"It is getting pretty hot here, and we had better lie down," Edestone
said. But the words were hardly out of his mouth before Stanton fell
with a bullet in his head, and James sat down, probably more abruptly
than he had ever done anything before in all his life.

"I beg pardon, sir," he observed with a little gasp, "but I think, sir,
as how they have got me in the leg, sir."

They all dropped down. Stanton was dead, and James was bleeding badly
from the flesh-wound in his leg.

"That was the fellow in that tower over there." Lawrence made a
reconnoissance. "He is now shooting straight at us."

"This has got to stop." Edestone frowned. "Lawrence send this
message. No cipher; I would rather have them catch this.

"Tell 'Specs' first to haul down the U. S. flag and run up my private
signal. Then he is to silence every gun he can find that is bearing on
us, and train a machine-gun on the door of the bulk-head, ready to fire
when I give the signal by throwing up my hat.

"Take Lawrence up to the instrument, Mr. Black," he directed, turning
to Black who was giving "first aid" to the unfortunate valet. "I will do
what I can for James."

When the elevator with Lawrence and the electrician had gone up above
the level of the roof, leaving the shaft open down into the house, he
could distinctly hear the soldiers running up the stairs. At any moment
now they might be hammering on the door at the foot of the stairway
leading to the roof.

He hated the idea of killing those innocent Germans, mere machines, as
they were, in the hands of a Master, who with his entire entourage had
become sick with a mania which took the form of militarism, imperialism,
and pan-Germanism. But after the death of his two fellow-countrymen--for
at heart he was still true to the land of his birth, although to save her
he had just renounced the flag--he felt that he was justified in what he
was about to do.

With a silent prayer for the peasant mothers who were soon to lose their
dear ones, he commended their souls to God, and not as these mothers,
poor benighted creatures, had done, to their Emperor.

He was startled from these sorrowful reflections by the white glow of a
searchlight from the Little Peace Maker sweeping across the roof, and
playing hither and thither. Evidently, "Specs" had received his order,
and was now feeling about for the bulkhead door.

A moment later he located it. Immediately the night was made hideous
with the roar of the guns from the airship, as they sowed bursting
shells in all directions, and carried death and destruction to the heart
of this great and wonderful city, built up stone by stone, and standing
as a living monument to one of the greatest people on the face of the
earth--a people that science teaches are the very last expression of
God's greatness shown in His wonderful evolution of matter into His own
image. And for what? That one family might maintain the position given
to one of their ancestors in the remote, dark, and grovelling ages of
the past for prowess of which a modern prizefighter might be proud, but
for acts to which he with a higher standard might not stoop.

The telling response of the Little Peace Maker soon put an end to the
storm of shrapnel and bullets which had been singing, whistling,
buzzing, and screaming about them, and Edestone might have been able to
stand up, but for the pertinacity of the snipers, those serpents of
modern warfare, who were searching every dark corner of the roof.

Matters were fast coming to a climax, however. By the time that
Lawrence and Black had returned from sending the wireless message, and
had crawled over to where Edestone lay, the soldiers had broken down the
lower door, and were pounding at the upper, which "Specs" was holding as
with a rapier point at the heart of a fallen foe, ready to strike at the
slightest movement.

Crawling over to the elevator shaft, Edestone called down a warning in a
loud voice to those below:

"I have a machine-gun trained on the top of the stairs! If you order
your men to break that door down, I will order my guns to fire, and will
kill them faster than you can drive them up!"

For a moment the only response to his challenge was silence. Then a
voice rang out which he had heard before, arrogant and commanding:

"As God has ordained that I and none other should rule the earth, with
Him alone, I shall. By my Imperial order, and with His assistance,
bring that man to me, dead or alive!"

A brief pause ensued. Edestone could hear the officers urging on their
men. Suddenly pistol-shots rang out, and with a mad rush they came on.
The door swayed and shivered under the impact. It split and
shattered. Finally it fell.

"May God have mercy on his soul!" murmured Edestone, and he tossed his
hat high in the air.

"Specs" from his look-out caught the signal; and instantly the doorway
became a writhing, shrieking mass of wounded humanity. Like vaseline
squeezed out of a tube, it was forced out of the opening by the pressure
of those behind and spread in wider and wider circles across the roof,
until the aperture itself was choked and stopped with bodies.

But Edestone and his companions were spared the full measure of this
sickening sight, as the rapid manoeuvres of the Little Peace Maker
compelled them to devote their attention to her.

As the great ship descended to within about ten feet of the
chimney-tops, men appeared on her lower bridge and dropped over the
insulated ladder which extended almost to where the refugees lay.

Picking James up and putting him on his back where he clung like a baby,
Edestone ran for the ladder, quickly followed by Lawrence and Black. He
reached the bridge just in time to turn James over to one of the crew,
and extend his assistance to Lawrence, who had received a shot in one
hand, and was rather dizzily holding on to the ladder with the
other. Eventually, though, they all gained the bridge, and with their
rescuers already there raced up the gangway under a perfect hail of
bullets for the open doorway at the top. But before the last man had
passed through, two of the sailors had been shot, and had fallen to
their death on the roof.

As they entered the ship, they were met by "Specs," Captain Lee,
Dr. Brown, and other officers in uniforms which at the first glance
might have been taken for those of the New York Yacht Club, except for
the insignia on their caps which was a combination of Edestone's private
signal and the letters L. P. M. Edestone, however, interrupted their
attempt to salute him.

"Please waive all ceremony," he said. "We have wounded men here that
must be attended to."

At this, Dr. Brown immediately came forward, and after ordering Lawrence
and James to the hospital gave a start as his glance fell upon Edestone.

"You did not tell me that you yourself were wounded, sir," he exclaimed;
and then for the first time Edestone discovered that his face, hands,
and clothing were covered with blood which was streaming from a wound
above his temple.

He was about to permit himself also to be examined, when there was heard
from below the detonation of one of the Kaiser's big mortars; and
pulling away from the Doctor, he called an excited order to "Specs":

"Throw on your full charge, and lift her as fast as you can!"

He ran to the gangway in time to see the wire carried up to a great
height by the ball from the mortar settling down across the Little Peace
Maker about midships. It was falling now, and would soon come in contact
with the ship.

When it did, there was a slight jar perceptible, but no such result as
the enemy had hoped. The wire was so quickly fused, accompanying an
explosion giving out an intense light, that it seemed to shoot to the
earth like a streak of lightning, setting fire to or knocking down
everything that lay in its path.

Another and another mortar shot followed until the sky seemed to be
filled with falling wires which were swinging, twisting, and snapping
above him. The Little Peace Maker was the centre of an electrical
storm, and was sending back by every wire messages of death to those who
were striving to bring her down.

The ship was rising very rapidly now, however, and almost before
Edestone had time to sing out, "Steady now, as you are," she was 3000
feet above the German capital, and out of range of the wire-throwers.


CHAPTER XXXIII

YACHTING IN THE AIR


While Lawrence's hand was being dressed by one of the assistant
surgeons, he had an opportunity of observing how perfect were the
appointments of the operating room to which he had been taken. The
orderlies and nurses moving about were all dressed in spotless white
gowns and caps. The doctor and those assisting him in cleaning and
dressing the slight flesh-wound which had been inflicted looked at their
patient through holes in a cap that completely covered their heads and
faces. Every appliance was provided for perfect cleanliness and
sanitation, and the apparatus was on hand to permit of any operation of
modern surgery, no matter how complicated.

From where he sat, he could see into another room exactly similar where
James was having the injury to his leg attended to with the same
scrupulous care; and he had passed, as he was brought in, a long room
which he was told was one of the surgical wards, and where he had seen
several men on hospital cots. The surgical wards, he was further
informed, were on the starboard side of the ship, and not connected in
any way with the sick bay which lay over on the port side.

With his great love for ships and machinery, Lawrence was impatient to
get away and make a tour of inspection of this strange craft upon which
he had embarked; but while he was waiting he occupied himself in his
usual fashion by giving vent to his high spirits and making a joke out
of everything.

"Well, Doc," he remarked to the surgeon, "you certainly have got one
nifty little butcher shop, but I want to tell you, before one of those
Ku-Klux throw me down and slap the gas bag in my face, that I have no
adenoids, and that my appendix was cut out by an Arabian doctor who
threw a handful of sand into me to stop the bleeding. If you would like
to study German sausages, though, there is a pile of it down there on
the roof." And even he shuddered as he recalled that awful carnage.

A bright-looking chap, dressed in the smart uniform of a steward on a
gentleman's yacht, appeared at the door, but was not allowed to come in
by Lawrence's aseptic guardians. He had been sent down by Edestone to
inquire as to the condition of the wounded, and to announce to Lawrence
that if he felt well enough to join him, dinner would be ready as soon
as he was. He begged, the messenger said, that Mr. Stuyvesant would go
directly to his room and dress, and allow him to have the pleasure of
showing him over the ship after dinner. If he would let the
quarter-master's department have his measure, he would be fitted out.

Wild horses could not have restrained Lawrence from such an invitation,
much less a little scratch on the hand; and his injury having been
dressed by this time, he was about to set out with the messenger, when
James appealed to him from the next room, begging to be allowed to look
after his master's clothes.

"Beg pardon, sir," he urged, showing his embarrassment at not being able
to stand, "but I am the only one who knows how Mr. Edestone likes his
dinner clothes laid out, and his whole evening will be spoiled without
me, sir. I only ask to be allowed to break in the new man, sir, as
starting right in laying out a gentleman's clothes is half the battle,
sir."

"Don't you think, you have had enough of a battle for one day, you dear
old fighting fossil?" asked Lawrence in a tone of real affection, for
there is nothing which draws men together, regardless of rank, more
quickly than to fight on the same side, and he could not help but admire
the cool manner in which the valet had borne himself under fire.

"Thank you, sir, but mightn't I be allowed to see to his bath, sir? A
drop of hot water in it turns his stomach for a week. Just let me do
that, and I will come straight back to these very kind persons." He
glanced about at the men of science with the condescending manner of the
English upper servant in dealing with the shopkeeper class.

But Lawrence shook his head. "I'm sorry, James, but--" he bowed low to
the grinning circle of doctors and nurses, and assumed his most
grandiloquent air--"you are now in the hands of the only acknowledged
ruling class of the twentieth century, who hold you with a grip of
steel, but whose touch is as gentle as a mother's kiss. So get out your
knitting, Old Socks; you are doomed."

He turned with a laugh and a new impersonation to the surgeon as he left
the room.

"Thank you, Doc. You've cert'nly been kind to me, a poor working
girl. Just send the bill to Mr. Edestone. He is my greatest gentleman
friend."

In his room, which was reached by an elevator, he found the ship's
tailor waiting for him; but after this functionary had taken his measure
and gone, he had an opportunity to look around.

He was in a room, he found, a parlour or sitting-room, about fifteen by
twenty, neatly but handsomely furnished, and suggesting to him in its
general appearance the owner's apartments on the largest and most
perfectly equipped yachts. There was this difference, however, that
nothing about it indicated that it was ever off an even keel. There
were no racks or other contrivances to suggest that it was prepared to
turn in any direction at an angle of forty-five degrees, and which to
the land-lubber causes qualms even while the ship is still tied to the
dock.

It might indeed have been a handsome living-room in a bachelor's
apartment, but for the windows, which at the first glance seemed to be
of the ordinary French casement form, running down to the floor, and
looking as if they might open out onto a balcony; but to his surprise,
he found, when he pulled aside the heavy curtains, that they looked into
a perfectly blank white wall about two inches from the glass.

Adjoining the living-room was a bedroom furnished in similar style with
the same sort of windows, and beyond, Lawrence found as attractive a
bath-room as ever welcomed an American millionaire after a hot day in
his office, or a game of polo.

After a boiling tub and a freezing shower, in the pink of condition--and
nothing else--he went back into the bedroom.

"Now what," he had wondered, "will the Fairy Godmother have for me in
the way of a union suit, and a pair of jumpers?"

But he had not wondered very hard. He found, as he knew he would, for he
had yachted with Edestone before, a complete outfit, not forgetting the
cocktail, which was standing on the table as quietly and innocently as
if it had always been there, although in reality it had just been placed
there by a man who, with years of experience in listening to the sounds
that come from a gentleman's bathroom, had timed its arrival to the
second.

Nor was it one of those cocktails that are poured from a bottle, and
served hot out of a silver-snouted shaker on a sloppy waiter, but a
masterpiece from the hands of an artist, who took pride in his
handiwork.

With the modesty of a chorus girl with a good figure on a "first night,"
he toasted the valet with much ceremony.

Soon he was dressed in the mess jacket of a petty officer, and putting a
yachting cap jauntily on his head, he went out to seek his friend. The
valet told him he would find Mr. Edestone in the breakfast room, and he
was shown thither by an officer who was waiting for him.

As he passed along, he could not divest himself of the idea that he was
on board Edestone's yacht, the _Storm Queen_ again, only that everything
here was on a larger scale. The breakfast room, he discovered, was on
the same deck but farther forward, and was reached by passing through a
large room furnished as a general living-room.

Edestone came forward to greet him with a rather melancholy expression
on his face. He was dressed in a yachtsman's dinner jacket which fitted
him perfectly, and with his bandaged head, he looked more than ever the
sea lord. His rank of Captain was shown by the stripes on his arm.

The room was, as one would expect Edestone to have in his New York or
country house, simple but handsome.

He had just been giving some orders about the windows which were of the
same form and size as those Lawrence had remarked in his own room, and
like them opened against a wall; but at Lawrence's appearance, he
interrupted these instructions.

"I am glad to see you aboard." He presented his hand, which Lawrence
took with his left. "I had looked forward to your first trip with me
with so much pleasure. But how different it is from the way I had
pictured it. I cannot get Fred, Stanton, or my two sailors out of my
mind."

Lawrence's own face saddened, but for Edestone's sake he endeavoured to
speak philosophically.

"The fortunes of war, old man. Why grieve? You certainly were not to
blame."

For a moment there was silence between them; then Edestone, as if
attempting to shake off his gloomy reflections, struck a lighter note.

"How do you like being a pirate, Lawrence?" he smiled.

"Great! The dream of my life, with you for a captain!"

So they sat down to dinner. The men attending to their wants moved about
unheard and almost unseen in the shadow outside the circle of soft light
which fell only on the table. The room was filled with an indescribable
aroma of comfort and good cheer. A newly-lighted fire crackled on the
hearth, for it had suddenly become quite cold. Indeed, it was with
difficulty Lawrence could realize that but a few hours before they had
been in the midst of battle and sudden death, and that, as they sat,
down there five times the height of the Eiffel Tower below them was the
Embassy from which they were still removing the dead, or aiding the
dying.

As he looked at Edestone with his sad, brooding eyes, he felt all at
once as if his friend had been taken away from him, and had been lifted
to a place so exalted, that for the life of him, he could not have taken
the liberty of speaking until he was first addressed.

The dinner went on, and though the food was delightful and the wines
perfect, both men merely toyed with what was on their plates, while
Lawrence gulped his champagne as if he were trying to get its effect
quickly in order to throw off this strange new diffidence and restraint
which he now felt in the presence of his oldest and dearest friend.

He tried to imagine that they two were cruising alone on the _Storm
Queen_, as they had so often done, and that this was just one of many
evenings that they had spent in this way together; but

    Where was the lap of the water at her side,
      Or the pounding of the launch as she rode at her boom?
    The groan of the anchor as she swung with the tide,
      Or the blowing off steam, which demanded more room?

All was perfectly quiet. If there were storage batteries on board, they
had been charged. There was no shovelling of coal; no shrieking and
banging of doors in the boiler room, nor banking of fires. The only
thing that remained true to tradition was the ship's bell. It had just
sounded out five bells.

The silence was at last broken by Edestone; but, although he spoke, it
was more as if he were merely letting his pensive thoughts run on.

"How different this has been from the way I had planned it. How
different, too, has been your home-coming, old man--for the _Storm
Queen_ was like home to you in the old days."

But Lawrence by this time was beginning to feel the effects of
champagne, and was certain that unless he very soon did something to
lift the pall that had fallen on them, he himself would be dissolved in
tears.

"I don't know what your plan was," he said; "but don't you worry about
my home-coming. The thing that ought to worry you is my leave-taking.
The L. P. M. has got the _Storm Queen_ beat a mile, and I am booked for
life. And, by the way, what is my rank on this ship? My old position of
room clerk on the _Storm Queen_ won't go here, as I don't suppose you
intend to have any 'cuties' on board, not even for the New London week."

"No." Edestone consented at last to smile. "I am afraid, Lawrence,
those days are all over for me. My little house of cards has fallen
about me, and I have serious work before me, if I wish to build it up
again. I have been thinking, and thinking very hard. From the moment
that I saw poor Fred roll down the stairs of the Embassy, I knew that my
first plan had failed. When Germany discovers that the United States is
not back of me, she will apologize, and you know how quickly our present
Administration will accept the apology, and how quickly they will
disclaim any responsibility for my acts, if it means a fight?"

Lawrence nodded.

"Germany," went on Edestone, "will then call on all the neutral nations
to join her in bringing me, an outlaw, to earth. This will give her a
common cause with them, and she will hope in that way to strengthen her
position relative to the Allies. She does not know my relationship with
England, but she will undoubtedly declare that I am one of the means
England is using to subjugate the world."

"And is there nothing you can do?" asked Lawrence.

"My last and only hope is that tomorrow, after they have realized the
uselessness of opposing me, they will listen to a proposition of
peace--without honour, from their old standard; but with great honour,
from the standard that I intend to establish. I propose to send what is
practically an ultimatum; and that is, that if they do not immediately
open negotiations looking toward peace, I will sink every German
battleship that floats, and destroy every factory in which guns,
explosives, or any of the munitions of war are manufactured."

"Me for the junk business," exclaimed Lawrence with an inspiration. "Oh,
you Krupps!"

But Edestone paid no heed to the frivolous interruption. "It is my
intention," he continued, "to give sufficient notice, so that if they
are willing to admit my supremacy, there need be no loss of life."

He halted, as an officer had just come in, and was standing after
saluting, waiting for Edestone to stop speaking.

"The look-outs report, sir, that there are several Taubes climbing up
toward us. What are your orders, sir?"

"Close everything down, except one of these." Edestone pointed to a
window. "Expose no lights."

After the man had retired, he said to one of the servants in the room:
"Put out the lights, and bring us two cloaks."

When the lights had been put out, Lawrence saw for the first time that
during dinner the solid cubes of steel, the size of the windows, had
noiselessly rolled back, leaving a square aperture or passage-way
through the six-foot thickness of the armour-plate, and forming a sort
of _loggia_ into which they stepped. It was a beautiful night, and
through the clear, rarefied atmosphere the stars seemed to Lawrence
brighter than he had ever seen them before, while down below them he
could just see the lights of Berlin.

The explosions of the motors of the Taubes could be plainly heard, but
as yet nothing could be seen of them.

"What do you suppose those mosquitoes expect to do against us with their
pop-guns and tomato cans?" asked Lawrence.

"I do not know." Edestone shook his head. "Perhaps they are just coming
up to look us over. They will keep out of sight, and as they may not
know that we are protected on top, will perhaps try to drop one of their
tomato cans on us. That is, if they can get close enough. I hardly think
that they will risk a miss, and drop bombs on their own capital, so long
as the Only One Who Seems To Count In Germany is in the midst of his
beloved people."

The Taubes could be heard on all sides, as if they were climbing in
great circles around the Little Peace Maker. There seemed to be at least
a dozen of them, although owing to the confusion of sounds as they
crossed and re-crossed, it was impossible to count them.

At last, though, when judging by the noise they were about on the same
level as the ship, Edestone turned to an officer who was standing by
him.

"Tell Commander Anderson to load all of the big guns with a full charge
of black powder only, and fire them all off at the same time.

"And, Lawrence," he advised his friend, "when you hear a bell ringing,
stand on your toes, open your mouth, stick your fingers in your ears,
and if you've never been in Hell before, prepare yourself for a shock."

Hardly had he gotten the words out of his mouth, when bells began
ringing all over the ship. In just exactly one minute, Lawrence thought
he had been blown into bits, as he was lifted and thrown from side to
side against the steel walls of the passage. The noise was so great that
his ears seemed unable to record it, and it was made known to him by the
air pressure which seemed to be crushing him to death. The rush of air
down his throat was choking him, while his very insides seemed to be
turning over and over in their effort to escape. A dizziness and nausea
followed, and he had to lean against his friend, trying to catch his
breath in the thick, black smoke with which they were enveloped.

"This is Hell all right," he managed to gasp.

"That is the worst you will ever get," said Edestone. "It was noise that
I was after, and black powder makes it. Your experience would not have
been half so bad had the guns been loaded or had I used smokeless."

The ship which had trembled from stem to stern under the tremendous
concussion was floating now as quietly as a toy balloon, while the wind
was rolling up and pushing before it a great cloud of smoke which
obscured the sky. On all sides there was perfect stillness, broken only
now and again by the last explosion of gas caught in the cylinders of
the Taubes by the sudden stoppage of the engines. The airmen were
volplaning to earth as fast and as silently as they could.

"Well, that ought to hold them for a while," commented Lawrence in a
tone which showed that he was almost himself again.

"And make them a little bit more amenable to reason in the morning,"
added Edestone, and he laughed, for action with him always drove away
the blue devils.

"With that settled, too, we will just have time before turning in, to
inspect my quarters," he continued. "Tomorrow I will introduce you to
'Specs' and Captain Lee, and you can go with them at eleven o'clock on
their tour of official inspection. They will show you the fire drill,
the life-balloon drill, the gun drill, the kitchen, and the cows. But
now I want you to see a different side of the ship. We will look at my
quarters, then at my guest rooms, and finally at my royal suite or state
apartments as I call them."

He then took Lawrence through room after room, which were arranged in
the form of a horseshoe, starting on the port side with his breakfast
room, and working around to the starboard side with its opening toward
the stern of the ship.

On the port side were Edestone's apartments--living-room, library,
or den, bedroom, dressing-room, bath-room, and gymnasium. On the
starboard were a number of guest rooms arranged in suites of parlour,
bedroom, and bath, while at the crown of the arch was a large dining-room
in which fifty persons could sit down to dinner comfortably.

The centre of the horseshoe was the large room through which he had
passed, and like the general meeting room of a large country house was
filled with all known kinds of games--instruments and devices to amuse
that most unfortunate class of human beings who have no resources within
themselves, and must play some foolish game, or do some foolish puzzle
in order to get through the life which seems to hang so heavily on their
hands.

From this they passed to a lower deck about amidships, to a room about
eighty feet by one hundred and twenty feet, which extended the full
width of the ship and up three decks. At one end of this large and
handsome room was a raised platform arranged like the Speaker's desk in
the House of Representatives at Washington with the desks at lower
levels for stenographers, clerks, and attendants, while around the room
in concentric circles were large comfortable seats and desks, also like
a Senate Chamber, only more luxurious in appointments, as though it were
to receive a more distinguished body of men than the Senate of the
United States, if that were possible.

"This," said Edestone, "is where I intend to hold my Peace Conference,
and when you see the names of the distinguished men who are to sit here,
and the apartments that I have arranged for them and their suites, you
will perhaps be glad to take your old position of room clerk."

Then after showing his companion through these magnificent "royal
suites," as he called them, all furnished and equipped in the most
sumptuous fashion, he suggested that they had better turn in.

"We will hope and pray for the best in the morning," he said, as he bade
Lawrence good-night.


CHAPTER XXXIV

THE ULTIMATUM


The sun was streaming through the windows when Lawrence awoke the next
morning. The valet had come in shortly before to throw back the
curtains with a slam, and by moving about the room, slapping up shades
and dropping boots, make the usual noises of a well-trained valet at
that time of the morning.

"Mr. Edestone is already up, sir," he said when he saw that he had
succeeded in waking Lawrence, "and is having his breakfast in his own
apartments. Will you have yours here or will you go to the breakfast
room?"

"Breakfast room," elected Lawrence sleepily. "What time is it?"

"Eight o'clock, sir. What will you have for breakfast, sir?"

"Anything and eggs," said Lawrence, and was about to turn over and go to
sleep again when he realized where he was, and leaping out of bed to the
window in one bound stepped out into the _loggia_.

The Little Peace Maker had dropped down and was now only about a
thousand feet up; and when he looked down from his balcony, he could see
that she had changed her position so as to float exactly over the
Palace. It almost seemed to him as if he could step off and onto the
roof of this great pile of masonry. The airship, too, must have just
moved into this position, as was shown by the excited way in which the
little people below him were running away in every direction.

He had his bath, and hurriedly dressing went into the breakfast room,
where he found Edestone, who had finished his breakfast and was waiting
for him, while reading from a lot of slips of paper which he was turning
over in his hand. The master of the ship was dressed all in white and
looked refreshed after a good night's rest.

"Good-morning, Lawrence," he greeted him. "Did you sleep well?"

"Like a top."

"And how is your hand?"

"I had almost forgotten it, only I did get the dressings wet while
taking my bath, but that will give me an excuse for passing the time of
day with the doctors. How is your head?"

"Oh, that does not amount to anything," said Edestone. "It will be well
in a week. Have you seen the morning papers?" With a smile he handed him
a sheet on which was printed all the news of the day which the wireless
man had picked up during the night.

"The United States has not been heard from," he commented as he glanced
it over. "I wonder what the Southern Baptist Union School Children will
think of me now? You know the Secretary of State thought I was a
Baptist. And as for him, why he will leave the State Department and stay
away until it gets too hot in Florida, or the lecturing season is all
over, while the President will write a most scholarly note to all of the
Powers telling them how much he loves them, and what a glorious thing it
is to be an American. He will then give an unqualified invitation to all
of the dark-skinned downtrodden criminals of Europe to come over and be
sprinkled with the holy water of citizenship, after they have made their
mark to their naturalization papers which have been read to them by
their interpreter.

"London reports that the news from Germany has filled the entire country
with new confidence," he went on, "and that the Londoners have given
themselves over to the most un-English and thoroughly Latin
demonstrations by parading the streets and singing songs and indulging
in another Mafeking. I see, too, that Lord Rockstone is reported to have
said that he thought now the war would not last as long as he had
expected. The King has called a special meeting of the Cabinet for today
at 4 o'clock.

"Reports come from Rome that Italy will enter the war immediately, and
the papers point out the fact that now since her friend America has
joined the Allies it is high time that Italy should take her position.

"Petrograd reports that they have lost 100,000 men but have captured
250,000 Austrians.

"Constantinople," he went on reading, "declares that the Dardanelles are
impregnable and that the city is perfectly quiet, but the Sultan and
half of his harem have moved to his summer residence."

He laid down the printed sheet. "I have had no communication yet from
down there," he said as he pointed down in the direction of the Palace.
"My international law department is drawing up a proclamation which I
will send as soon as it is finished. It will be along the lines that I
spoke of to you last night, but framed in more diplomatic
language. These are the latest bulletins I was just reading over when
you came in."

Then while Lawrence sat eating his breakfast, Edestone continued to read
now and then bits of the different press notices.

"Listen to this," he said with a laugh. "'The twenty Taubes sent up to
make a night attack on the American airship inflicted great
injury. After using up all their ammunition and bombs they were forced
to retire before the large guns of the enemy. They all reached the
ground in safety. The tremendous explosion that was heard in the city
is thought to have been caused by the exploding of one of the large
magazines.'"

"What's that from?" Lawrence glanced up from his "anything and eggs."
"_Die Fliegende Blatter?_"

But Edestone did not smile, he was glancing at another of the slips.

"Ah," he said in a sad voice, "I seem to have killed about one thousand
people last night."

"Still," argued Lawrence, "that was not as large a percentage of the
German Empire as they killed of your little kingdom."

"No," granted Edestone; "and as long as they insist upon treating me as
an outlaw I will be one so far as they are concerned. I will now go and
see if my ultimatum is prepared. I am undecided as to whether I will
send it by wireless or by a messenger."

Lawrence finished his breakfast and while he sat in the _loggia_ smoking
his cigar and looking down over the city, he decided to ask permission
to carry the message to the Emperor himself. The idea delighted him,
and he pictured exactly how he would walk and speak his lines like the
prince in the story book. "Yes, sir. I thought you would be willing
to advance the money for a few days, and then----"
"And then?"
"And then I thought I wouldn't bother you. It never occurred to me
that I was getting a tradesman into trouble. I hope you won't be hard on
him, sir."
"I shall not be hard on him," said Warde, "because"--for a moment his eyes
flashed--"because he came to me and confessed his fault; but I won't
deny that I gave him a very uncomfortable quarter of an hour. He
sat in your chair.""Well, it is done," he said, "and I have given them until one o'clock to
answer."

Lawrence was then formally introduced to "Specs" under his title of
Admiral Page, to Captain Lee, and the officers, and he spent one of the
most delightful days of his life, so much interested in what he saw that
he entirely forgot that he was a pirate, waiting to destroy a peaceable
city if it did not do his bidding.

Edestone had settled himself down for a quiet day of waiting, and
Lawrence amused himself by inspecting every part of the ship and talking
with all on board from the oil men to the Admiral.

"Admiral Page," he inquired, "where do you keep the Deionizer?"

At which "Specs" peeped at him with a suspicious glance through his
thick glasses. "Has Mr. Edestone spoken to you of that?" he asked.

"Yes," replied Lawrence, "but he did not explain to me its working."

"Specs" hesitated to take even Lawrence into the holy of holies until he
had obtained permission from Edestone to do so. Having by telephone
communicated with him, and receiving his permission, he conducted
Lawrence up into the bow of the ship. After passing through several
heavy doors, which "Specs" unlocked, saluting the sentries at each, they
came to a great iron grille and he motioned to Lawrence to look through,
saying, "This is as far as I can take you."

Lawrence looked through, and he saw what appeared to be the door of an
enormous safe-deposit k vault. "That," nodded "Specs," "is the door to
the safe in which the Deionizer is kept. No one on earth excepting
Mr. Desmond sprang forward, ardent, eager, afire with generous
self-surrender.

"Forgive me," he cried.

"Oh, forgive me, because I can't forgive myself!"
After this breaking of barriers, Scaife took less pains to disguise
a nature which turned as instinctively to darkness as Desmond's to
light.

A score of times protest died when Scaife murmured, "There I go
again, forgetting the gulf between us"; and always Desmond swore
stoutly that the gulf, if a gulf did yawn between them, should be bridged
by friendship and hope.

But, insensibly, Cæsar's ideals became tainted by Scaife's materialism.
Scaife, for instance, spent money lavishly upon "food" and clothes.
So far as a Public Schoolboy is able, he never denied his splendid young
body anything it coveted."Yes," replied "Specs," with a look of pity for the other man's
ignorance, "I suppose that is the way you would express it. If you
really want to understand, and are willing to give the time to it, come
to my quarters, and I will give you the scientific explanation."

"No, thank you," said Lawrence; "I'll take your word for it, but I am
glad to know that when I get back to earth I'm not liable at any time to
be blown away like a thistledown."

At lunch Edestone appeared very thoughtful and seemed to feel great
anxiety about the outcome of his note. They had observed that soon after
the message had been sent automobiles were coming and going from the
Palace in great numbers, and gathered that the Emperor apparently was
holding a council of war. They had also seen with powerful glasses that,
in certain parts of the city there was great activity of some kind, but
they were unable to ascertain exactly what it was.

"I cannot understand," frowned Edestone, "how they can possibly decline
a proposition _pour parler_. I asked them to agree to nothing. I
assured them that I would use my influence in favour of a just
settlement of all the claims arising out of the war and of the incidents
leading up to it. I appealed to their humanity, and guaranteed as far
as lay within my power to protect the lives and property of Germans all
over the world if they would only stop all actual fighting until I could
make an exactly similar appeal to the other Governments that are
involved."

Just then an officer came in and handed Edestone a wireless message
which had just been received.

Edestone read it hurriedly, but as he glanced up it was easy to see from
the expression on his face that he was pleased.

"Well," he exclaimed elatedly, "these Germans are not so bad after all,
and if they will only give up the idea that they are the only people on
the face of the earth, the sooner will they get what they want. That is,
if they are telling the truth when they state they are fighting only to
bring religion, science, and culture to the entire world. They do
sincerely and honestly believe, I think, that this can be obtained only
under the German form of government, and many of the other nations would
be willing to admit this in part were they absolutely convinced of their
sincerity and did not suspect them of greed on the part of the merchant
class and ambition on the part of the war party.

"They have apparently received my note in the spirit in which it was
sent," he explained, "and have agreed to consider carefully the
proposition which I have made. ."
* * * * *
Looking back afterwards, John often wondered whether, unconsciously, the
Duffer had sown a grain of mustard-seed destined to grow into a large
tree. Or, had the intuition that Scaife was other than what he
seemed furnished the fertile soil into which the seed fell? In any
case, from the end of this first week began to increase the suspicion,
which eventually became conviction, that the Demon, keen at games,
popular in his house, clever at work--clever, indeed! inasmuch as he
never achieved more or less than was necessary--generous with his money,
handsome and well-mannered, blessed, in fine, with so many gifts of
the gods, yet lacked a soul.

This, of course, is putting into words the vague speculations and
reasonings of a boy not yet fourteen. If an Olympian--one of the masters,
for instance, or the Head of the House--had said, "Verney, has the Demon
a soul?" John would have answered promptly, "Ra--ther! He's been
awfully decent to Fluff and me. We'd have had a hot time if it hadn't
been for him," and so forth.... And, indeed, to doubt Scaife's sincerity
and goodness seemed at times gross disloyalty, because he stood,
firm as a rock, between the two urchins in his room and the turbulent
crowd outside.

This defence of the weak, this guarding of green fruit from the maw of
Lower School boys, afforded Scaife an opportunity of exercising
power.

He had the instincts of the potter, inherited, no doubt; and he
moulded the clay ready to his hand with the delight of a master-workman.
Nobody else knew what the man of millions had said to his boy when
he despatched him to Harrow; but the Demon remembered every word.

He had reason to respect and fear his sire.

"I'm sending you to Harrow to study, not books nor games, but boys, who
will be men when you are a man.

And, above all, study their weaknesses.
Look for the flaws. Teach yourself to recognize at a glance the liar,
the humbug, the fool, the egotist, and the mule. Make friends
with as many as are likely to help you in after life, and don't forget
that one enemy may inflict a greater injury than twenty friends can
repair.

Spend money freely; dress well; swim with the tide, not against it."

A year at Harrow confirmed Scaife's confidence in his father's worldly
wisdom. Big for his age, strong, with his grandsire's muscles, tough as
hickory, he had become the leader of the Lower School boys at the
Manor.
The Fifth were civil to him, recognizing, perhaps, the expediency
of leaving him alone ever since the incident of the cricket stump.
The Sixth found him the quickest of the fags and uncommonly obliging.
His house-master signed reports which neither praised nor blamed.
To Dirty Dick the boy was the son of a man who could write a cheque
for a millionBut when she changed her speed, and at one hundred
and eighty knots disappeared from sight, they must have been relieved.

At such speed it was only a few minutes before they were hovering
quietly over the old ruin on the banks of the lake, and they settled
down to spend the afternoon as they would have, had they been anchored
in Frenchman's Bay off of Bar Harbour in the month of August on board
the _Storm Queen_.

It was a beautiful and quiet summer scene, and like a big trout in a
limpid pool the Little Peace Maker lay perfectly still basking in the
warm sunshine. Most of the ports were open and the men were lying around
enjoying the relaxation of the first dog-watch.

Although it was with difficulty that Edestone could keep Lawrence still
long enough, he forced him to join in a game of chess, which was
Edestone's favourite form of relaxation. Lawrence, however, kept
continually breaking in with the suggestion that they go below and take
a walk among the ruins of the home of one of the ancient Barons of
Prussia.

From time to time, while waiting for Lawrence to move, Edestone would
consult his watch, and as the fatal hour of five approached, although
perfectly calm he was anxious.

With the finish of the game, Lawrence, who had chafed under the
confinement, insisted upon going on deck and talking with the officers
and men.

When next he saw his friend, Edestone was walking up and down the
general living-room with an expression of great anxiety on his face. It
was half-past five o'clock, and although Lawrence had entirely forgotten
it, he suddenly thought of the ultimatum.

"Well what did they answer?" he asked.

"Nothing," said Edestone.

"And what are you going to do?"

"I am going to Kiel to sink one of their largest battleships, and see if
that will wake them up. We shall be under way in ten minutes and should
be there by eight-thirty o'clock. I have ordered 'Specs' to get under
way as soon as possible."

Lawrence was delighted; this was the best yachting that he had ever had,
and he wanted to be in so many places at the same time that he ran about
like a boy on his first ocean trip. He was just going up the
companionway to the pilot house, where he knew he would find Edestone,
when he was almost knocked off his feet by the impact of something
against the side of the ship which felt as if it would tear out every
rivet and buckle every beam. At the same instant there was an explosion
which was worse than the black-powder explosion of the night before, and
he was just thinking how unkind it was of Edestone not to have warned
him before indulging in another one of his pyrotechnical demonstrations,
when it was followed by another and another.

He had managed by this time to get into the pilot house, where he saw
Edestone with an expression of rage on his face giving sharp peremptory
orders while the life was being pounded out of the Little Peace
Maker. In response to these orders, the ship suddenly shot up with such
rapidity that it seemed to Lawrence as if his legs would be driven
through the floor.

He was suffering great pain in his head and his nose was bleeding. He
could scarcely hear what Edestone was saying to him, but finally he
caught these words:

"So that is their answer, the liars! They have taken advantage of my
willingness to remain here quietly, and with their thoroughness in all
matters and their usual method of working in the dark, they have placed
me where they have carefully worked out the range of their
forty-two-centimetre guns. They hoped to be able to capture us, but
seeing our smoke, and realizing that I was going to move, they took this
unspeakable method of putting an end to the Little Peace Maker."


CHAPTER XXXV

A LYING KING MAKES A NATION OF LIARS


It seemed for a time as if Edestone had completely lost control of
himself. Lawrence, "Specs," and Captain Lee, who had all known him for
years, stood back staring at him in blank amazement. He was perfectly
livid. Out of his face had gone every semblance of the man that they had
known, loved, honoured, and respected for his kind, big, and forgiving
nature, willing to stand an insult rather than use his great power where
a smaller character would have demanded the last ounce of flesh. In its
place was an expression of rage which would have been frightful to see
on the face of a weaker man, but on his, with all the power and
determination of his strong character behind it, it was appalling. It
made them feel that they were held helpless by a powerful demon who
would destroy and kill any who might stand in his way. Pushing everyone
aside in a manner that was entirely foreign to him, he sprang to the
wheel and taking it rang for full speed ahead. He swung the ship around
so quickly that she banked and turned over at an angle of thirty
degrees.

She was then at an altitude of from 7000 to 8000 feet and he put her
head down as if he intended to drive her steel-pointed bow into the very
heart of the city of Berlin. But when he had gotten her at about 400
feet he straightened her out and sent her at 150 knots. Without taking
his eyes off his goal, which seemed to be the Palace of the Kaiser, he
said in a cold and emotionless voice: "See what damage has been done and
report to me quickly, and as there is a God in Heaven if a single one of
my men has been killed I will hang the Kaiser after I have destroyed his
city!"

While the different officers were busily telephoning to every part of
the ship carrying out this order, Lawrence stood paralysed waiting for
the answers. He sincerely hoped that none of the men had been killed,
but as one officer after another reported all well in his department,
and as the number of departments yet to be heard from grew less and
less, he could not control a distinct feeling of disappointment, for he
had silently said "Amen!" to Edestone's last sentiment. When all had
been heard from, and it was found that none had been killed, and that
the injuries to the ship were, so slight that they could be repaired
within a week, Edestone said to the officer of the deck:

"Take the wheel. When you are over the city and have made the Palace,
circle it at eight knots. I wish them all to see me. After you have
rounded the Palace, run at full speed for Kiel."

And without a word to Lawrence he turned and left the bridge. On his
face was a look that showed that the demon within him was under perfect
control, but he had no desire to hide the fact that it was still with
him. Lawrence would no more have thought of following him than he would
have thought of following a wounded Manchurian tiger into its cave.

"I would have hated to hear that any one of our fine fellows had been
killed," he said with a nervous laugh, "but my, what a swell little
afternoon hanging that would have been! Nathan Hale with the original
cast wouldn't have had a speculator in front of his doors. His front-row
seats would be selling at box-office prices, while we would have sold
out the house at ten thousand times the cost of the production before
the first-nighters had even seen a press notice. There would not have
been a piece of paper in the house except the Press and the Princes. By
the sacred substance of John D. Rockefeller's hair-tonic, I hate to
think of the money we would have made with the movies! The Crown Prince
giving the Papa Wilhelm kiss, while the trap man plays on the melodeon
'It's the Wrong Way to Tickle Mary,' and the Ghost of the Hohenzollern,
who ate up her two babies when she found they disturbed her gentleman
friend, hovering over the scene like Schumann-Heink in the
_Rheingold_,--I would not release that reel for less than a billion
dollars down!

"But why talk about pleasant things when we have such serious matters on
our hands."

"Mr. Edestone looked as if he meant serious business all right," said
one of the officers. "Listen! I hear the wireless sending a message
now."

Lawrence listened, and repeated as he heard: "The Little Peace Maker is
now running for Kiel, where she will arrive at 8:30. At 8:45 I will
begin to drop tons of lyddite and dynamite on the decks of all German
ships of war, and in order that there may be no unnecessary loss of life
I give this notice."

The instrument stopped, but Lawrence continued, as if still catching and
translating the message:

"And realizing the extreme supersensitiveness of the German sailors, we
are sending ahead by Parcel Post baskets for the cats and cages for the
canaries. His eye fell on it. He knew what it was. It was a knife that
he had brought up, some days before, to cut a piece of cord, and
had forgotten to take away with him.

He moved slowly towards it, passing Hallward as he did so. As soon as
he got behind him, he seized it, and turned round.
Hallward stirred in his chair as if he was going to rise. He rushed at
him, and dug the knife into the great vein that is behind the ear,
crushing the man's head down on the table, and stabbing again and
again.

And then as if some sudden idea had struck him, he rushed from the
bridge, and while the Little Peace Maker was slowly passing over the
plaza in front of the Palace, the men on the bridge saw with a mingled
feeling of horror and delight a large black object, which resembled a
submarine mine, dropping from the port side of the ship, and they stood
in breathless expectation of seeing the hideous Renaissance monument,
erected by Schluter, blown to atoms. When the sinister-looking cylinder
struck the pavement it exploded, but instead of death and destruction
the flaggings were strewn with egg-shells, coffee-grounds, and garbage.

"I always did like that French chef," said Lawrence when he returned to
the bridge, gasping for breath.

"I am sorry," he added, "that we didn't have our little lynching bee
this afternoon, but the sinking of a billion dollars' worth of
battleships must be almost as much fun as hanging a 'kink.'"

They were now going at top speed, and after waiting about for some time
and finding that Edestone did not return to the bridge, he went to his
room and dressed for dinner.

At dinner Edestone appeared, but he was very quiet.

"Lawrence," he said, "you must forgive me, but I really am not myself. I
cannot recall at any time in my entire life when I was ever so angry as
I was this afternoon. I think they call it 'seeing red.'"

"You were 'seeing red' all right," said Lawrence, "and you certainly got
my goat."

"If one of the men on this ship had been killed, after that pledge had
been given for their safety, I do not know what I would have done."

"Exactly what do you propose to do?"

"I intend to wreck and destroy everything in this country that will be
of the slightest use to them for military purposes. Today it is Kiel
with its ships, shipyards, and dry-docks; tomorrow, Krupps; and so on
until they will have to stop fighting for the lack of munitions of
war. I shall endeavour as far as possible to avoid loss of life, but,"
with an ironical smile, "if these people wish to indulge in a fanatical
display of heroism and patriotism, I shall allow them the privilege of
sinking with their ships, or dying with their pet inventions."

With everything closed down tight they were fast approaching Kiel, and
going up into the conning tower Edestone and Lawrence were able to see
the entire German fleet. His message had evidently been received, but
the commanders, instead of accepting his warning, had steam up, were
stripped for action, and with flags flying were making for the open sea.

Edestone, as quietly as if he were standing on the bridge of the
_Storm Queen_ giving instructions for the next day's cruise, turned
to "Specs."

"Go out and circle them," he said, "meet the leading ship, and then with
every gun, aerial torpedo, and bomb dropper destroy them."

The air was soon filled with the most frightful conflict that had ever
taken place in the heavens above, on the earth beneath, or in the waters
under the earth. Every ship in the fleet was, as far as possible,
training all of her guns on them, while they, moving at the rate of
thirty knots, were sailing around and around, dropping bombs on those
under them, bombarding with their great 16-inch guns the distant ships,
while the smaller guns rendered the middle distance untenable to any
ship yet built by man.

In the course of an hour not one of the German ships could be seen above
the water, and Edestone, with none of his usual kindness of heart and
sympathy for others, leaving to their fate the dead and dying that
filled the sea beneath them, gave the orders to destroy the shipyards
and dry-docks before it was too dark.

For a week this rain of destruction was continued day after day until
his prophecy had been fulfilled, and Germany, driven to her knees, was
suing for peace.


CHAPTER XXXVI

THINK OF IT! WHY NOT?


Edestone, in the meantime, through Sir Egbert Graves, had communicated
with the King of England, politely calling His Majesty's attention to
what he was doing, and begging that he would call upon his Allies to
stop all hostilities, and intimating that the same treatment would be
meted out to any who declined to comply with His Majesty's request.

He also suggested that it was his sincere hope that His Majesty would
call to a conference the representatives of the nations of Europe to
discuss the settling of all questions that had caused the war, or had
grown out of it, as well as the possible methods of securing for the
world perpetual peace.

He stated that he would put at His Majesty's disposal the Little Peace
Maker if it were necessary in order to accomplish this.

He intimated that, if it were perpetual peace that was sought, much time
and many lives would be saved if all would, of their own accord, each
for himself, do what he was doing for Germany as fast as possible,
namely, destroy all ships and implements of war.

This raised a storm of protest, and international notes burned the ether
of space as they flashed back and forth. Even the United States entered
the controversy, seeming to have at last found something sufficiently
threatening to her interests and insulting to her dignity to cause her
to take her place with the other nations of the world.

Edestone was inundated with communications from the different nations,
drawn in the most bombastic manner; for although they must have by this
time realized that they were absolutely in his power, they were unable
to set aside the boastful method of addressing their fellow-men which
they had inherited from their savage ancestors, who, standing half-naked
around the council fire, tried by this method to throw terror into the
hearts of their listeners.

To all this he made but one reply, which was that nations which came
together for the purpose of sincerely discussing universal peace must
come absolutely unarmed, and those who refused so to do should be
disarmed by force. When these protests finally took the form of an
approaching coalition of the nations of the earth for the purpose of his
destruction, his answer was to take possession quietly of two or three
of the largest plants in Europe, which he forced to run to replenish the
Little Peace Maker with munitions of war.

After a diplomatic correspondence had gone on, extending over several
weeks, and Edestone had punctuated his demands with an occasional
sinking of a battleship or destruction of a powder plant belonging to
the nations who stood out against him, after he had visited all of the
principal capitals, and representatives of the Governments had come on
board to discuss with him, his terms were finally agreed upon, and the
date for this great meeting was fixed. He declined to negotiate with
any, other than the absolute heads of the respective Governments, and
after much discussion all precedent was set aside, and it was agreed
that the conference should be held on board of the Little Peace
Maker. Franz Josef I., Emperor of Austria; Wilhelm II., Emperor of
Germany; George V., King of England; Nicholas II., Czar of Russia; the
President of the French Republic; Mr. Cockadoo of the United States of
America, together with a company of lesser lights, all with suites in
keeping with their rank, were there received and entertained by him.

Lawrence, accepting the position of Room Clerk, took great pride and
pleasure in seeing that everyone was properly installed. This was not,
however, his official position, as Edestone had turned over to him the
task of answering the great volume of communications that he had
received from amateurs, fanatics, ladies, and criminals, and it devolved
upon him to answer these and also to provide for the entertainment of
the representatives of the Anarchists, Socialists, Organized Labour, and
Suffragettes.

To the Anarchists, in answer to their inquiries as to where they were
now to obtain their explosives with which to continue their campaigns in
the future, and without the use of which they could secure for their
arguments no attention, he made no reply.

To the Socialists, he said that the best that he could do for them was
to provide an overflow meeting at the foot of the stairs; the Emperor of
Germany had refused to sit down with the traitors, as he called them,
and for once Edestone agreed with the Imperial contention. There,
Lawrence assured them, their point of view would be given serious
consideration; in fact, he himself expected to have the great honour
of addressing them and the Prohibitionists, the Anti-Vivisectionists,
the Cubists, the Futurists, the Post-Impressionists, and the Reds.

To Organized Labour, Edestone wrote that he would represent their
cause. Descended as he was from a long line of honest labouring men, who
had succeeded without the assistance of an organization of lazy and
inefficient ones combined under dishonest leaders, he assured them that
he would insist upon their rights, and that under the new regime,
honesty, efficiency, and sense of responsibility to those who employed
them would be recognized and rewarded in a manner beyond their wildest
dreams. This could not, however, be accomplished, he said, except by
forcing the dishonest, lazy, and inefficient into their rightful
position, that of a worthless by-product in this great world of
recognition of true merit.

To the Suffragettes, Lawrence extended a most cordial invitation, but
stipulated that no representative would be received who had not borne
and raised twelve children, or were willing to appear at the meeting
without their hats, with hair cropped close to the head.

The date selected by Edestone was the Fourth day of July; the place, in
order to offend no one, was the beautiful valley of St. Nicholas in the
neutral country of the Swiss, and the Little Peace Maker, painted and
polished, was floating about twenty-five feet from the ground. About
one-quarter of her length from her stern, leading from an opening in her
bottom, ran a great flight of stairs which rested on a platform at their
foot. This was constructed in a manner similar to the cradle upon which
she was seen to rest by the King of England and his Cabinet. In this
manner she was connected with the earth but absolutely insulated.

To reach this platform one had to walk up four or five steps, which were
made of hard rubber, over which was laid a thick red velvet carpet,
which continued across the platform and up this most impressive flight
of stairs and disappeared into the opening in the Little Peace Maker.
Bands were playing, children were laughing, but not one soldier was to
be seen.

The Royalties, as they arrived, were received at the foot of the stairs
by Edestone and conducted to their apartments where, surrounded by their
secretaries and servants, they might live entirely alone, or could, if
they desired to do so, mingle with the rest of the distinguished
company.

It was to Paris that Basil had gone, and by the midnight train, as he
had intended. With his curious reserved habits, it would be months before
any suspicions would be aroused. Months! Everything could be destroyed
long before then.

A sudden thought struck him. He put on his fur coat and hat, and went out
into the hall. There he paused, hearing the slow heavy tread
of the policeman on the pavement outside, and seeing the flash of the
bull's-eye reflected in the window.

He waited, and held his breath.

After a few moments he drew back the latch, and slipped out,
shutting the door very gently behind him. Then he began ringing the bell.
In about five minutes his valet appeared half dressed, and looking very
drowsy.

"I am sorry to have had to wake you up, Francis," he said, stepping
in; "but I had forgotten my latch-key. What time is it?"
"Ten minutes past two, sir," answered the man, looking at the clock
and blinking.

"Ten minutes past two? How horribly late! You must wake me at nine
to-morrow.

I have some work to do."
"All right, sir."

"Did anyone call this evening?"

"Mr. Hallward, sir. He stayed here till eleven, and then he went away to
catch his train."

"Oh! I am sorry I didn't see him. Did he leave any message?"
"No, sir, except that he would write to you from Paris, if he did
not find you at the club."

"That will do, Francis. Don't forget to call me at nine to-morrow."
"No, sir."
The man shambled down the passage in his slippers.

Dorian Gray threw his hat and coat upon the table, and passed into the
library. For a quarter of an hour he walked up and down the room biting
his lip, and thinking. Then he took down the Blue Book from one of the
shelves, and began to turn over the leaves. "Alan Campbell, 152, Hertford
Street, Mayfair." Yes; that was the man he wanted.

CHAPTER XIV

At nine o'clock the next morning his servant came in with a cup of chocolate
on a tray, and opened the shutters.

Dorian was sleeping quite peacefully, lying on his right side, with
one hand underneath his cheek.

He looked like a boy who had been tired out with play, or
study.

The man had to touch him twice on the shoulder before he woke, and as
he opened his eyes a faint smile passed across his lips, as though he
had been lost in some delightful dream. Yet he had not dreamed at all.
His night had been untroubled by any images of pleasure or of pain. But
youth smiles without any reason. It is one of its chiefest charms.

He turned round, and, leaning upon his elbow, began to sip his
chocolate. The mellow November sun came streaming into the room.
The sky was bright, and there was a genial warmth in the air. It
was almost like a morning in May.
Gradually the events of the preceding night crept with silent
blood-stained feet into his brain, and reconstructed themselves
there with terrible distinctness. He winced at the memory of all
that he had suffered, and for a moment the same curious feeling of
loathing for Basil Hallward that had made him kill him as he sat
in the chair, came back to him, and he grew cold with passion. The
dead man was still sitting there, too, and in the sunlight now. How
horrible that was! Such hideous things were for the darkness, not
for the day.The title of the portion of the world allotted to them was based not
upon the claims of any barbarian of antiquity, fanatic of the Middle
Ages, or the war lords of modern times, but upon the decision of the
Board of Directors, which would annul all previous titles and be final
and irrevocable.

If at any time any one or group of these left the portion of the earth
to which they had been restricted, they lost all of their rights as
citizens of the world, and while visiting the other sections must bow
absolutely to the will of those whose hospitality they were accepting.

In the case of those nations who had no home, and who had been parasites
on the nations of the earth for thousands of years, it was proposed that
they purchase from the country now holding the cradle of their birth a
home sufficiently large to accommodate their ever-increasing numbers
under the hygienic and healthful condition of the countries which they
swarmed.

John at first would not consent, but at last he gave way and went with
Tom, taking Carlo with him.

There was a pretty stream of water that ran along one side
of the green, and then passed through a wood in a winding course.Therefore, he stated, that all religions which had been
established up to the beginning of the nineteenth century might be
allowed to continue, but all others, being drawn on rather too
scientific and financial lines, were to be eliminated.

Coming to the last, and, as he expressed it, the cause of the present
war, namely, Riches, he showed that in the new form of government
competition would be eliminated, the interest of the whole being
controlled by one head with power to police, and greater profits to all
would accrue by the elimination of waste of time and money and by the
efficiency of a single administration.

There he is king, as I am here," and he began to laugh. "You have surely
seen the political prisoners. You have surely given them money," he
added, smiling.
"Isn't it so?"
"Yes, it is true." 
"I understand that you must act in this way.In the meantime, Lawrence was addressing an assemblage of Reds,
I. W. W.'s, Prohibitionists, and other thoughtful members of society. To
these he was serving grape juice and patent medicines. The percentage
of alcohol in these beverages quieted the nerves of most, but rendered
the Prohibitionists quite hilarious. They listened with much attention
and applauded violently the scheme which he outlined before them.

"You should be allowed," he said, "to settle in the middle of the Desert
of Sahara, where you could all live in beautiful glass houses, and where
the soil produces no stones of a throwable size. There will be no
saloons there, clubs or dinner parties, but drugstores with their
alluring lights will decorate every corner. There with your palates
parching with pain your motto should be 'Speak Easy' for the sake of the
Cause. The lives of the inhabitants will be regulated by priestesses and
preachers, and to them will be submitted the most intimate affairs of
the family. Yours will be a maternal government; to each member of every
family the Government will daily, after taking the temperature, issue
canton flannel underclothes of the proper weight to be worn during the
day. Attaining the locality, however, they were amazed to find all
the traces of a previous occupation. Several sheds, formed of bamboo
hurdles set up against the ground with sticks, like traps, were grouped
together. Under each was a hearth, a simple excavation, two feet
across and a few inches deep, and filled with ashes. A few arrows,
feathers and rude pieces of pottery were scattered around.

They greeted these Indian relics as Crusoe did the footprints of the
savages."I, too, am very fond of dogs, but as it is absolutely
necessary for the progress of science to make experiments upon living
subjects, I call upon you to volunteer for this work for all portions of
the body except the brain; for that portion I am creditably informed
that the doctors would prefer to use wood pulp."

This was received with violent protestations of disapproval by the
Cubists, the Futurists, and the Post-Impressionists, who claimed that
this was entirely unnecessary, as they were able in their pictures to
reveal the most secret workings of the brain, and that upon their
canvases they laid bare for the study of the scientific world all that
it was necessary for it to know.

To the representatives of the Allied A.M.L.Q. American Architects, he
expressed his most sincere thanks for the kind expression of their
approval and offer of assistance, and in recognition of their
co-operation, he gave them entire charge of the competition for the
laying out and decorating, with befitting whirlwind monuments, hot air
fountains, and castles in the air, the great Edestone aerial highway
which was to encircle the globe.

The names were transcribed to match the original text except where
typos are assumed to have caused the variations. Changes from
the original are noted below, except for minor punctuation corrections.

Absence changed to absent from original sentence (Part 1, Ch.Fortunately, however, for the welfare of the great
mass of the people of the world, they were well represented by the
strong, serious, and intelligent-looking men who sat at the elbow
of this consanguineous group, some of whom had by a process of
intermarrying degenerated into mere effigies of the strong men from
whom they were descended. These powers behind the tottering thrones
of Europe realized and bowed before the inevitable.


FINIS