"But I regret much that you should have borrowed a tradesman's money,
and more that you should have offered to pay the debt by marrying his
daughter." Through it all, however, there was a feeling present to
Sir Thomas that he was, in truth, angry with the Squire of Newton,
not so much for his misconduct in coming to propose to Mary so soon
after the affair with Polly Neefit, but because he had not come to
propose to Clarissa. And Sir Thomas knew that such a feeling, if it
did really exist, must be overcome. Mary was entitled to her chance,
and must make the best of it. He would not refuse his sanction to a
marriage with his niece on account of Ralph's misconduct, when he
would have sanctioned a marriage with his own daughter in spite of
that misconduct. The conversation was ended by Sir Thomas leaving
the room with a promise that Miss Bonner should be sent to fill his
place. In five minutes Miss Bonner was there. She entered the room
very slowly, with a countenance that was almost savage, and during
the few minutes that she remained there she did not sit down.

"Sir Thomas has told you why I am here?" he said, advancing towards
her, and taking her hand.

"No; that is;--no. He has not told me."

"Mary--"

"Mr. Newton, my name is Miss Bonner."

"And must it between us be so cold as that?" He still had her by the
hand, which she did not at the moment attempt to withdraw. "I have
come to tell you, at the first moment that was possible to me after
my uncle's death, that of all women in the world I love you the
best."

Then she withdrew her hand. "Mr. Newton, I am sorry to hear you say
so;--very sorry."

"Why should you be sorry? If you are unkind to me like this, there
may be reason why I should be sorry. I shall, indeed, be very sorry.
Since I first saw you, I have hoped that you would be my wife."

"I never can be your wife, Mr. Newton."

"Why not? Have I done anything to offend you? Being here as one of
the family you must know enough of my affairs to feel sure,--that I
have come to you the first moment that was possible. I did not dare
to come when I thought that my position was one that was not worthy
of you."

"It would have been the same at any time," said Mary.

"And why should you reject me,--like this; without a moment's
thought?"

"For two reasons," said Mary, slowly, and then she paused, as though
doubting whether she would continue her speech, or give the two
reasons which now guided her. But he stood, looking into her face,
waiting for them. "In the first place," she said, "I think you are
untrue to another person." Then she paused again, as though asking
herself whether that reason would not suffice. But she resolved that
she would be bold, and give the other. "In the next place, my heart
is not my own to give."

"Is it so?" asked Ralph.

"I have said as much as can be necessary,--perhaps more, and I would
rather go now." Then she left the room with the same slow, stately
step, and he saw her no more on that day.

Then in those short five minutes Sir Thomas had absolutely told
her the whole story about Polly Neefit, and she had come to the
conclusion that because in his trouble he had offered to marry a
tradesman's daughter, therefore he was to be debarred from ever
receiving the hand of a lady! That was the light in which he looked
upon Mary's first announcement. As to the second announcement he was
absolutely at a loss. There must probably, he thought, have been some
engagement before she left Jamaica. Not the less on that account was
it an act of unpardonable ill-nature on the part of Sir Thomas,--that
telling of Polly Neefit's story to Mary Bonner at such a moment.

He was left alone for a few minutes after Mary's departure, and then
Patience came to him. Would he stay for dinner? Even Patience was
very cold to him. Sir Thomas was fatigued and was lying down, but
would see him, of course, if he wished it. "And where is Clarissa?"
asked Ralph. Patience said that Clarissa was not very well. She also
was lying down. "I see what it is," said Ralph, turning upon her
angrily. "You are, all of you, determined to quarrel with me because
of my uncle's death."

"I do not see why that should make us quarrel," said Patience. "I do
not know that any one has quarrelled with you."

Of course he would not wait for dinner, nor would he have any lunch.
He walked out on to the lawn with something of a bluster in his step,
and stood there for three or four minutes looking up at the house and
speaking to Patience. A young man when he has been rejected by one
of the young ladies of a family has rather a hard time of it till he
gets away. "Well, Patience," he said at last, "make my farewells for
me." And then he was gone.


CHAPTER XXXIX.

HORSELEECHES.


The honour of representing the borough of Percycross in Parliament
was very great, and Sir Thomas, no doubt, did enjoy it after a
fashion; but it was by no means an unalloyed pleasure. While he
was still in bed with his broken arm at the Percy Standard, many
applications for money had been made to him. This man wanted a
sovereign, that man a five-pound-note, and some poor starving wretch
a half-a-crown; and they all came to him with notes from Trigger,
or messages from Spicer or Spiveycomb, to the effect that as the
election was now over, the money ought to be given. The landlord of
the Percy Standard was on such occasions very hard upon him. "It
really will do good, Sir Thomas." "It is wanted, Sir Thomas." "It
will make a good feeling in the town, Sir Thomas, and we don't know
how soon we may have to go to work again." Sir Thomas was too weak in
health to refuse. He gave the sovereigns, the five-pound-notes, and
the half-crowns, and hurried back home as quickly as he was able.

But things were almost worse with him at home than at Percycross.
The real horseleeches felt that they could hardly get a good hold
of him while he was lying at the Percycross inn. Attacks by letter
were, they well knew, more fatal than those made personally, and they
waited. The first that came was from Mr. Pabsby. Mr. Pabsby had at
last seen his way clear, and had voted for Underwood and Westmacott,
absolutely throwing away his vote as far as the cause was concerned.
But Mr. Pabsby had quarrelled with Griffenbottom, who once, when
pressed hard for some favours, had answered the reverend gentleman
somewhat roughly. "You may go and be ----," said Mr. Griffenbottom
in his wrath, "and tell everybody in Percycross that I said so."
Mr. Pabsby had smiled, had gone away, and had now voted for Mr.
Westmacott. Mr. Pabsby was indeed a horseleech of the severest
kind. There had been some outward show of reconciliation between
Griffenbottom and Pabsby; but Pabsby had at last voted for Underwood
and Westmacott. Sir Thomas had not been home two days before he
received a letter from Mr. Pabsby. "It had been with infinite
satisfaction,"--so Mr. Pabsby now said,--"that he had at length seen
his way clearly, and found himself able to support his friend Sir
Thomas. Thisbe. O wall, often you have heard the sighs of mine Mein'n
Pyramus beautiful because you disconnect from me My mouth is often red
geküsset your stone, your 'stone' with hair and glue geküttet on in
you. Pyramus. A 'vote' thu I see, I want to slit 'and see if I can
not hear mein'r Thisbe Antliz clear. Thisbe! Thisbe. Diss is my
Schaz! Mein Liebchen ists! indeed. Pyramus. willt what you think,
it's me, you ensure kanst trust me. And I'm like lemon faithful
in my duty. Thisbe. And I like Helen, till the death stabs me.
Pyramus. Schefelus So true was his Procrus not! Thisbe. Procrus
How Scheflus loves' lieb 'ich thy countenance. Pyramus. O Küss me
through the hole from this garst'gen wall! Thisbe. My only kiss meets
the hole, not the edge of your lips. Pyramus. Willt du Bey Ninnys
grave tonight to meet me. Thisbe. Sey's alive or Todt, I come when I
kan. wall. So I now mein'n Wall Part gemachet good, And now so does
Wall hinwegbegeben. (Geht ab.) Theseus. Thus, the vaginal wall
between neighbors beyden suddenly fallen. Demetrius. No wonder Mylord
because they were so willing to up. Hippolita. miserable stuff I've
never heard.

Theseus. The best in this manner is only the shadow, and the worst is
no worse, if his imagination nachhilft. Hippolita. So there is
your imagination Seyn, not theirs. Theseus. If we do not think worse
of them than they of themselves, they may pass for vortrefliche people.
Here zwey noble beasts, in the person of a man and a lion. (Leo
and Mondschein occur.) Lion. My lady, whose heart is afraid the
smallest mouse in monstroser G'stalt does float to the ground, let
IZO undoubtedly tremble and shake, When lion rough from Wuthe lets out
his roar. So know then that I Schnok Hans, the carpenter'm not evil
nor indeed Löw wife of a lion, because would I as a lion and Harm
had in mind, Sun daurte, my faith! I am only my body g'rader.
Theseus. A polite beast, and quite conscientious. Lysander. This is
a perfect lion fox to hearty. Theseus. That is true, and a goose at
Discretion. Demetrius. Not so, Mylord, because his hearty can not
master his discretion, as a fox of a goose. Theseus. Without doubt,
its discretion can not be his hearty bemeistern because a goose
bemeistert no fox. Good! we want to make it his discretion, and
IZT hear what the moon has to say. moonlight. wolgehörnten The
Moon Lantern d'z'erkennen giebt. Demetrius. He should have the horns
on his forehead bear. Theseus. He is not in increase and its horns
Stekene invisible in the periphery. moonlight. wolgehörnten the moon
lantern d'z'erkennen giebt, I myself the man in the moon, you'll wofern
popular. Theseus. This is still the biggest error of all, it would
have been the man in the lantern Sezen be, how else can he the
man in the moons Seyn? Demetrius. He should not because of the
candle, so you see that it is already loud Buzen. Hippolita. The moon
makes me long while, I wanted to, he changed. Theseus. It looks
at his bescheidnen light that he is losing weight, out of courtesy
and to litigation, we must now wait until the end. Lysander. Come
out better, the moon! moonlight. All I have to say is you to report
that the lantern is the moon and I, the man in the moon, this thorn
bush my thorn bush, and this dog, my dog. Demetrius. All these things
should therefore, in the lantern Seyn.

But silent ways; the point here Thisbe. (Thisbe occurs.) Thisbe.

Griffenbottom in that strain had been repeated to Sir Thomas; and,
after many such words, Sir Thomas could not go to Mr. Griffenbottom
for advice as to what he should give, or refuse to give. He doubted
whether better reliance could be placed on Mr. Trigger;--but to
some one he must go for direction. Were he once to let it be known
in Percycross that demands made would be satisfied, he might sign
cheques to the extent of his whole fortune, during his first session.
He did write to Mr. Trigger, enclosing the various Percycross
applications; and Mr. Trigger duly replied to him. Mr. Trigger
regretted that money had been given to Mr. Pabsby. Mr. Pabsby had
been of no use, and could be of no use. Mr. Griffenbottom, who knew
the borough better than any one else, had understood this well when
on one occasion he had been "a little short" with Mr. Pabsby. Sir
Thomas ought not to have sent that cheque to Mr. Pabsby. The sending
it would do infinite harm, and cause dissensions in the borough,
which might require a considerable expenditure to set right. As to
the other clerical demands, it seemed to Sir Thomas that Mr. Trigger
was of opinion that they should all be gratified. He had, in fact,
sent his money to the only person in Percycross who ought not to have
received money. The £50 for the old women was a matter of course,
and would not be begrudged, as it was the only payment which was
absolutely annual. In regard to the schools, Sir Thomas could do
what he pleased; but the sitting members had always been liberal to
the schools. Schools were things to which sitting members were, no
doubt, expected to subscribe. As to the question of French boots, Mr.
That has over time also infinitely much of its natural beauty and
youthful Anmuth taking important, but it has agility, speed, subtlety
of expression, term focus, increased number of combinations to
substitute for it exchanged. The Lower Saxon language, however,
their youth and strength of steel lost without a sense of delicacy
and inner to win. Their grammatical forms were destroyed, and an
even higher grade than that of the sister languages, but without
that one could say that the fermentation process of sharp antiheidnischen
neueuropäischen Bildungsfermente on the resolution made some Antheil,
but clear and cloudy dull weathering, including wood and stone and
everything inanimate or gradually dying abnagt and pits. When
the Old High German language in the Middle High German possession,
looked at it as a winner at the tournament sites around the
German spirit, she was to become without a struggle. Language
of the most powerful and kunstliebendsten imperial family, she
lived in the mouth of the princes, knights, singers with and
without Sporn, singers with and without the crown, which the
elegant literature of their age-founded, she was, what more to say,
the language of the Nibelungenlied and other German national
poetry, which with the exception of those ancient relics ever Theil
and some only in late Uebersetzung in Plattsburgh schriftsässig were
Germans.

Bann What, I ask, was over the Lower Saxon literature? same spell
over the people and its history was. There should be a powerful
natural force that once those stem soulful, slow and inflexible and
dimmer as the sediment of the Germanic spirit behind.
Then
had come a further letter from Mr. Trigger, announcing his journey
to London, and Mr. Trigger and Sir Thomas had their first meeting
after the election, immediately upon Mr. Neefit's departure from the
chambers. "And is it to be?" asked Stemm, as soon as he had closed
the door behind Mr. Trigger's back.

"Is what to be?"

"Them petitions, Sir Thomas? Petitions costs a deal of money they
tell me, Sir Thomas." Sir Thomas winced. "I suppose you must go on
now as your hand is in," continued Stemm.

"I don't know that at all," said Sir Thomas.

"You'll find as you must. There ain't no way out of it;--not now as
you are the sitting member."

"I am not going to ruin myself, Stemm, for the sake of a seat in
Parliament."

"I don't know how that may be, Sir Thomas. I hope not, Sir Thomas.
But I don't see how you're not to go on now, Sir Thomas. If it wasn't
for petitions, one wouldn't mind."

"There must be petitions, of course; and if there be good cause for
them, they should succeed."

"No doubt, Sir Thomas. They say the bribery at Percycross was
tremenjous;--but I suppose it was on the other side."

"If it was on our side, Stemm, it was not so with my knowledge. I did
all I could to prevent it. I spoke against it whenever I opened my
mouth. I would not have given a shilling for a single vote, though it
would have got me the election."

"But they were not all that way, Sir Thomas;--was they?"

"How can I tell? No;--I know that they were not. I fear they were
not. I cannot say that money was given, but I fear it."

"You must go on now, Sir Thomas, any way," said Stemm with a groan
that was not reassuring.

"I wish I had never heard the name of Percycross," said Sir Thomas.

"I dare say," replied Stemm.

"I went there determined to keep my hands clean."

"When one puts one's hand into other people's business, they won't
come out clean," said the judicious Stemm. "But you must go on with
it now, any way, Sir Thomas."

"I don't know what I shall do," said the unhappy member.

On the next morning there came another application from Percycross.
The postmaster in that town had died suddenly, and the competitors
for the situation, which was worth about £150 per annum, were very
numerous. There was a certain Mr. O'Blather, only known in Percycross
as cousin to one Mrs. Givantake, the wife of a liberal solicitor in
the borough. Of Mr. O'Blather the worst that could be said was that
at the age of forty he had no income on which to support himself.
Mrs. Givantake was attached to her cousin, and Mr. Givantake had
become sensible of a burden. That the vacant office was just
the thing for him appeared at a glance to all his friends. Mrs.
Givantake, in her energy on the subject, expressed an opinion that
the whole Cabinet should be impeached if the just claims of Mr.
O'Blather were not conceded. But it was felt that the justice of
the claims would not prevail without personal interest. The liberal
party was in power, and application, hot and instant, was made to Mr.
Westmacott. Mr. Westmacott was happy enough to have his answer ready.
The Treasury had nothing to do with the matter. It was a Post Office
concern; and he, simply as the late liberal member, and last liberal
candidate for the borough, was not entitled to intrude, even in a
matter of patronage, upon the Postmaster-General, with whom he was
not acquainted. But Mr. Westmacott was malicious as well as secure.
He added a postscript to his letter, in which he said that he
believed the present sitting member, Sir Thomas Underwood, was
intimately acquainted with the noble lord who presided at the Post
Office. We will only hold the fact that the CV of single-celled
organism once the great hour comes, where in the cell after it
is grown, the core of all sorts of changes shows that finally
pointed beyond that of the core in two parts and while the whole
protoplasm of the cell body into the long stretch begins. Then
gets the cell is necking in the middle, almost as if the body of
protoplasm with a noose would zusammengeschnürt. Jederseits by the
constriction, we see one of the two core halves are - and since
everyone already has the impression that because two amoebae from
one emerged.

   Only through a narrow bridge connecting the east and they are linked.

   After tearing the narrow bridge and two small amoebae are each their
own way (Fig. 9).

   All in all, the process of sharing a few minutes or
   hours and even days - this is in the various leagues are not equal.

   From
   the "mother cell" are two "daughter cells" emerged - two younger
amoebas, the very same mother, but are smaller than this.

   Then the daughter cells grow up and each of them divided into two
parts, divided into two daughter amoebae.

   And it goes so on - ad infinitum ...

[Illustration: Figure 9 Division in amoeba. The protoplasm of the
amoeba body you can see the darker core and the pulsating vesicle
(vacuole). You can see the feet of the slip amoeba. 1, 2, 3, 4,
5 p.m. to 6 p.m. various stages of division. See explanation
in the text. By F. E. Schultze.] Really into infinity? We will soon
see how important this issue is to us.
Trigger
explained that it was inexpedient that such meetings should take
place at hotels. There was no place so fitting as a lawyer's
chambers. Sir Thomas, who regarded as a desecration the entrance
of one such man as Mr. Trigger into his private room, and who
was particularly anxious not to fall into any intimacy with Mr.
Griffenbottom, was driven to consent, and at one o'clock on the
29th, Stemm was forced to admit the deputation. The deputation from
Percycross consisted of Mr. Trigger, Mr. Spicer, and Mr. Pile; but
with them came also the senior sitting member. At first they were all
very grave, and Sir Thomas asked them, indiscreetly, whether they
would take a glass of sherry. Pile and Spicer immediately acceded
to this proposition, and sherry was perhaps efficacious in bringing
about speedy conversation.

"Well, Underwood," said Mr. Griffenbottom, "it seems that after all
we are to have these d---- petitions." Sir Thomas lifted his left
foot on his right knee, and nursed his leg,--but said nothing. On one
point he was resolved;--nothing on earth should induce him to call
his colleague Griffenbottom.

"No doubt about that, Mr. Griffenbottom," said Mr. Pile, "--that is,
unless we can make Westmacott right. T'other chap wouldn't be of much
account."

"Mr. Pile, you're going a little too fast," said Trigger.

"No, I ain't," said Mr. Pile. But for the moment he allowed himself
to be silenced.

"We don't like the looks of it at Percycross," said Mr. Spicer.

"And why don't we like the looks of it?" asked Sir Thomas.

"I don't know what your idea of pleasure is," said Mr. Griffenbottom,
"but I don't take delight in spending money for nothing. I have spent
enough, I can tell you, and I don't mean to spend much more. My seat
was as safe as the Church."

"But they have petitioned against that as well as mine," said Sir
Thomas.

"Yes;--they have. And now what's to be done?"

"I don't know whether Sir Thomas is willing to take the whole cost of
the defence upon himself," said Mr. Trigger, pouring out for himself
a second glass of sherry.

"No, I am not," said Sir Thomas. Whereupon there was a pause, during
which Pile and Spicer also took second glasses of sherry. "Why should
I pay the cost of defending Mr. Griffenbottom's seat?"

"Why should I pay it?" said Griffenbottom. "My seat was safe enough.
The fact is, if money was paid,--as to which I know nothing,--it was
paid to get the second seat. Everybody knows that. Why should any
one have paid money for me? I was safe. I never have any difficulty;
everybody knows that. I could come in for Percycross twenty times
running, without buying a vote. Isn't that true, Trigger?"

"I believe you could, Mr. Griffenbottom."

"Of course I could. Look here, Underwood--"

"I beg your pardon for one moment, Mr. Griffenbottom," said Sir
Thomas. "Will you tell me, Mr. Trigger, whether votes were bought
on my behalf?" Mr. Trigger smiled, and put his head on one side,
but made no answer. "I wish I might be allowed to hear the truth,"
continued Sir Thomas. Whereupon Spicer grinned, and Mr. Pile looked
as though he were about to be sick. How was it that a set of
gentlemen, who generally knew their business so well as did the
political leaders at Percycross, had got themselves into the same
boat with a man silly enough to ask such a question as that?

"I shan't spend money," said Griffenbottom; "it's out of the
question. They can't touch me. I've spent my money, and got my
article. If others want the article, they must spend theirs."

Mr. Trigger thought it might be as well to change the subject for a
moment, or, at any rate, to pass on to another clause of the same
bill. "I was very sorry, Sir Thomas," said he, "that you wrote that
letter to Mr. Givantake."

"I wrote no letter to Mr. Givantake. A man named Piper addressed me."

"Well, well, well; that's the same thing. It was Givantake, though of
course he isn't going to sign his name to everything. If you could
just have written a line to your friend the Postmaster-General, I
really think we could have squared it all."

"I wouldn't have made a request so improper for all Percycross," said
Sir Thomas.

"Patronage is open to everybody," suggested Mr. Griffenbottom.

"Those sort of favours are asked every day," said Trigger.

"We live in a free country," said Spicer.

"Givantake is a d---- scoundrel all the same," said Mr. Pile; "and
as for his wife's Irish cousin, I should be very sorry to leave my
letters in his hands."

"It wouldn't have come off, Mr. Pile," said Trigger, "but the request
might have been made. If Sir Thomas will allow me to say as much, the
request ought to have been made."

"I will allow nothing of the kind, Mr. Trigger," said Sir Thomas,
with an assumption of personal dignity which caused everyone in the
room to alter his position in his chair. "I understand these things
are given by merit." Mr. Trigger smiled, and Mr. Griffenbottom
laughed outright. "At any rate, they ought to be, and in this office
I believe they are." Mr. Griffenbottom, who had had the bestowal of
some local patronage, laughed again.

"The thing is over now, at any rate," said Mr. Trigger.

"I saw Givantake yesterday," said Spicer. "He won't stir a finger
now."

"He never would have stirred a finger," said Mr. Pile; "and if he'd
stirred both his fistesses, he wouldn't have done a ha'porth of good.
Givantake, indeed! He be blowed!" There was a species of honesty
about Mr. Pile which almost endeared him to Sir Thomas.

"Something must be settled," said Trigger.

"I thought you'd got a proposition to make," said Spicer.

"Well, Sir Thomas," began Mr. Trigger, as it were girding his loins
for the task before him, "we think that your seat wouldn't stand
the brunt. Thank God! the Sud verdampfet In the boiler, the whole
gradually silenced. It differs my Spleen, My westöstlich darker
Spleen - My Fair Flügelrößlein neighed Again, it seems the evil
Nachtalp itself off, and the wise eyes ask: Let us move back to
Spain to the little Talmudic, The was a great poet, Yehuda ben Too
Halevy Yes, he was a great poet, absolute ruler of the world dream
of ghosts with royal crown, a poet by the grace of God, The Holy
Sirventen, madrigals and Terzinen, Kanzonetten and Ghaselen all
flames poured out His soul gottgeküßten!

Lo equal Troubadour This was the best sound of the beaters Provence,
Poitous and Guienne, Roussillon and all other sweeteners Pomeranzenlande
The galant Christendom.

The gallant Christianity Süße Pomeranzenlande! How they smell,
shine, sound in the twilight of Erinnrung! Beautiful Nightingale
world, where instead of the true God is only the false god of And
love of the Muses angebeten.

Clerici with rosaries On the bald sang psalms in the Clear Language
d'oc; And the laity, noble knight, pride on high Rossen trabend,
verse and rhymes Spintisierten to glorification of the queen, your
heart cheerfully served.

Without love no lady, And it was the minstrel's Indispensable a
lady, How the butter the butter.

Even the hero, we besingen, Jehuda ben Halevy also had his heart
queen, but she was besondrer Art She was no Laura, whose eyes,
mortal stars, in the Dome on Good Friday donated the famous brand
- it was not Chatelain, The flower of youth Jewelry In tournaments
presided And the laurel wreath given - No Kußrechtskasuistin Was
she not Doktrinärrin, saying in The College teaches Minnehofs One
- That the Rabbi loved Was a sad poor Liebchen, The Destruction
Jammer effigy, And they called Jerusalem.

Already in the early childhood days, it was all his love, His heart
did quake Even the word Jerusalem. purple flame on the cheek, as
the boy, and he listened, If a pilgrim came to Toledo from distant
morning landing and told how verunreint And now deserted the place,
Where on the ground nor the light track from the foot of the
prophets - where the air still balsamieret Of ewgen the breath
of God - O sight of woe!

Once called a pilgrim, whose white beard hinabfloß silver, while
the beard hair on the head re-blackened and it looked as if
the beard rejuvenation - A strange pilgrims even liked it, his
eyes lugten As tausendjährgem gloom, And he sighs' "Jerusalem!" You,
the populous city is heilge to become wasteland, Where Waldteufel,
werewolf, Jackal your wicked beings drive - »snakes, Nachtgevögel
nest in weathered walls; From the window arch luftgem look the fox
with complacency."

Here and sometimes appears as a ripped servant of the Desert, The
höckriges his camel in the high grass pasture.

"On the noble height of Zion, where the golden celebrations stood, Their
glories witnessed by the grandeur of the great King," There, overgrown
by weeds, If there are only gray rubble, the painfully handsome
us sad that we must believe that they were crying. "And it means
they really cried once in the year, on that ninth day of the month
- and with watery eyes are" I looked thick drops From the large
stones seep, And I heard weheklagen The gebrochnen temple pillars. "-
- Such pious pilgrims Tell awoke in the young breast Des Jehuda
ben Halevy longing for Jerusalem. poet longing! ahnend, dreaming
And it was fatal, such as those on his castle Blaye once felt the
old Vidám, knives Geoffroi Rudello, when the knight who returned
from the Orient returned, according to the cup Klang asserts: Ausbund
all grace and breeding, Perl and flower of all women, whether the
beautiful Melisande, countess of Tripoli.

From the first moment of his entering Percycross
he had felt that the place was not fit for him, that it required a
method of canvassing of which he was not only ignorant, but desirous
to remain ignorant,--that at Percycross he would only be a catspaw in
the hands of other men. He knew that he could not safely get into the
same boat with Mr. Griffenbottom, or trust himself to the steering of
such a coxswain as Mr. Trigger. He had found that there could be no
sympathy between himself and any one of those who constituted his own
party in the borough. And yet he had persevered. He had persevered
because in such matters it is so difficult to choose the moment in
which to recede. He had persevered,--and had attained a measure of
success. As far as had been possible for him to do so, he had fought
his battle with clean hands, and now he was member of Parliament for
Percycross. Let what end there might come to this petition,--even
though his seat should be taken from him,--he could be subjected to
no personal disgrace. He could himself give evidence, the truth of
which no judge in the land would doubt, as to the purity of his own
intentions, and as to the struggle to be pure which he had made. And
now they asked him to give way in order that Mr. Griffenbottom might
keep his seat!

He felt that he and poor Moggs had been fools together. At this
moment there came upon him a reflection that such men as he and Moggs
were unable to open their mouths in such a borough as Percycross
without having their teeth picked out of their jaws. He remembered
well poor Moggs's legend, "Moggs, Purity, and the Rights of Labour;"
and he remembered thinking at the time that neither Moggs nor he
should have come to Percycross. And now he was told of all that the
borough had done for him, and was requested to show his gratitude by
giving up his seat,--in order that Griffenbottom might still be a
member of Parliament, and that Percycross might not be disfranchised!
Did he feel any gratitude to Percycross or any love to Mr.
Griffenbottom? In his heart he desired that Mr. Griffenbottom might
be made to retire into private life, and he knew that it would be
well that the borough should be disfranchised.

These horrid men that sat around him,--how he hated them! He could
get rid of them now, now and for ever, by acceding to the proposition
made to him. And he thought that in doing so he could speak a few
words which would be very agreeable to him in the speaking. And then
all that Mr. Trigger had said about the £1,500 had been doubtless
true. If he defended his seat money must be spent, and he did not
know how far he might be able to compel Mr. Griffenbottom to share
the expense. He was not so rich but what he was bound to think of the
money, for his children's sake. And he did believe Mr. Trigger, when
Mr. Trigger told him that the seat could not be saved.

Yet he could not bring himself to let these men have their way with
him. To have to confess that he had been their tool went so much
against the grain with him that anything seemed to him to be
preferable to that. The passage across his brain of all these
thoughts had not required many seconds, and his guests seemed to
acknowledge by their silence that some little space of time should be
allowed to him. Mr. Pile was leaning forward on his stick with his
eyes fixed upon Sir Thomas's face. Mr. Spicer was amusing himself
with a third glass of sherry. Mr. Griffenbottom had assumed a look of
absolute indifference, and was sitting with his eyes fixed upon the
ceiling. Mr. Trigger, with a pleasant smile on his face, was leaning
back in his chair with his hands in his trousers pockets. He had done
his disagreeable job of work, and upon the whole he thought that he
had done it well.

"I shall do nothing of the kind," said Sir Thomas at last.

"You'll be wrong, Sir Thomas," said Mr. Trigger.

"You'll disfranchise the borough," said Mr. Spicer.

"You'll not be able to keep your seat," said Mr. Trigger.

"And there'll be all the money to pay," said Mr. Spicer.

"Sir Thomas don't mind that," said Mr. Griffenbottom.

"As for paying the money, I do mind it very much," said Sir Thomas.
"As for disfranchising the borough, I cannot say that I regard it in
the least. As to your seat, Mr. Griffenbottom--"

"My seat is quite safe," said the senior member.

In the other world of Swedenborg are also the poor Greenlanders feel
comfortable that once, when the Danish missionaries wanted to convert
it to this question directed: whether it is in the Christian heaven,
there would also seals? On the negative response she said sorrowfully:
the Christian heaven then do not apply to Greenland, which does
not exist without the seals could.

What ruffles our souls against the idea of Aufhörens our personality,
the eternal destruction!

"You have made a proposition to me, Mr. Trigger, and I have given you
my answer. I have nothing else to say. What steps I may take I do not
even know at present."

"You will let us hear from you," said Mr. Trigger.

"I cannot say that I will."

"This comes of bringing a gentleman learned in the law down into the
borough," said Mr. Griffenbottom.

"Gentlemen, I must ask you to leave me," said Sir Thomas, rising from
his chair and ringing the bell.

"Look here, Sir Thomas Underwood," said Mr. Griffenbottom. "This to
me is a very important matter."

