Produced by David Edwards, Roberta Staehlin and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This
file was produced from scans of public domain material
produced by Microsoft for their Live Search Books site.)


The Varmint

[Illustration]

OWEN JOHNSON


  The Varmint

  By OWEN JOHNSON

  Author of "The Prodigious Hickey," "Stover at Yale,"
  "The Humming Bird," "Tennessee Shad," etc.

  WITH FOUR ILLUSTRATIONS
  BY F. R. GRUGER

  A. L. BURT COMPANY
  PUBLISHERS NEW YORK

  COPYRIGHT, 1910, BY THE BAKER & TAYLOR COMPANY

  _Published, July, 1910_

  THE COUNTRY LIFE PRESS, GARDEN CITY, N. Y.


  TO

  Alexander Lambert, M.D.

  IN FRIENDSHIP, IN GRATITUDE, AND IN MEMORY OF MY WIFE.


THE VARMINT

[Illustration: "LIKE MY JIBS?" [In a low voice.]

Yes, your Worship.

MAGISTRATE.

And where is she now?

LIVENS. I don't know your Worship. She went off with a man, and after
that I----
MAGISTRATE. Yes, yes. Who knows anything of her? [To the bald CONSTABLE.]
Is she known here?

RELIEVING OFFICER. Not in this district, your Worship; but I have
ascertained that she is well known---- 
MAGISTRATE.

Yes--yes; we'll stop at that. Now [To the Father] you say that she has
broken up your home, and left these little girls.
What provision can you make for them?

You look a strong man.

LIVENS. So I am, your Worship. I'm willin' enough to work, but for the
life of me I can't get anything to do.

MAGISTRATE. But have you tried?

LIVENS. I've tried everything, your Worship--I 've tried my
'ardest.

MAGISTRATE. Well, well---- [There is a silence.]
RELIEVING OFFICER. If your Worship thinks it's a case, my people
are willing to take them.

MAGISTRATE. Yes, yes, I know; but I've no evidence that this man is
not the proper guardian for his children.

[He rises oval goes back to the fire.]

RELIEVING OFFICER. The mother, your Worship, is able to get access
to them.

MAGISTRATE. Yes, yes; the mother, of course, is an improper
person to have anything to do with them.

[To the Father.] Well, now what do you say?

LIVENS.

Your Worship, I can only say that if I could get work I should be
only too willing to provide for them.

But what can I do, your Worship?

Here I am obliged to live from 'and to mouth in these 'ere common
lodging-houses. I 'm a strong man--I'm willing to work --I'm half
as alive again as some of 'em--but you see, your Worship, my 'airs'
turned a bit, owing to the fever--[Touches his hair]--and that's
against me; and I don't seem to get a chance anyhow.
MAGISTRATE. Yes-yes. [Slowly.] Well, I think it 's a case.
[Staring his hardest at the little girls.] Now, are you willing
that these little girls should be sent to a home.
LIVENS. Yes, your Worship, I should be very willing.
MAGISTRATE. Well, I'll remand them for a week. Bring them again
to-day week; if I see no reason against it then, I 'll make an
order.

RELIEVING OFFICER. To-day week, your Worship.
[The bald CONSTABLE takes the little girls out by the shoulders.
The father follows them. The MAGISTRATE, returning to his seat,
bends over and talks to his CLERK inaudibly.]
BARTHWICK. [Speaking behind his hand.] A painful case, Roper; very
distressing state of things.

ROPER."Thanks, I'll cuddle here," said Stover, slipping into the seat next
to him, "just to look over the way you handle the ribbons and see if I
approve."

Jimmy, connoisseur of new arrivals, glanced behind at the only other
passenger, a man of consular mould, and then looked at Stover in
sardonic amusement.

"Don't look at me like that, old Sport," said Stover impressively;
"I've driven real coaches, sixteen horses, rip-snorters, and all that
sort of thing."

Jimmy, having guided the placid animals through the labyrinths of
Trenton, gave them the rein on the long highway that leads to
Lawrenceville and turned to examine Stover with new relish.

"Say, Bub," he said at length, "you're goin' to have a great time at
this little backwoods school--you're going to enjoy yourself."

"Think I'm fresh, eh?"

"Fresh?" said Jimmy thoughtfully. "Why, fresh ain't at all the word."

"Well, I can take care of myself."

"What did they fire you for?" said Jimmy, touching up the horses.

"Who said they fired me?" said Stover, surprised.

"Well, what was it?" said Jimmy, disdaining an explanation.

"They fired me," said Stover, hesitating a moment--"they fired me for
trying to kill a man."

"You don't say so!"

"I drew a knife on him," said Stover rapidly. "I'd 'a' done for him,
too, the coward, if they hadn't hauled me off."

At this there was a chuckle from the passenger behind who said with
great solemnity:

"Dear me, dear me, a dreadful state of affairs--quite thrilling."

"I saw red, everything--everything red," said Stover, breathing hard.

"What had he done to you?" said Jimmy, winking at Mr. Hopkins, alias
Lucius Cassius, alias The Roman, master of the Latin line and
distinguished flunker of boys.

"He insulted my--my mother."

"Your mother?"

"She--she's dead," said Stover in a stage voice he remembered.

At this Jimmy and Mr. Hopkins stopped, genuinely perplexed, and looked
hard at Stover.

"You don't mean it! Dear me," said The Roman, hesitating before a
possible blunder.

"It was long ago," said Stover, thrilling with the delight of
authorship. "She died in a ship-wreck to save me."

The Roman was nonplussed. There was always the possibility that the
story might be true.

"Ah, she gave her life to save yours, eh?" he said encouragingly.

"Held my head above water, breeches buoy and all that sort of thing,"
said Stover, remembering something in Dickens. "I was the only one
saved, me and the ship's cat."

"Well, well," said The Roman, with a return of confidence; "and your
father--is he alive?"

"Yes," said Stover, considering the distant woods; "but--but we don't
speak of him."

"Ah, pardon me," said The Roman, gazing on him with wonder. "Painful
memories--of course, of course. And what happened to your brother?"

Stover, perceiving the note of skepticism, turned and looked The Roman
haughtily in the face, then, turning to Jimmy, he said in a half
whisper:

"Who's the old buck, anyhow?"

Jimmy stiffened on the box as though he had received an electric
shock; then, biting his lips, he answered with a vicious lunge at the
horses:

"Oh, he comes back and forth every now and then."

They were now in the open country, rolling steadily past fields of
sprouting things, with the warm scent of new-plowed earth borne to
them on the gentle April breeze.

All of a sudden Stover seemed to dive sideways from the coach and
remained suspended by his razor-tipped patent-leathers.

"Hi, there!" cried Jimmy, bringing the coach to a stop with a jerk,
"what are you trying to do?"

Stover reappeared.

"Seeing if there are any females inside."

"What's that to you?" said Jimmy indignantly.

"Keep your eye peeled and I'll show you," said the urchin, standing
up, freeing his belt and unbuttoning his vest. In a moment, by a
series of contortions, he drew forth the three signs and proudly
displayed them.

"See these gilt ones," he said confidentially to the astounded Roman,
"got 'em in the open car; stood right up and unscrewed them--penal
offense, my boy. The tin one was easier, but it's a beaut. 'No
loitering on these premises.' Cast your eye over that," he added,
passing it to The Roman, who, as he gravely received it, gave Jimmy a
dig that cut short a fit of coughing.

"Pretty fine, eh?" said Stover.

"Em, yes, quite extraordinary--quite so."

"And what do you think of these?" continued Stover, producing two
silver nickel-plated knobs ravished from the washbasin. "'Pull and
Push'--that's my motto. Say, Bill, how does that strike you?"

The Roman examined them and handed them back.

"You'll find it rather--rather slow at the school, won't you?"

"Oh, I'll put ginger into it."

"Indeed."

"What's your line of goods, old Sport?" said Stover, examining Mr.
Hopkins with a knowing eye.

"Books," said The Roman with a slight jerk of his thin lips.

"I see!"

Jimmy stopped the horses and went behind, ostensibly to see if the
door was swinging.

"Let me drive?" said Stover, fidgeting after a moment's contemplation
of Jimmy's method. "I'll show you a thing or two."

"Oh, you will, will you?"

"Let's have 'em."

Jimmy looked inquiringly at Mr. Hopkins and, receiving a nod,
transferred the reins and whip to Stover, who immediately assumed a
Wild West attitude and said patronizingly:

"Say, you don't get the speed out of 'em."

"I don't, eh?"

"Naw."

They were at that moment reaching the brink of a hill, with a sharp
though short descent below.

"In my country," said Stover professionally, "we call a man who uses a
brake a candy dude. The trick is to gallop 'em down the hills. Hang
on!"

Before he could be stopped he sprang up with an ear-splitting
war-whoop and brought the whip down with a stinging blow over the ears
of the indignant horses, who plunged forward with a frightened leap.
The coach rose and rocked, narrowly missing overturning in its sudden
headlong course. Jimmy clamped on the brakes, snatched the reins and
brought the plunging team to a stop after narrowly missing the gutter.
Stover, saved from a headlong journey only by the iron grip of The
Roman, had a moment of horrible fear. But immediately recovering his
self-possession he said gruffly:

"All right, let go of me."

"What in blazes were you trying to do, you young anarchist?" cried
Jimmy, turning on him wrathfully.

"Gee! Why don't you drive a couple of cows?" said Stover in disgust.
"Why, in my parts we alway drive on two wheels."

"Two wheels!" said Jimmy scornfully. "Guess you never drove anything
that did have four wheels but a baby-buggy."

But Stover, as though discouraged, disdained to reply, and sat in
moody silence.

The Roman, who was still interested in a possible brother or two,
strove in vain to draw him out. Stover wrapped himself in a majestic
silence. Despite himself, the mystery of the discoverer was upon him.
His glance fastened itself on the swelling horizon for the school that
suddenly was to appear.

"How many fellows have you got here?" he said all at once to Jimmy.

"About four hundred."

"As much as that?"

"Sure."

"Big fellows?"

"Sizable."

"How big?"

"Two-hundred-pounders."

"When do we see the school?"

"Top of next hill."

The Roman watched him from the corner of his eye, interested in his
sudden shift of mood.

"What kind of a football team did they have?" said Stover.

"Scored on the Princeton 'Varsity."

"Jemima! You don't say so!"

"Eight to four."

"Great Heavens!"

"Only game they lost."

"The Princeton championship team, too," said Stover, who was not
deficient in historical athletics. "Say, how's the nine shaping up?"

"It's a winner."

All at once Jimmy extended his whip. "There it is, over there--you'll
get the water tower first."

Stover stood up reverentially. Across the dip and swell of the hills a
cluster of slated roofs, a glimpse of red brick through the trees, a
touch of brownstone, a water tower in sharp outline against the sky,
suddenly rose from the horizon. A continent had been discovered, the
land of possible dreams.

"It's ripping--ripping, isn't it?" he said, still standing eagerly.

The Roman, gazing on it for the thousandth time, shook his head in
musing agreement.

Across the fields came the stolid ringing of the school bell, ringing
a hundred laggards across the budding campus to hard seats and
blackboarded walls, ringing with its lengthened, slow-dying,
never-varying note.

"That the bell?" This fact is embodied in the law of ideo-motor action (distinguished
from sensory-motor action), "every idea in the mind tends to express
itself in movement."

This motor character of ideas is manifested in a most thorough-going
way and renders our muscular system a faithful mirror of our thoughts.

We have in the psychological laboratory delicate apparatus which
enables us to measure many of these slight movements.

For example, we fasten a recording device to the top of a person's
head, so that his slightest movements will be recorded, then we ask
him while standing perfectly still to think of an object at his
right side.

After several moments the record shows that he involuntarily leans
in the direction of the object about which he is thinking.

We find further illustration of this law when we examine people as
they read, for they involuntarily accompany the reading with movements
of speech, measurable in the muscles of the throat, the tongue and
the lips.

These facts, and many others, constitute good evidence for the
statement that ideas seek expression in movement.

The ethical consequences of this are so momentous that we must
remark upon them in passing.

We now see the force of the biblical statement, "Not that which
entereth into the mouth defileth the man; but that which
proceedeth out of the mouth, this defileth the man." Think what
it means to one's character that every thought harbored in the
mind is bound to come out.

It may not manifest itself at once in overt action, but it affects the
motor pathways and either weakens or strengthens connections so
that when the opportunity comes, some act will be furthered or
hindered.

In view of the proneness to permit base thoughts to enter the mind,
human beings might sometimes fear even to think. A more optimistic
idea, however, is that noble thoughts lead to noble acts.

Therefore, keep in your mind the kind of thoughts that you wish to
see actualized in your character and the appropriate acts will
follow of their own accord.

But it is with the significance of expressions in study that we are
at present concerned, and here we find them of supreme importance.

We ordinarily regard learning as a process of taking things into
the mind, and regard expression as a thing apart from acquisition
of knowledge.

We shall find in this discussion, however, that there is no such
sharp demarcation between acquiring knowledge and expressing
knowledge, but that the two are intimately bound together, expressions
being properly a part of wise and economical learning.

When we survey the modes of expression that may be used in study, we
find them to be of several kinds. Speech is one. This is the form of
expression for which the class-recitation is provided.

If you wish to grow as a student, utilize the recitation period and
welcome every chance to recite orally, for things about which you
recite in class are more effectively learned. Talking about a subject
under all circumstances will help you learn.

When studying subjects like political economy, sociology or psychology,
seize every opportunity to talk over the questions involved. Hold
frequent conferences with your instructor; voice your difficulties
freely, and the very effort to state them will help to clarify them.

It is a good plan for two students in the same course to come
together and talk over the problems; the debates thus stimulated
and the questions aroused by mental interaction are very helpful
in impressing facts more vividly upon the mind.

Writing is a form of expression and is one thing that gives value to
note-taking and examinations. Its value is further recognized by the
requirements of themes and term-papers. These are all mediums by
which you may develop yourself, and they merit your earnest
cooperation.

Another medium of expression that students may profitably employ is
drawing. This is especially valuable in such subjects as geology,
physiology and botany.

Students in botany are compelled to do much drawing of the plant-forms
which they study, and this is a wise requirement, for it makes them
observe more carefully, report more faithfully and recall with
greater ease.

You may secure the same advantages by employing the graphic method in
other studies. For example, when reading in a geology text-book about
the stratification of the earth in a certain region, draw the parts
described and label them according to the description.

You will be surprised to see how clear the description becomes and
how easily it is later recalled.

Let us examine the effects of the expressive movements of speech, writing
and the like, and see the mechanism by which they facilitate the study
process. We may describe their effects in two ways:
neurologically and psychologically. As may be expected from our
preliminary study of the nervous system, we see their first effects
upon the motor pathways leading out to the muscles.

Each passage of the nerve current from brain to muscle leaves traces
so that the resulting act is performed with greater ease upon each
repetition.

This fact has already been emphasized by the warning, Guard the
avenues of expression.

Especially is it important at the first performance of an act,
because this determines the path of later performances.

In such studies as piano-playing, vocalizing and pronunciation
of foreign words, see that your first performance is absolutely
right, then as the expressive movements are repeated, they will be
more firmly ingrained because of the deepening of the motor
pathways.

The next effect of acts of expression is to be found in the
modifications made in the sensory areas of the brain.

You will recall that every movement of a muscle produces nervous
currents which go back to the brain and register there in the form
of kinaesthetic sensations.

To demonstrate kinaesthetic sensations, close your eyes and move
your index finger up and down.

You can feel the muscles contracting and the tendons moving back
and forth, even into the back of the hand.

These sensations ordinarily escape our attention, but they occupy
a prominent place in the control of our actions.

For example, when ascending familiar stairs in the dark, they notify
us when we have reached the top.

We are still further impressed with their importance when we are
deprived of them; when we try to walk upon a foot or a leg that has
gone "to sleep"; that is, when the kinaesthetic nerves are temporarily
paralyzed we find it difficult to walk.

But besides being used to control muscular actions, they may be
used in study, for they may be made the source of impressions, and
impressions, as we learned in the chapter on memory, are a prime
requisite for learning.

Each expression becomes, then, through its kinaesthetic results,
the source of new impressions, when, for example, you pronounce the
German word, _anwenden_, with the English word "to employ," in
addition to the impressions made through the ear, you make impressions
through the muscles of speech (kinaesthetic impressions), and these
kinaesthetic impressions enter into the body of your knowledge and
later may serve as the means by which the word may be revived.

When you write the word, you make kinaesthetic impressions which
may later serve as forms of revival. So the movements of expression
produce sensory material that may serve as tentacles by means of
which you can later reach back into your memory and recall facts.

We shall now consider another service of expressions which, though
little regarded, nevertheless is of much moment.

When we make expressive movements, much nervous energy is generated;
much more than during passive impression.

Energy is sent back to the brain over the kinaesthetic nerve cells,
and the greater the extent of the movement, the greater is the
amount of new energy sent to the brain.

It pours into the brain and diffuses itself especially throughout
the association areas.

Here it excites regions which could not be excited by a more limited
amount of energy. This means, in psychical terms, that new ideas are
being aroused. The obvious inference from this fact is that you may,
by starting movements of expression, actually summon to your
assistance added powers of mind.

For example, when you are called upon to recite in class, your
mind seems to be a complete blank--in a state of "deadlock."

You may break this "deadlock" and start brain-action by some kind of
movement.

It may be only to clear your throat, to ejaculate "well," or to squirm
about in the seat, but whatever form the movement takes, it
will usually be effective in creating the desired nervous energy, and
after the inertia is once overcome the mental stream will flow
freely.

The unconscious application of this device is seen when a man is
called on suddenly to make a speech for which he has not prepared.

He usually starts out by telling a story, thus liberating nervous
energy to pour back into the brain and start thinking processes.

With increasing vehemence of expression, the ideas come more and
more freely, and the result is a speech which surpasses the
expectations of the speaker himself.

The gesticulations of many speakers have this same function, being
frequently of great service in arousing more nervous energy, which
goes back to the brain and arouses more ideas.

The device of stimulating ideas by expressive movements may be
utilized in theme- or letter-writing.

It is generally recognized that the difficult thing in such writing
is to get a start, and the too common practice is to sit listlessly
gazing into space waiting for "inspiration."

This is usually a futile procedure.

The better way is to begin to write anything about the topic in hand.

What you write may have little merit, either of substance or form.

Nevertheless, if you persist in keeping up the activity of writing,
making more and more movements, you will find that the ideas will
begin to come in greater profusion until they come so fast you can
hardly write them down.

Having tried to picture the neural effect of expression, we may now
translate them into psychological terms, asking what service the
expressions render to the conscious side of our study.

First of all, we note that the expressions help to make the acts
and ideas in study habitual.

We find ourselves, with each expression, better able to perform such
acts as the pronunciation of foreign words.

Second, they furnish new impressions through the kinaesthetic sense,
thus being a source of sense-impression.

Third, they give rise to a greater number of ideas and link them
up with the idea dominant at the moment.

There is a further psychological effect of expression in the
clarification of ideas.

It is a well-attested fact that when we attempt to explain a
thing to someone else, it becomes clearer in our own minds.

You can demonstrate this for yourself by attempting to explain to
someone an intricate conception such as the nebular hypothesis.

The effort involved in making the explanation makes the fact more
vivid to you.

The habit of thus utilizing your knowledge in conversation is an
excellent one to acquire.

Indeed, expression is the only objective test of knowledge and we
cannot say that we really know until we can express our knowledge.

Expression is thus the great clarification agency and the test of
knowledge.

Before leaving this discussion, it might be well to remark upon one
phase of expression that is sometimes a source of difficulty.

This is the embarrassment incident to some forms of expression,
notably oral.

Many people are deterred from utilizing this form of expression
because of shyness and embarrassment in the presence of others.

If you have this difficulty in such excess that it hinders you from
free expression, resolve at once to overcome it.

Begin at the very outset of your academic career to form habits of
disregarding your impulses to act in frightened manner.

Take a course in public speaking.

The practice thus secured will be a great aid in developing habits
of fearless and free oral expression.

This discussion has shown that expression is a powerful aid in
learning, and is a most important feature of mental life.

Cultivate your powers of expression, for your college education
should consist not only in the development of habits of impression,
but also in the development of habits of expression.

Grasp eagerly every opportunity for the development of skill in clear
and forceful expression.

Devote assiduous attention to themes and all written work, and make
serious efforts to speak well.

Remember you are forming habits that will persist throughout your
life.

Emphasize, therefore, at every step, methods of expression, for it
is this phase of learning in which you will find greatest growth.

EXERCISE
Exercise I.

Give an example from your own experience, showing how expression (a)
stimulates ideas, (b) clarifies ideas.

CHAPTER XI
HOW TO BECOME INTERESTED IN A SUBJECT
"I can't get interested in Mediaeval History."

This illustrates a kind of complaint frequently made by college
students.

It is our purpose in this chapter to show the fallacy of this; to prove
that interest may be developed in an "uninteresting" subject; and
to show how.

In order to lay a firm foundation for our psychologizing, let us examine
into the nature of interest and see what it really is. It has been
defined as: "the recognition of a thing which has been vitally
connected with experience before--a thing recognized as old";
"impulse to attend"; "interest naturally arouses tendencies to act";
"the root idea of the term seems to be that of being engaged,
engrossed, or entirely taken up with some activity because of its
recognized worth"; "interest marks the annihilation of the distance
between the person and the materials and results of his action; it
is the sign of their organic union."

In addition to the characteristics just mentioned should be noted
the pleasurableness that usually attends any activity in which we
are "interested."

A growing feeling of pleasure is the sign which notifies us that we
are growing interested in a subject. And it is such an aid in the
performance of work that we should seek earnestly to acquire it in
connection with any work we have to do.

The persons who make the complaint at the head of this chapter
notice that they take interest easily in certain things: a Jack
London story, a dish of ice cream, a foot-ball game.

And they take interest in them so spontaneously and effortlessly
that they think these interests must be born within them.

When we examine carefully the interests of man, and trace their
sources, we see that the above view is fallacious.

We acquire most of our interests in the course of our experience.

Professor James asserts:

"An adult man's interests are almost every one of them intensely
artificial; they have been slowly built up. The objects of professional
interest are most of them in their original nature, repulsive; but
by their connection with such natively exciting objects as one's
personal fortune, one's social responsibilities and especially
by the force of inveterate habit, they grow to be the only things for
which in middle life a man profoundly cares."
Since interests are largely products of experience, then, it follows
that if we wish to have an interest in a given subject, we must
consciously and purposefully develop it.

There is wide choice open to us. We may develop interest in early
Victorian literature, prize-fight promoting, social theory, lignitic
rocks, history of Siam, the collection of scarabs, mediaeval
history.

We should not be deceived by the glibness of the above statements
into assuming that the development of interest is an easy matter.

It requires adherence to certain definite psychological laws which
we may call the laws of interest.

The first may be stated as follows: _In order to develop interest
in a subject, secure information about it_.

The force of this law will be apparent as soon as we analyze one of
our already-developed interests.

Let us take one that is quite common--the interest which a typical
young girl takes in a movie star.

Her interest in him comes largely from what she has been able to
learn about him; the names of the productions in which he has
appeared, his age, the color of his automobile, his favorite novel.

Her interest may be said actually to consist, at least in part, of
these facts.

The astute press agent knows the force of this law, and at well-timed
intervals he lets slip through bits of information about the star,
which fan the interest of the fair devotee to a still whiter heat.

The relation of information to interest is still further illustrated
by the case of the typical university professor or scientist.

He is interested in certain objects of research--infusoria, electrons,
plant ecology,--because he knows so much about them.

His interest may be said to _consist_ partly of the body of knowledge
that he possesses.

He was not always interested in the specific, obscure field, but by
saturating himself in facts about it, he has developed an interest
in it amounting to passionate absorption, which manifests itself
in "absent-mindedness" of such profundity as to make him often an
object of wonder and ridicule.

Let us demonstrate the application of the law again showing how interest
may be developed in a specific college subject.

Let us choose one that is generally regarded as so "difficult" and
"abstract" that not many people are interested in it--philology,
the study of language as a science.

Let us imagine that we are trying to interest a student of law in
this.

As a first step we shall select some legal term and show what
philology can tell about it.

A term frequently encountered in law is indenture--a certain form of
contract. Philological researches have uncovered an interesting
history regarding this word.

It seems that in olden days when two persons made an agreement they
wrote it on two pieces of paper, then notched the edges so that
when placed together, the notches on the edge of one paper would
just match those of the other.

This protected both parties against substitution of a fraudulent
contract at time of fulfillment.

Still earlier in man's development, before he could write, it was
customary to record such agreements by breaking a stick in two pieces
and leaving the jagged ends to be fitted together at time of fulfillment.
Sometimes a bone was used this way.

Because its critical feature was the saw-toothed edge, this kind
of contract was called indenture (derived from the root _dent_--tooth,
the same one from which we derive our word dentist).

The formal, legal-looking document which we today call an indenture
gives us no hint of its humble origin, but the word when analyzed
by the technique of philology tells the whole story, and throws
much light upon the legal practices of our forbears.

Having discovered one such valuable fact in philology, the student
of law may be led to investigate the science still further and find
many more.

As a result still he will become interested in philology.

By this illustration we have demonstrated the first psychological
law of interest, and also its corollary which is: _State the new
in terms of the old_.

For we not only gave our lawyer new information culled from
philological sources; we also introduced our fact in terms of an
old fact which was already "interesting" to the lawyer.

This is recognized as such an important principle in education that
it has become embodied in a maxim: Proceed from the known to the
unknown.

Before him extended an immense circle of greensward, dotted on the
edge with apple trees in blossom, under which groups of boys were
lolling, or tumbling over one another in joyous cublike romping. To
the left, across the circle, half a dozen red-coated, slate-topped,
portly houses, overgrown with ivy, were noisy with urchins hanging out
of myriad windows, grouped on steps, chasing one another in twisting
spirals over the lawns. Ahead, a massive brownstone chapel with
pointed tower rose up, and to its right, in mathematical bulk, was the
abode of Greek and Latin roots, syntax and dates, of blackboards, hard
seats and the despotism of the Faculty. To the right, close at hand,
was a large three-storied building with wonderful dormer windows
tucked under the slanted slate roof, and below was a long stone
esplanade, black with the grouped figures of giants. At the windows,
propped on sofa cushions, chin in hand some few conned the approaching
lesson, softening the task by moments of dreamy contemplation of the
scuffle below or stopping to catch a tennis ball that traveled from
the esplanade to the window. Meanwhile, a constant buzz of inquiry and
exclamation continued:

"Say, Bill, how far's the advance?"

"Middle page ninety-two."

"Gee, what a lesson!"

"You bet--it's tough!"

"Hi, there, give me a catch."

"Look out! Biff!"

"Oh, you, Jack Rabbit, come up and give me the advance!"

"Can't. I'm taking my chances. Get hold of Skinny."

"What time's practice?"

"That's the Upper House, House of Lords, Abode of the Blessed," said
Butsey with envious eyes. "That's where we'll land when we're
fifth-formers--govern yourself, no lights, go to the village any time,
and all that sort of thing. Say!" He swept the circle comprehensively
with his arm. "What do you think of it? Pretty fine, eh--what?"

"Gee!" said Stover with difficulty, then after a moment he blurted
out: "It's--it's terrific!"

"Oh, that's not all; there's the Hammil House in the village and the
Davis and Rouse up the street. The baseball fields are past the
chapel."

"Why, it's like a small college," said Stover, whose gaze returned to
the giants on the esplanade.

"Huh!" said Butsey in sovereign contempt. "We'll wipe up anything in
the shape of a small college that comes around here! Do you want to
toddle around the circle?"

"Oh, Lord, no!" said Stover, cold at the thought of running the
inspection of hundreds of eyes. "Besides, I've got to see the Doctor."

"All right. Stand right up to him now. Don't get scared," said Butsey,
choosing the one method to arouse all latent fears.

"What's he like?" said Stover, biting his nails.

"There's nothing like him," said Butsey reminiscently. "He's got an
eye that gives you the creeps. He knows everything that goes
on--everything."

Stover began to whistle, keeping an eye on the windows as they
approached.

"Well, ta-ta! I'll hang out at Laloo's for you," said Butsey, loping
off. "Say, by the way, look out--he's a crackerjack boxer."

Stover, like Æneas at the gates of Avernus, stood under the awful
portals, ruminating uneasily on Butsey's last remark. There certainly
was something dark and terrifying about the place, that cast cold
shadows over the cheery April day. Then the door opened, he gave his
name in blundering accents to the butler, and found himself in the
parlor sitting bolt-upright on the edge of a gilded chair. The butler
returned, picking up his steps and, after whispering that the Doctor
would see him presently, departed, stealing noiselessly away.
Abandoned to the classic stillness, nothing in the room reassured him.
The carpets were soft, drowning out the sounds of human feet; the
walls and corridors seemed horribly stilled, as if through them no
human cry might reach the outer air. All about were photographs of
broken columns--cold, rigid, ruined columns, faintly discerned in the
curtained light of the room. The Doctor's study was beyond, through
the door by which the butler had passed. Stover's glance was riveted
on it, trying to remember whether the American Constitution prohibited
head masters from the brutal English practice of caning and birching;
and,--listening to the lagging tick of the mantel clock, he solemnly
vowed to lead that upright, impeccable life that would keep him from
such another soul-racking visit.

The door opened and the Doctor appeared, holding out his hand.

Stover hastily sprang up, found himself actually shaking hands and
mumbling something futile and idiotic. Then he was drawn to the horror
of horrors, and the door shut out all retreat.

"Well, John, how do you like the school?"

Stover, more terrified by this mild beginning than if the Doctor had
produced a bludgeon from behind his back, stammered out that he
thought the buildings were handsome, very handsome.

"It's a pretty big place," said the Doctor, throwing his nervous little
body back in an easy chair and studying the four-hundred-and-second
problem of the year. "You'll find a good deal in it--a great many
interests."

"He certainly has a wicked eye," thought Stover, watching with
fascination the glance that confronted him like a brace of pistols
suddenly extended from under shaggy bushes. "Now he's sizing me
up--wonder if he knows all?"

"Well, John, what was the trouble?" said the Doctor from his easy,
reclining position.

"The trouble, sir? Oh," said Stover, sitting bolt-upright with every
sinew stiffened. "You mean why they fired--why they expelled me, sir?"

"Yes, why did they fire you?" said the Doctor, trying to descend.

"For getting caught, sir."

The Doctor gazed at him sharply, seeking to determine whether the
answer was from impertinence or fright or a precocious judgment of the
morals of the nation. Then he smiled and said:

"Well, what was it?"

"Please, sir, I put asafetida in the furnace," said Stover in
frightened tones.

"You put asafetida down the furnace?"

"Yes, sir."

"That was a very brilliant idea, wasn't it?"

"No, sir," said Stover, drawing a long breath and wondering if he
could possibly stay after such a confession.

"Why did you do it?"

Stover hesitated, and suddenly, yielding to an unaccountable impulse
toward the truth that occasionally surprised him, blurted out:

"I did it to make trouble, sir."

"You didn't like the school?"

"I hated it! There were a lot of girls around."

"Well, John," said the Doctor with heroic seriousness, "it may be that
you didn't have enough to do. You have evidently an active
brain--perhaps imagination would be a fitter word. As I said, you'll
find this a pretty big place, just the sort of opening an ambitious
boy should delight in. You'll find here all sorts of boys--boys that
count, boys you respect and want to respect you, and then there are
other boys who will put asafetida in the furnace if you choose to
teach them chemistry."

"Oh, no, sir," said Stover, all in a gasp.

"Your parents think you are hard to manage," said the Doctor, with the
wisp of a smile. "I don't. Go out; make some organization; represent
us; make us proud of you; count for something! And remember one thing:
if you want to set fire to Memorial Hall or to dynamite this study do
it because _you_ want to, and not because some other fellow puts it
into your head. Stand on your own legs." The Doctor rose and extended
his hand cordially. "Of course, I shall have my eye on you."

Stover, dumbfounded, rose as though on springs. The Doctor, noticing
his amazement, said:

"Well, what is it?"

"Please, sir--is that all?"

"That's all," said the Doctor seriously.

Stover drew a long breath, shook hands precipitately and escaped.


IV


The spell was still on him as he stumbled over the resounding steps.
But, twenty feet from the door, the spirit of irreverence overtook
him. Then, at the thought of the waiting Butsey, he began to pipe
forth voluminously the martial strains of Sherman's March to the Sea,
kicking enormous pebbles victoriously before him.

Butsey White, sitting on the doorstep of Laloo's, gazed at him from
the depths of a steaming frankfurter sandwich.

"Well, you look cheerful," he said in surprise.

"Why not?"

"How was he?"

"Gentle as a kitten."

"Come off! Were you scared?"

"Scared! Lord, no! I enjoyed myself."

"You're a cheerful liar, you are. What did he say to you?"

"Hoped I'd enjoy the place and all that sort of thing. And--oh, yes,
he spoke about you."

"He did, did he?" said Butsey, precipitately leaving the frankfurter
sandwich.

"He hoped I'd have a good influence on you," said Stover, whose
imagination had been too long confined.

Butsey rose wrathfully, but the answer he intended could not be made,
for, reckoning on his host, he was already in his third frankfurter,
and there was the Jigger Shop yet to be visited.

"Dink, if you ever have to tell the truth," he said, "it'll kill you.
Come in and meet Mr. Laloo."

Mr. Laloo was leaning gratefully on the counter--as, indeed, he was
always leaning against something--his legs crossed, lazily plying the
afternoon toothpick.

"Laloo, shake hands with my friend, Mr. Stover," said Butsey White
professionally. "Mr. Stover's heard about your hot dogs, way out in
California."

Laloo transferred the toothpick and gave Stover his hand in a tired,
unenthusiastic way.

"Well, now, they do be pretty good hot dogs," he drawled out. "Suppose
you want one?" He looked at Stover in sleepy reproachfulness, and then
slid around the counter in the shortest parabola possible.

"Pick him out a nice, young Pomeranian," said Butsey, peering into the
steaming tin.

Laloo forked a frankfurter, selected a roll and looked expectantly at
Stover.

"What's the matter?" said Dink, mystified.

"Mustard or no mustard?" Butsey said in explanation. "He likes to
talk, but the doctor won't let him."

"I'll have all that's coming to me," said Dink loudly.

A second later his teeth had sunk into the odorous mass. He shut his
eyes, gazed seraphically at the smooty ceiling and winked at Butsey.

"Umm?" said Butsey.

"Umm! Umm!"

"Isn't he the fancy young dog-catcher?"

"Well, I should rather!" said Dink, lost in the vapors. "I say, have
another?"

"Thanks, old chap, but I had a couple while you were chucking the
Doctor under the chin," said Butsey glibly. "Save up now; we've got a
couple more places to visit."

"How much?" said Dink.

Laloo, who was reclining against the nearest wall, elevated four
fingers and gazed out the window.

"Four!" said Stover.

"One and three."

"Three!" said Butsey in feigned surprise. "Oh, come, I didn't eat
three--well, I never; what do you think of that?"

Dink rubbed his ear thoughtfully, looked hard at Butsey and paid.
Laloo followed them to the door, leaned against the jamb and gazed
down the road.

"Now for Bill Appleby's," said Butsey cheerily. "He's rolling--rolling
in wealth. We'll go in later for lamps and crockery and all that sort
of thing. I thought we might sort of wash down the hot dogs before we
go up to the Jigger Shop--eh, what?"

In Appleby's general merchandise store Stover gravely shook hands with
a quick, business-like little man with a Western mustache, a Down-East
twang and a general air of being on the trigger.

"Well, Bill, how's business?" said Butsey affably, nudging Stover.

"It's bad, boys, it's bad," said Bill mournfully.

"Bad, you old robber," said Butsey; "why, that little iron safe of
yours is just cracking open with coin. How's the rootbeer to-day?"

"It's very nice, Mr. White. Just come in this morning."

"Yes, it did! Bet it came in with the Ark," said Butsey, to Stover's
great admiration. "Well, are you going to set us up to a couple of
bottles, or have we got to pay for them?"

"We've got some very fine Turkish paste, Mr. White," said Bill,
producing the rootbeer.

"Well?" said Butsey, looking at Stover.

"Sure!"

"I'd like to show you some of our new crockery sets, Mr. Stover," said
Appleby softly. "Just come in this morning. Want a student's lamp?"

"No time now, Bill," said Butsey, hastily consulting the clock. "See
you later."

Other groups came in; Appleby moved away. Stover, quenching the hot
dogs in rootbeer, heard again the opening salutations:

"Well, Bill, how's business?"

"It's bad, Mr. Parsons. It's bad."

"Well, Bill, ta-ta," said Butsey, as they moved off. "Seen Doc
Macnooder this morning?"

"No, Mr. White, I haven't saw him to-day."

"Always make him answer that," said Butsey chuckling, "and always ask
him about business. We all do. It's e-tiquette. There's Firmin's," he
said, with a wave of his hand--"post-office, country store, boots and
shoes and all that sort of thing. And here's the Jigger Shop!"

Stover had no need of the explanation. Before a one-story,
glass-fronted structure a swarm of boys of all ages, sizes and colors
were clustered on steps and railings, or perched on posts and backs of
chairs, all ravenously attacking the jigger to the hungry clink of the
spoon against the glass. They elbowed their way in through the joyous,
buzzing mass to where by the counter, Al, watchdog of the jigger,
scooped out the fresh strawberry ice cream and gathered in the nickels
that went before. At the moment of their arrival Al was in what might
be termed a defensive formation. One elbow was leaning on the counter,
one hand caressed the heavy, drooping mustache, one ear listened to
the promises of a ravenous, impecunious group, but the long, pointer
nose and the financial eyes were dreamily plunged on the group
without.

"Gee, did you ever see such an eye?" said Butsey, who had reasons of
his own for quailing before it. "It's almost up to the Doctor's. You
can't fool him--not for a minute. Talk about Pierpont Morgan! Why, he
knows the whole blooming lot of us, just what we're worth. Why, that
eye of his could put a hole right through any pocket. Watch him when
he spots me." Pushing forward he exclaimed: "Hello, Al; glad to see
me?"

Al turned slowly, fastening his glance on him with stony intentness.

"Don't bother me, you Butsey," he said shortly.

"Al, I've sort of set my sweet tooth on these here strawberry jiggers
of yours."

The Guardian of the Jigger made a half motion in the air, as though to
brush away an imaginary fly.

"Two nice, creamy, double strawberry jiggers, Al."

Al's eyes drooped wearily.

"My friend, Mr. Vanastorbilt Stover, here's setting up," said Butsey
in conciliating accents.

The eyes opened and fastened on Stover, who advanced saying:

"That goes."

"Ring a couple of dimes down, Astorbilt," said Butsey. "Al's very fond
of music."

"Give me change for that," said Stover, rising to the occasion with a
five-dollar bill.

"And, for the love of Mike, hustle 'em," said Butsey White. "I've only
got a second."

The shop began to empty rapidly as the hour of the two o'clock
recitation neared. Stover gazed into the pink, fruity depths of his
first strawberry jigger, inserted his spoon gingerly and took a
nibble. Then he drew a long, contented breath, gazed into the land of
dreams, and gave himself up to the delights of a new, of an
incomparable sensation.

Butsey White, gobbling against time, flung out occasional,
full-mouthed phrases:

"Got to run--'xcuse us--jemima! Isn't it the stuff--see you at
three--better bring some back in box--don't tell any one,
though--especially the Coffee-colored Angel."

Across the fields the bell suddenly, impatiently, brutally clanged
out. With a last convulsive gulp Butsey White finished his glass, and
burst from the shop in the helter-skelter company of the last
laggards. Stover, left alone, looked inquiringly at Al.

"Recitation," said Al. "They've got a two-twenty sprint before the
bell stops. We're out of hours, now, except for the Upper House."

"Meaning me?" said Stover, rising.

"Sit where you are," said Al. "You're all right for to-day. Where do
you hang out?"

"Green House," said Dink, who, beginning to feel hungry, ordered
another jigger and selected a chocolate éclair.

"You're not rooming with Butsey White?"

"The same."

"You are?" said Al pityingly. "Well, just let me give you one word of
advice, young fellow. Sew your shirt to your back, or he'll have it
off while you're getting into your coat."

"I wasn't born yesterday," said Dink impudently, gesturing with his
spoon. "And I rather fancy I'm a pretty cute little proposition
myself."

"So!"

"If any of these smart Alecs can get the best of me," said Dink
grandiloquently, egged on by the other's tone of disbelief, "he'll
have to get up with the chickens!"

[Illustration: "WHY, SOME OF 'EM ARE SO SLICK THAT WHEN THEY COME IN
I LOCK THE CASH DRAWER AND STUFF COTTON IN MY EARS"]

"All clear," said the Tennessee Shad from the window.

"All's well on the Rappahannock," returned the scout at the door.

Macnooder, with a well-executed double shuffle, the Tennessee Shad,
with a stiff-jointed lope of his bony body, advanced and shook hands.

"Al, we come not to take your hard-earned money, but do you good,"
said Macnooder as usual, genially shaking an imaginary hand.

The Tennessee Shad camped on the back of a chair, drew up his thin,
long legs, laid one bony finger against a bony nose and looked
expectantly at Macnooder.

Meanwhile Al, without turning his back, carefully moved over to the
glass counter that sheltered appetizing trays of éclairs, plum cakes
and cream puffs and, whistling a melancholy note, locked the door,
scanned the counter, and placed a foot on the cover of the jigger tub.

Doc Macnooder, whose round, bullet head and little rhinoceros eyes had
followed the hostile preparation, said sorrowfully:

"Al-bert, your conduct grieves us."

"Go ahead, now," said Al in a tired voice.

"Go ahead?" said Macnooder, looking in surprise at the equally
impassive Tennessee Shad.

"What's the flimflam to-day?"

"Al," said Macnooder, in his most persuasive tones, "you wrong me. My
motives are honorable. At four o'clock this very afternoon Turkey
Reiter will proceed to cash a check and settle for a fountain pen, a
pair of suspenders and a safety razor I sold him. Just trust me till
then--will you?"

"Nothing doing," said Al.

"Honor bright, Al!"

"No use."

"You _must_ trust me till then."

Al, producing a patent clipper, began to pare his nails.

"Al?"

"What?"

"Won't you trust me?"

"Don't make me laugh!"

"Al's right, Doc," said the Tennessee Shad, entering the discussion.
"You ought to put up some guarantee."

Al slowly turned his gaze on the Tennessee Shad and waited hopefully
for the real attack.

"Well, what?" said Macnooder.

"How about your watch?"

"It's loaned."

"You haven't got a stick-pin on you?"

"Left 'em at home--never thought Al would go back on me."

Al smiled.

"That's a very nice spring coat you've got on," said the Tennessee
Shad, as though struck by an inspiration. "Why don't you put that up
for a couple of hours?"

"Not on your life," said Macnooder indignantly. "This coat's brand
new, worth thirty dollars."

Al, suddenly shifting, leaned forward, both elbows on the counter, and
studied the coat with a reminiscent air.

"Oh, put it up," said the Tennessee Shad.

"Never. I've got associations about this coat and, besides, I've got
to make a swell call in Princeton to-morrow."

"What's the diff?" said the Tennessee Shad, yawning. "It's only a
couple of hours; and you know you said you were going to clean off the
whole slate with Al, sure as Turkey boned up."

Macnooder seemed to hesitate.

"It's idiotic to put up a real, high-life coat for a couple of
jiggers."

"Hurry up; I'm hungry."

"Stop," said Al, drawing back satisfied. "I wouldn't bother about that
coat if I were you."

"Why not?" exclaimed the two partners.

"'Cause I remember that coat gag now," said Al with a far-off look. "I
bit once--way back in '89. It's a good game, specially when the real
owner comes ramping in the next day."

"What do you mean?" said Doc Macnooder indignantly.

"I mean that it don't button, you young pirate," said Al scornfully,
but without malice. "When you try anything as slick as that again you
want to be sure the real owner ain't been around. That coat belongs to
Lovely Mead."

Doc Macnooder looked at the Tennessee Shad.

"Have we really got to pay for them?" he said mournfully.

"Looks that way."

"Oh, well," said Doc, slapping down a quarter, "fill 'em up."

Al heaped up the glasses, adding an appreciative extra dab with the
magnanimity of the victor, and said:

"Say, you boys want to rub up a little. Here's Stover, over there,
just come. He's about your size."

The Tennessee Shad and Doc Macnooder about faced and stared at Stover,
who all the while had remained in quiet obscurity, dangling his legs
over the counter.

"Just come, Stover?" said Macnooder at last.

"Yes, sir."

"On the noon stage?"

"Yes, sir."

"What form?"

"Second, sir."

"Why, shake, then, brother," said the Tennessee Shad, offering his
hand. "Shake hands with Doc Macnooder."

Doc Macnooder grasped his hand with extra cordiality, saying:

"What house?"

"Green House, sir," said Stover, awed by the sight of a 'varsity
jersey. "I'm rooming with--with Mr. White."

"What'll you have?"

"I beg pardon."

"What'll you have?"

"Why," said Stover, quite taken back by the offer, "I think it's up to
me, sir."

"Rats!" said Macnooder. "If you've been in tow of Butsey, I'll bet
you've been paying out all day. Butsey White's a low-down,
white-livered cuss, who'd take advantage of a freshman. Step up."

"I'll have another one of these," said Stover gratefully, feeling his
heart warm toward the unexpected friends.

"Bet Butsey's stuck you pretty hard," said the Tennessee Shad, nodding
wisely. "He's just loaded with the spondulix, too."

"Well, he did sort of impose on me," said Stover, thinking of the
frankfurters at Laloo's.

"It's a shame," said Macnooder indignantly.

"You're pretty slick?"

"As slick as they make 'em."

"Say, bub," said Al, with his dreamy drawl, "is this the line of talk
you've been putting out to that bunch of Indians down in the Green?"

"Oh, I'll put it out."

"Say, you're going to have a wonderful time here!"

"Watch me," said Dink, cocking his head; but with less confidence than
when he had announced his intentions on the stage-coach.

"Young fellow," said Al, leaning back and looking at him from under
his eyelids, "you're in wrong. You don't know what you've come to.
Why, there's a bunch of young stock jobbers around here that would
make a Wall Street bunco-steerer take to raising chickens! Slick? Why,
some of 'em are so slick that when they come in I lock the cash drawer
and stuff cotton in my ears."

"Bring 'em on," said Dink disdainfully.

At this moment there was a loud flop by the window in the rear, and
the Tennessee Shad rose slowly from the floor. At the same moment Doc
Macnooder, ambling innocently by on the farther sidewalk, turned,
dashed across the street, bounded into the shop and, returning to the
door, carefully surveyed the approaches.

"Glad to do it," said Macnooder, without enthusiasm. "Finish up and
we'll fit you out in a jiffy."

When the three went shuffling down the street Al did an unusual, an
unprecedented thing. He actually made the turn of the counter and
stationed himself at the door, watching the group depart--Macnooder
with his arm on Stover's shoulder, the Tennessee Shad guarding the
other side.

When they disappeared beyond Bill Orum's, the cobbler's, in the
direction of the Dickinson, he said slowly, in profound admiration:

"Well, I'll be jiggered! If those body-snatchers don't get
electrocuted, they'll own Fifth Avenue!"


V


"Come up to my room and we'll see what's on hand," said Doc, entering
the Dickinson. "Too bad you're stuck down in the Green--no house
spirit there--you must get in with us next year."

"Doc's a great fellow," said the Tennessee Shad, as Macnooder went
quickly ahead, "a great business man. He's a sort of clearing house
for the whole school. Say, he's taken a regular fancy to you."

"What did he get his 'L' for?" said Stover, as the Tennessee Shad, to
gain time, showed him the lower floor.

"Quarter on the eleven last fall. Here's the Triumphant Egghead's
room. Isn't it a peach? They've got a good crowd here; you must be
with them or us next year. Here's Turkey Reiter's and Butcher Stevens'
quarters. They're crackerjacks, too; on the eleven and the nine. Come
on, now. We'll strike Doc. You know he studies medicine and all that
sort of thing. Wait till I give the countersign. Doc's most
particular."

Stover found himself in a den, a combination of drug-store,
taxidermist's shop and general warehouse. All about the room were
ranged an extraordinary array of bottles--green bottles that lurked
under the bed, red, blue and white bottles that climbed the walls and
crowded the mantelpiece, tops of bottles that peered out of
half-opened boxes, all ticketed and mustered in regiments. From the
ceiling a baby alligator swung on a wire, blinking at them horribly
with shining glass eyes; a stuffed owl sat in one corner; while
opposite, a muskrat peered into a crow's nest. The closet and all
available floor space were heaped high with paper boxes and wooden
cases, while over all were innumerable catalogues.

"Pretty fine, isn't it?" said the Tennessee Shad.

"It's wonderful," said Stover, not quite at ease.

"It's not bad," said Doc. "I'd like to have a nice, white skeleton
over there in that corner; but they're hard to get, nowadays. Now
let's get down to business. Sit down."

Stover took the only chair; the Tennessee Shad curled up languidly on
the bed, after brushing aside the débris; while Macnooder, perched on
a drygoods box, poised a pencil over a pad of paper.

"You want a crockery set, first; a student lamp, and an oil can to
keep your oil in."

"Especially the can," said the Tennessee Shad gravely. "Better get a
padlock with it, or the whole Green House will be stealing from you."

"I don't know whether I have a can on hand," said Macnooder anxiously.
"But here's a lamp."

He placed a rather battered affair in the middle of the floor, saying:

"It's a little squee-geed, but you don't care about looks. They ask
you all kinds of prices for them when they're new; but you can have
this for two-twenty-five. There's a bite out of the shade, but you can
turn that side to the wall. They're rather hard to get second hand."

"All right," said Stover.

"Better light it up first," said the Tennessee Shad professionally.

"That's business-like," said Macnooder, who lit a match and, after an
unsuccessful attempt, said: "There's no oil in it. Still, if Stover
wants----"

"Never mind that," said Stover loudly, to show his confidence.

"Now for the toilet set."

"Say, how about the can?"

"Oh, the can. Let me look," said Macnooder, disappearing among the
packing boxes in the closet.

"You want that," said the Tennessee Shad confidentially.

"Hope he's got one," said Stover.

Macnooder reappeared with an ordinary kerosene can and a padlock,
announcing:

"This is the only one I've got on hand. It's my own."

"Let him have it," said the Tennessee Shad. "No one can get in here;
you're always locked and bolted."

Macnooder hesitated.

"How does it work?" said Stover, interested.

"The spigot is plugged up and the top cover is padlocked to the side.
See? Now no one can get it. I don't particularly care about selling
it, but if you want it take it at one-twenty-five."

"That's too much," said the Tennessee Shad. "One plunk's enough."

"You're paying cash?" said Macnooder, considering.

"Sure!" said Stover.

"Well, call it one bone, then."

Stover looked gratefully at the Tennessee Shad, who winked at him to
show him he was his friend.

"Now, about a crockery set," said Macnooder, scratching his head.
"I've got two, plain and fancy, what we call a souvenir set--but you
wouldn't understand that. I'll show you the regular kind."

"What's a souvenir set?" said Dink, mystified.

"Oh, it's a sort of school fad," said the Tennessee Shad, as Doc
disappeared. "Every piece is different, collected from all sorts of
places--swap 'em around like postage stamps, don't you know. We've got
rather tired of the ordinary thing, you know."

"Say, that's a bully idea," said Dink, whose imagination was appealed
to.

"Some of the fellows have perfect beauts," said the Tennessee Shad,
yawning; "got at hotels, and house parties, and all that sort of
thing."

"Why, that beats hooking signs all hollow," said Dink, growing
enthusiastic.

"I didn't know you'd be interested," said the Tennessee Shad
carelessly. "Like to see one?"

"You bet I would."

"I say, Doc, old boy," said the Tennessee Shad; "bring out the
souvenir set, too, will you, like a good fellow?"

"Wait till I get this out," said Macnooder, who, after much rummaging,
puffed back with a blue-and-white set which he ranged on the floor.

"How's that appeal to you?" he said with a flourish of his hand. "Good
condition, too; only the soap dish has a nick. You can have it for
two-fifty."

But Dink had no eyes for the commonplace.

"Could I see the other," he said, "before I decide?"

Macnooder appeared loth to exert himself to no purpose.

"You wouldn't cotton to it, bub," he said, with a shake of his head.

"I'm not so sure about that," said the Tennessee Shad. "This chap's no
bottle baby; he's more of a sport than you think. I'll bet you he's
got a few swagger trophies, in the line of signs, himself."

"I've got two or three might strike your fancy," said Dink with a
reckless look.

"Come on, Doc, don't be so infernally lazy. You're the deuce of a
salesman. Out with the crockery."

"What's the use?" said Doc half heartedly, moving back into the litter
of the closet.

"Don't get it unless you can afford it," said the Tennessee Shad in a
friendly whisper.

When at length the souvenir set had been carefully displayed on the
top of a box, cleared for the occasion, Stover beheld a green and
white pitcher, rising like a pond lily from the depths of a red and
white basin, while a lavender tooth mug, a blue cup and a pink soap
dish gave the whole somewhat the effect of an aurora-borealis.

The Tennessee Shad sprang up and examined each piece with a
connoisseur's enthusiasm. The lavender tooth mug, especially,
attracted his curiosity. He looked it over, handled it gingerly,
holding it to the light.

"Don't think this is up to the rest," he said finally, looking at Doc.
"It's cracked."

"Suppose it is!" said Doc scornfully. "Do you know whose that is? That
was swiped out of the set of Brother Baldwin."

"No?"

"Fact. Last day of spring term, when he was giving a math exam."

"You don't say so!"

"What are the rest?" said Stover, wondering what sum could possibly
compensate for such treasures.

"The rest are not so much; from the other houses, but they're good
pieces. The water pitcher was traded by Cap Kiefer, catcher of the
nine, you know. But there's one article," said Doc, pointing
melodramatically, "that's worth the whole lot. Only I'll have to put
you under oath--both of you."

The Tennessee Shad, puzzled, looked hard at Macnooder and raised his
right hand. Stover, blushing, followed suit.

"That," said Macnooder, "came direct from Foundation House. That
belonged to his Nibs himself!"

"Come off!" said the Tennessee Shad, not daring to look at Macnooder.
"That's a bunco game."

"I didn't say it was swiped," said Macnooder indignantly. "Just give
me a chance, will you? It was smashed up at the fire scare and thrown
away with a lot of other things. Tough McCarty, down at the Green, I
think, has got the slop jar."

"Excuses!" said the Tennessee Shad. "I did think for a moment you were
trying to impose on my young confidence. Gee! Just think, of it!
Cracky, what a prize! The Doctor himself--well--well! Say, I'd like to
make a bid myself."

"It goes with the set," said Macnooder. "It ain't mine; I'm only
getting the commission."

Stover, having caressed each article, drew a long breath and said
falteringly:

"I suppose it comes pretty high!"

"Of course it's worth more than the other set."

"Oh, of course."

"The price set on it was four flat."

"That's a good deal of money," said the Tennessee Shad. "Specially
when you've got to fit yourself out."

"Well, the other's cheaper at two-fifty," said Macnooder.

"Stover's sort of set his heart on this," said the Tennessee Shad.
"Haven't you, Sport?"

[Illustration: "CRACKY, WHAT A PRIZE! SAY, I'D LIKE TO MAKE
A BID MYSELF."]

Stover confessed that he had.

"Come on; make him a better price, Doc.".

"I'd have to consult my client."

"Well, consult your old client."

Macnooder disappeared.

"Stand firm now," said the Tennessee Shad, "you can beat him down. Paul,
of course, is moving on a higher spiritual plane, but still--

C2.45, fin.

The Education of Cyrus, Cyropaedia, {Keroupaideia}; the name
justified.

C2.46. Hystaspas' simple response: important, with other passages, to
show how naturally it came to them (i.e. the Hellenes and Xenophon)
to give a spiritual application to their rules of bodily and mental
training. These things to them are an allegory.

The goal is lofty, if not so sublime as St.

Paul's or Comte's, the Christians or Positivists (there has been
an alteration for the better in the spiritual plane, and Socrates helped
to bring it about, I believe), but /ceteris paribus/, the words
of St.

Paul are the words of Hystaspas and Xenophon. They for a corruptible
crown, and we for an incorruptible-- and one might find a still
happier parable!

C2.46. Fine sentiment, this /noblesse oblige/ (cf. the archangelic
dignity in Milton, /Paradise Lost/, I think).

C2.47. The aristocratic theory (cf. modern English "nigger" theory,
Anglo-Indian, etc.).

C3.3. Xenophon's dramatic skill. We are made to feel the touch of
something galling in the manner of these Median and Hyrcanian
troopers.

C3.4. A 'cute beginning rhetorically, because in the most graceful way
possible, and without egotism /versus/ Medes and Hyrcanians, it
postulates the Persian superiority, moral, as against the
accidental inferiority of the moment caused by want of cavalry and
the dependence on others which that involves.

I suppose it's no reflection on Cyrus' military acumen not to
foreseen this need. It would have been premature then, now it organically
grows; and there's no great crisis to pass through.

C3.11. I should have thought this was a dangerous argument; obviously
boys do learn better than men certain things.
C3.12. Short sharp snap of argumentative style.
C3.19. The antithetic balance and word-jingle, with an exquisite,
puristic, precise, and delicate lisp, as of one tasting the flavour
of his words throughout.He was standing in the middle of the floor, clutching the historic
shoes and searching the walls for the proper place of honor, when
Butsey White blew in.

"Where in thunder have you been?" he exclaimed, and then stopped at
the sight of the twisted lamp. He looked at Dink, gave a grunt and
examined the new purchase.

"Broken-winded, spavined, has the rickets--bet it leaks and won't
burn. Where in----"

All at once he perceived the kerosene can, with its attached padlock.

"What's this thing?" he said, in genuine surprise, picking it up with
two fingers and regarding it with a look of blank incomprehension.

"That's the safety can," said Stover, yielding to a vague feeling of
uneasiness.

"What's this?"

"That's a padlock."

"What for?"

"Why, for the kerosene."

"What kerosene?"

"The kerosene for the lamp."

"Why, you nincompoop, we don't furnish the kerosene."

"We don't?" said Stover faintly, with a horrible sinking feeling.
"Don't furnish the kerosene?"

"Who got hold of you?" said Butsey, too astounded to laugh.

"I met Macnooder----"

"And the Tennessee Shad, I'll bet my pants on it," said Butsey.

"Yes, sir."

"What else did they unload on you?"

"Why--why, I bought a souvenir set."

"A what?"

"A souvenir toilet set."

Butsey wheeled to the washstand, uttered a shriek and fell in
convulsions on the bed.

Stover stood stockstill, gazing in horror from the variegated crockery
to Butsey, who was thrashing to and fro in hysterical flops, holding
both the pillows where they would most ease the agony. Then, with a
sudden deft movement, Dink dropped the historic shoes, sent them under
the bed with a savage kick and, rushing to the window, threw the
safety can into the tall grass of the fields beyond. Then he returned
solemnly, sat down on the edge of the bed, took his head in his hands
and began to do some rapid thinking. Butsey White, prone on the bed,
burying his head in the covers, by painful degrees returned, gasping,
to self-control.

"Mr. White," said Dink solemnly.

There was a slight commotion opposite and a hand fluttered
beseechingly, while Butsey's weak voice managed to say:

"Take it away--take it away."

Dink rose and cast a towel over the set of seven colors, and then
resumed his seat.

"It's all right; I've hidden it," he said.

Butsey rolled from the bed, tottered over to his own washstand and
drank deeply from the water pitcher. Then he turned on the melancholy
Stover.

"Say!"

"Go ahead! Soak it to me!"

"I thought you were old enough to go out alone."

"They lied to me," said Stover, kicking a chair.

"Say that again."

"They lied," repeated Dink, but with a more uncertain note.

"This from you!" said Butsey maliciously.

A great ethical light burst over Dink. He scratched his head and then
looked at Butsey, grinning a sheepish grin.

"Well, I guess it was coming to me--but they are wonders!" he said,
with reluctant admiration. "I'll take my medicine, but I'll get back
at them, by jiminy! You see if I don't."

"For the love of Mike, give us the story!"

"You'll keep it twenty-four hours?"

"So help me----"

"I'm a sucker, all right," said Dink ruefully. Then he stopped and
blurted out: "Say, White, I guess it was about what I needed. I guess
I'm not such a little wonder-worker, after all. I've been
fresh--rotten fresh. But, say, from now on I'm holding my ear to the
ground; and when it comes to humbly picking up a few crumbs of
knowledge you'll find me ready and willing. I'm reformed. Now, here's
the tale:"


VI


Dink, under the influence of the new emotion, made a fairly full
confession, merely overlooking the shoes that Flash did not carry over
the Princeton goal line, and suppressing that detail of the Foundation
House's supposed contribution, which had lent such a peculiar value to
the souvenir crockery set. By four o'clock Butsey White had
sufficiently recovered to remember the afternoon baseball match.

Ten minutes later Dink, lost in a lapping baseball suit lent by
Cheyenne Baxter, re-enforced with safety pins, stationed himself in
the outfield behind a catcher's mitt, for preliminary practice with
little Susie Satterly and Beekstein Hall, who was shortsighted and
wore glasses.

When we start to reason, we do it because we find ourselves in
a situation from which we must extricate ourselves. The situation may
be physical, as when our automobile stops suddenly on a country
road; or it may be mental, as when we are deciding what college to
attend. In both cases, we recognize that we are facing a problem
which must be solved.

After recognition of the problem, our next step is to start vigorous
efforts to solve it. In doing this, we cast about for means; we summon
all the powers at our disposal. In the case of the automobile, we call
to mind other accidents and the causes of them; we remember
that once the spark-plug played out, so we test this hypothesis.
At another time some dust got into the carburetor, so we test this.
So we go on, calling up possible causes and applying appropriate
remedies until the right one is found and the engine is started. In
bringing to bear upon the problem facts from our past experience,
we form a series of judgments.

In the case of the problem as to what college to attend, we might
form these judgments: this college is nearer home; that one has a
celebrated faculty; this one has good laboratories; that one is my
father's alma mater. So we might go on, bringing up all the facts
regarding the problem and fitting each one mentally to see how it
works. Note that this utilization of ideas should not consist merely
of fumbling about in a vague hope of hitting upon some solution.
It must be a systematic search, guided by carefully chosen ideas.
For example, "if the clock on the mantle-piece has stopped, and
we have no idea how to make it go again, but mildly shake it
in the hope that something will happen to set it going, we are
merely fumbling.

But if, on moving the clock gently so as to set the pendulum in
motion, we hear it wobbling about irregularly, and at the same time
observe that there is no ticking of any kind, we come to the
conclusion that the pendulum has somehow or other escaped the little
catch that connects it with the mechanism, we have been really
thinking.

From the fact that the pendulum wobbles irregularly, we infer that
it has lost its proper catch. From the fact that there is no
ticking, we infer the same thing, for even when there is something
wrong with the clock that will prevent it from going permanently,
if the pendulum is set in motion by force from without it will tick
for a few seconds before it comes to rest again.

The important point to observe is that there must be inference.
This is always indicated by the word _therefore_ or its equivalent. If
you reach a conclusion without having to use or at any rate to
imply a _therefore_, you may take it for granted that you have not
been really thinking, but only jumping to conclusions."

This process of putting facts in the form of judgments and drawing
inferences, may be likened to a court-room scene where arguments are
presented to the judge. As each bit of evidence is submitted, it
is subjected to the test of its applicability to the situation or to
similar situations in the past. It is rigidly examined and nothing is
accepted as a candidate for the solution until it is found by trial
(of course, in imagination) to be pertinent to the situation.

The third stage of the reasoning process comes when some plan which
has been suggested as a possible solution of the difficulty proves
effective, and we make the decision; the arguments support or
overthrow each other, adding to and eliminating various considerations
until finally only one course appears possible.

As we said before, the solution comes inevitably, as represented
by the word _therefore_.

Little active work on our part is necessary, for if we have gone
through these other phases properly the decision will make itself.
You cannot make a wrong decision if you have the facts before you
and have given each the proper weight.

When the solution comes, it is recognized as right, for it
comes tinged with a feeling that we call belief.

Now that we have found the reasoning process to be one of
problem-solving, of which the first step is to acknowledge and
recognize the difficulty, the second, to call up various methods of
solution, and the third, to decide on the basis of one of the
solutions that comes tinged with certainty, we are ready to apply
this schema to study in the hope that we may discover the causes and
remedies for the reasoning difficulties of students.

In view of the fact that reasoning starts out with a problem, you see
at once that to make your study effective you must study in problems.
Avoid an habitual attitude of mere acquisition.

Do not memorize facts in the same pattern as they are handed out to
you. In history, in general literature, in science, do not read facts
merely as they come in the text, but seek the relations between them.

Stover tightened his belt, rapped the plate twice with his bat, as
Butsey had done, and resumed his position. But the memory of the sound
the ball had made when it had whistled by his ears had unnerved him.
Before he could summon back his heroic resolves Carter, with a sudden
jerk, delivered the ball. Involuntarily Stover stepped back, the ball
easily and slowly passed him and cut the corner of the plate.

"Ball three," said the umpire hesitatingly.

The Cleve catcher hurled his mask to the ground, Carter cast down his
glove and trod on it, while the second baseman fell on his bag and
wept.

When order was restored Stover dodged the fourth wild ball and went in
a daze to first, where to his amazement he was greeted with jubilant
cheers.

"You're the boy, Dinky."

"You've got an eye like Charlie DeSoto."

"They can't fool Rinky Dink."

"Why, he's a wonder."

"Watch him steal second."

Stover slapped his foot on first base with the joy of unhoped-for
victory. He glowered about his own possessions. The perspective had
suddenly changed; the field was open, all his, the Cleve House
representatives were a lot of dubs, butterfingers and fumblers,
anyhow! Under Cheyenne Baxter's directions he went plunging down to
second, slid, all arms and legs, safely on to the bag, thanks to a
wild pitch, and rose triumphantly, blowing the dust from his mouth.

There he remained, as Susie Satterly and Beekstein methodically struck
out.

But the joy of that double voyage was still on him as he went back to
centerfield, ready to master the hottest liner or retrieve the
sky-scraping fly. It was a great game. He felt a special aptitude for
it and wondered why he had never discovered the talent before. He
began to dream of sizzling two-baggers and long home-runs over the
fence.

"I wish I'd get a chance," he said, prancing about digging vicious
holes in the glove, that looked like a chest protector. "I'd show 'em
what I can do out here."

But no chance came. The battle was between pitchers, and to the
surprise of every one the Green House came up to the last inning with
the score of 2 to 1 in their favor, the solitary run of the Cleve
being due to a fly that Beekstein had failed to notice.

The Green House nine went jubilantly out into the field for the last
half of the ninth inning, determined to shut out the Cleve and end the
season with at least one victory.

Dink ran out on his tiptoes, encased himself in his mitt and turned,
tense and alert. He had gone through his first ordeal triumphantly. No
chances had come to him in the field, but at bat he had accidently
succeeded in being hit, and though he had struck out the next time he
had hit a foul and knew the jubilant feeling that came with the crack
of the bat.

"Give me a week and I'll soak 'em out," he said, moving restlessly,
and he added to himself: "Strike 'em out, Cheyenne, old man! They're
easy."

But the Cleves suddenly woke up and began to fight. One man beat out a
grounder, and one struck out; another error of the temperamental White
Mountain Canary put a man on third and one on second. Then Cheyenne,
pulling himself together, made his second strike-out.

"Two out, play for the batter," came Cheyenne Baxter's warning hallo.

"Two out," said Dink to his fellow-fielders. "One more and we spink
'em. Come on, now!"

Both sides settled for the final play, the man on second leading well
up toward third.

"Steady!" said Cheyenne.

Stover drew in his breath and rose to his toes, as he had done thirty
times already.

Suddenly there was a sharp crack, and the ball meeting the bat,
floated fair and free, out toward centerfield.

Dink did not have to move a step; in fact, the ball rose and fell
straight for the massive mitt as though it had chosen his glove from
all the other gloves in the field. It came slowly, endlessly, the
easiest, gentlest, most perfect fly imaginable, directly for the large
brown mitt that looked like a chest protector.

[Illustration: BEHIND HIM, PELL-MELL, SHRIEKING AND MURDEROUS--CAME
THE VANQUISHED.]

Stover, turned to stone, saw it strike fair in the middle, and then,
irresistibly, slowly, while, horribly fascinated, he stood powerless,
slowly trickle over the side of the mitt and drop to the ground.

Dink did not stop for a look, for a second thought, to hesitate or to
deliberate. He knew! He gave a howl and broke for the House, and
behind him, pell-mell, shrieking and murderous, like a pack of hounds
in full cry, came the vanquished, thirsting body of the Green.

He cleared the fence with one hand, took the road with two bounds,
fled up the walk, burst through the door, jumped the stairs, broke
into his room, slammed the door, locked it, backed the bed against it
and seized a chair.

Then the Green House struck the door like a salvo of grapeshot.

"Open up, you robber!"

"Open the door, you traitor!"

"You Benedict Arnold!"

"Open up, you white-livered pup!"

"You quitter!"

"You chickenheart!"

"You coward!"

Stover, his hair rising, seized the wooden chair convulsively, waiting
for the door to burst in.

All at once the transom swung violently and the wolfish faces of
Tough McCarty, the White Mountain Canary, Cheyenne and the
Coffee-colored Angel crowded the opening.

"Get back or I'll kill you," said Dink in frantic fear, and,
advancing, he swung the chair murderously. In a twinkling the transom
was emptied.

The storm of voices rose again.

"The freshest yet!"

"The nerve of him!"

"Let's break in the door!"

"Come out!"

"Come out, Freshman!"

"He did it on purpose!"

"He chucked the game!"

"Wait till I get my hands on him!"

"I'll skin him!"

All at once the face of Butsey White appeared at the transom.

"Dink, you let me right in, you hear?"

No answer.

"You let me in right off!"

Still no answer.

"It's my room; you let me in to my room, do you hear?"

Stover continued silent.

"Dink," said Butsey in his loudest tones, "I'm coming right over the
transom. Don't you dare to touch me!"

Stover again seized the chair.

Butsey White, supported from behind, carefully drew up one foot, and
then convulsively disappeared as Stover charged with the chair.

There was a whispered consultation and then the battling face of Tough
McCarty appeared with a new threat:

"You lay a hand on me and I'll rip the hide off you!"

"Keep back!" said Stover hoarsely.

"Put down that chair, you little varmint; do you hear me?"

"Don't you come over!"

"Yes, I'm coming over, and you don't dare to touch me. You don't----"

Stover was neither a coward nor a hero; he was simply in a panic and
he was cornered. He rushed wildly to the breach and delivered the
chair with a crash, Tough McCarty barely saving himself.

This open defiance of the champion angered the attacking party.

"He ought to be lynched!"

"The booby!"

"Wait till to-morrow!"

Tough McCarty reappeared for a brief second.

"I'll get you yet," he said, pointing a finger at the embattled
Stover. "You're a muff, a low-down muff, in every sense of the
word!"

Then succeeded the Coffee-colored Angel:

"Wait till I catch you, you Rinky Dink!"

Followed the White Mountain Canary:

"You'll reckon with _me_ for this!"

Down to Beekstein Hall, with his black-rimmed spectacles, each member
of the outraged nine climbed to the transom and expressed his
unflattering opinion.

Stover sat down, his chin in his hands, his eyes on the great,
lumbering mitt that lay dishonored on the floor.

"I'm disgraced," he said slowly, "disgraced. It's all over--all over.
I'm queered--queered forever!"


VII


Until dusk, like Gilliatt in Victor Hugo's Toilers of the Sea, waiting
for the tide to swallow him up, Stover sat motionless, brooding. There
was only one thing to do--to run away. His whole career had been
ruined in a twinkling. He knew. There could be no future for him in
the school. What he had done was so awful that it could never be
forgiven or forgotten. Why had he run? If only he had made a quick
dive at the ball as it had trickled off the glove and caught it before
it reached the ground, instead of standing there, horrified,
hypnotized. Yes, he would escape, run off to sea somewhere--anywhere!
But he wouldn't go home; no, never that! He would ship around the
Horn, like the hero in that dreadful book, Two Years Before the Mast.
He would run away that night, before the story spread over the whole
school. He would never face them. He hated the school, he hated the
Green, he hated every one connected with it!

A tap came on the door, and the voice of Butsey White said coldly:

"Open up! Fuzzy-Wuzzy's in the House; you're safe. Open up. I've got
to get ready for supper."

Stover drew back the bed, unlocked the door and waited with clenched
fists for Butsey to spring at him. Butsey White, whose tempestuous
rage had long since spent itself in hilarious laughter, as, indeed,
had been the case with the rest, thought it best, however, for the
purposes of authority, still to preserve a grave face.

"You're a fine specimen!" he said curtly. "You've had a beautiful day
of it."

"Yes, I have," said Dink miserably, "a beautiful day!"

Butsey, to whom the tragedy of the century was nothing but an
incident, had not the slightest suspicion of Stover's absolute,
overwhelming despair. Yet Butsey, too, had suffered, and profited by
the suffering.

"You better square up with Tough McCarty," he said, failing to read
the anguish in Stover's eyes. "You certainly were the limit."

"I hate him!" said Dink bitterly.

"Why?"

"He's a bully."

"Tough McCarty? Not a bit of it."

"He tried to bully me."

"Why didn't you let them in?" said Butsey, putting the part in the
middle of his hair with a dripping comb.

"Let them in!"

"Why, what do you think they'd have done to you?"

Stover had never thought of that. After all, what could they have done
to him?

"I didn't think----"

"Rats!" said Butsey. "They might have pied you on the bed; but that's
nothing if you lie face down and keep your elbows in. That's all you'd
have got. Then it would have been over; now you've got to square
yourself. Well, brush up and come down to supper, and for the love of
Mike smile a little."

Butsey White's sentiments neither consoled nor convinced. Stover was
too firmly persuaded of the enormity of his offense and the depth of
his ignominy.

In all his life he had never done a more difficult thing than to
follow Butsey into the dining-room and face the disdainful glances of
those from whom he had so lately fled.

He sat in abject mental and physical suffering, his eyes on his plate,
tasting nothing of what went into his mouth, chewing mechanically.

Mr. Jenkins, to be affable, asked him how he had enjoyed the day. He
mumbled some reply, he never knew what, hearing only the dreadful
snicker that ran the table. He refused the dessert and left the
table. It had been a nightmare.

He stayed in his room, watching from behind the curtains his
fellow-beings romping and shrieking over a game of baby-in-the-hat.
The bottom had, indeed, dropped out of things--the universe was
topsy-turvy. More keenly than in the afternoon he felt the utter
hopelessness of his disgrace. If he could only get away--escape from
it all. If he only had had five dollars in his pocket he could have
reached Trenton and worked his way to some seaport town. He looked at
the now ridiculous souvenir toilet set and bitterly thought where the
precious dollars had gone--that story, too, would be abroad by the
morrow. The whole school would probably rise and jeer at him when he
entered chapel the next morning. That night he crept into his bed to
the stillness of the black room, to suffer a long hour that first
overwhelming anguish that can only be suffered once, that no other
suffering can compare to, that is complete, because the knowledge of
other suffering has not yet come, and he who suffers suffers alone.
Then the imagination came to the rescue. He fell into blissful
unconsciousness by a process of consoling half dreams in which he
vindicated himself by feats of extraordinary valor, carrying the
suffocating Tough McCarty and the Coffee-colored Angel out of burning
houses at the risk of his own life, and earning the plaudits of the
whole school.

Suddenly a peal of thunder shook the building; he landed all in a heap
in the midst of the sunlit floor, rubbing his eyes. Outside, the
morning came in with warm embrace; green things stirred against the
window-panes; the flash of a robin's wing cut a swift shadow on the
floor and was gone. Below, the horrid clanging of the gong rattled the
walls and called on the dead to rise.

Dink gazed at the opposite bed. Butsey, with the covers wound around
him, with his knees under his chin, was actually asleep. In great
alarm he went over and shook him gently. One eye opened and
reproachfully fastened on him.

"I say, the gong--the gong's rung, Mr. White," said Dink.

"The rising gong?"

"Yes, sir."

"Well, when the breakfast gong explodes wake me up."

The eyes shut, but presently reopened and a muffled voice added:

"Pour out water--washbasin--stick my shoes over here."

Dink obeyed, mystified. Then, going to the window, he drank in all the
zest and glory of green fields and blue skies with woolly clouds
drifting over the tingling air. Joyfully he turned for a plunge in
cold water and the unspeakable crockery set met his eye. Then he
remembered. A shadow fell across the room; the day went into eclipse.
Mechanically, heavily, he dressed, and the fever of yesterday sprang
up anew.

Meanwhile, not a sound in the House except down the hall a snore--a
glorious, triumphant note. A second time the gong took up its
discordant march. Then from the cocoon on the bed a flash of legs and
arms sprang out and into the waiting garments. There was a splash in
the basin that spattered the water far and near, and Butsey, enveloped
in a towel, rushed into his upper garments, flung back his hair with a
masterful swooping stroke of the comb, and bolted out of the door,
buckling his belt and struggling into a sweater. Down the stairs they
went in the midst of floating coats, collars to be buttoned and
neckties to be tied; and when the last note of the gong had ended not
a place was vacant, though every eye still drooped with drowsiness.

Breakfast over, Dink followed Butsey to their room and, after the more
permanent preparations had been attended to, they left for chapel.

The much-dreaded breakfast had passed with but one incident; the
Coffee-colored Angel, in passing him the sugar, had said in a terrific
whisper:

"I'll get you to-day. I'll tame you!"

But, being still in a nodding state, his anger was contented with this
slight expression. Tough McCarty had given him just one look, but
somehow he remembered nothing else. The instinctive hostility he had
felt at the first meeting of their eyes rose anew. The Coffee-colored
Angel and the White Mountain Canary were but incidents; the enemy, _le
sacré_ Albion, was Tough McCarty.

He went in the current of boyhood past Foundation House and around the
circle toward chapel. For the first time the immensity of the school
was before him in the hundreds that, streaming across the campus in
thin, dotted lines, swelled into a compact, moving mass at the chapel
steps. It was more than an institution; it was a world, the complex,
marvelously ordered World of Youth.

Somehow, he did not attract the attention he had expected. His
entrance into the pew was attended by no hilarious uprising _en
masse_. He found his place in the gallery, between Pebble Stone and
Duke Straus, who sleepily asked his name and went off for a
supplementary nap on the shoulder of D. Tanner. Stone evidently had
heard nothing of his disgrace, or else was too absorbed in a hurried
conning of the Latin lesson to make remarks.

Dink lifted his head a little and stole a glance--strange, no one
seemed to be paying the slightest attention to him. Somewhat
astonished and unutterably relieved he gazed down at the body of the
school marshaled below, at the enormous fifth-formers who seemed--and
never was that illusion to fade--the most terrifically immense and
awesome representatives of manhood he had ever seen. The benches were
hard, decidedly so; but he lost himself pleasantly in the vaulted
roof, and gazed with respect at the distant pulpit.

The Doctor ascended and swept the school with that glance peculiar to
head masters which convinces each separate boy it is directed at him.
Stover felt the impact on his own forehead and dropped his eyes
uneasily. When the hymn began he looked curiously among his
classmates, located Doc Macnooder and caught the eye of the Tennessee
Shad, who winked at him to show him he was still his friend.

Somehow, his awful disgrace seemed to slip from him--the Green House
was but a grain in the sand. There were friends, undiscovered friends,
in the mass before him, to be won and held. An easier feeling came to
him. When the school shuffled out he sought the Tennessee Shad and,
holding out his hand said:

"Say, you are wonders; and I'm the only living sucker!"

"Dink, you're a real sport," said the Tennessee Shad, pleased; "but we
did come it pretty strong. Now, if you want to turn in those
shoes----"

"Not on your life!" said Dink. "I deserved it, but--but look out for
next year!"

"All right," said the Tennessee Shad with an approving look. "If you
do us we'll take you into the firm. Tack on to me, and I'll pilot you
to The Roman's."

Following his lanky guide Stover went in the churning, lagging mass
across to Memorial Hall, rubbing elbows with the heroes, who stalked
majestically in their voluminous bulk, with the coveted 'Varsity caps
riding on the backs of their cropped heads, or being jostled by the
freckled imps who ran zigzag, shrieking chases past him.

At the steps they divided, some surging upward and others crowding
into the lower corridor.

"Below for us," said the Tennessee Shad, pushing his way forward.

Dink found himself outside of one of the dozen classrooms in a throng
that waited hopefully, as other classes waited hopefully every hour
of every day in the hopes of an improbable cut.

"The Roman," said the Tennessee Shad wisely, "is the one master you
want to stand in with. Study like the devil the first two weeks; and
say, get up on the gerund and the gerundive--they're his pets."

"I will," said Dink.

"You can't bluff him and you can't beat his system," continued the
Tennessee Shad. "If you guess don't hesitate; jump at it. The only
thing you can do is to wait for his jokes, and then grab the desk and
weep for salvation--it's his one weak spot."

"I will," said Dink.

A cry of dismay went up from the sentinels at the window.

"Oh, rats! Here he comes."

"Oh, peanuts!"

"Oh, melancholy!"

"All in!"

Dink modestly took a seat in the back, at the end of the row of S's
where he must sit. On four sides, like prison walls that no convict
might hope to scale, the slippery blackboards rose up and bound them
in. On a raised stand was the master's pulpit where presently The
Roman would come and sit, like the watcher of the galley slaves in Ben
Hur, with his eagle glance sweeping the desks that, in regimental
file, ran back from him.

Outside, through two open windows, was the warm, forbidden month of
April, and the gateway to syntax-defying dreams. At this moment Dink's
copy of Cæsar's Gallic Wars slid on to the floor. He bent down,
laboriously collecting the scattered pages and straightened up. Then
he glanced at the pulpit. Directly in front of him, his eyes on his
eyes, sat the big consular frame of his stage companion of the day
before.

Dink gasped in horror; twice his hand went instinctively toward his
lip, stopped half-way and dropped. Then his mouth opened, set, and
galvanically he rose to his feet, while the room seemed to tip up.

He grasped the desk to keep from slipping, never taking his eyes from
the Ciceronian countenance and the twinkling orbits above the slightly
twitching lips.

"Dear me," said a low, mocking voice with a curious rising and falling
infection, "who's here? Another delegate to this congress of
scintillating intelligences?"

"Yes, sir," said Dink in a whisper.

"Quite a valuable addition, I hope. Yes? What is the name?"

"John."

"Well--well?"

"John Humperdink Stover," said Dink with difficulty.

"Ah, yes, Stover: the name is familiar--very familiar," said The
Roman, with a twitch to his lip and a sudden jump of the eyebrow.
"Haven't we met before?"

Dink, suffocating, nodded. The class, at a loss, turned from one to
the other, watching for the cue.

"Well, Stover, come a little nearer. Take the seat between Stone and
Straus. Straus will be better able to take his little morning nap. A
little embarrassed, Stover? Dear me! I shouldn't have thought that of
you. Sit down now and--try to put a little ginger into the class,
Stover."

Dink looked down and blushed until it seemed as though his hair would
catch on fire. The class, perceiving only that there was a point for
laughter, burst into roars.

"There--there," said The Roman, stilling the storm with one finger.
"Just a little joke between us two; just a little confidential joke. Now
for a bee-ootiful recitation. Splendid spring weather--yesterday was a
cut; of course you all took the hour to study conscientiously--eager
for knowledge. Fifth and sixth rows go to the board."

While The Roman's modulated accents doled out conjugations and
declensions Stover sat, without a thought in his head, his hands
locked, staring out at the green and yellow necktie that rose on
Pebble Stone's collar.

"Oh, Lord! Oh, Lord!" he said at last. "Dished! Spinked! He'll flunk
me every day. I certainly am in wrong!"

He raised his eyes at the enthroned Natural Enemy and mentally threw
down the gage of battle with a hopeless, despairing feeling of the
three years' daily conflict that was to come. For, of course, now
there could be no question of The Roman's mortal and unsparing enmity.
But after the first paralyzing shock Dink recovered himself. It was
war, but the war he loved--the war of wits.

The Roman, having flunked a dozen by this time, had Channing, the
Coffee-colored Angel, on his feet, on delicate matters of syntax.

"Top of page, third word, Channing--gerund or gerundive?" said The
Roman.

"Gerund, sir."

"Too bad!" said The Roman musically, and on a lower octave repeated:
"Too bad! Third line, fifth word--gerund or gerundive?"

"Gerund, sir," said the Coffee-colored Angel with more conviction.

"No luck, Channing, no luck. Tenth line, last word--gerund, Channing,
or gerundive?"

"Gerund-ive," said the Coffee-colored Angel hesitatingly.

"Poor Channing, he didn't stick to his system. The laws of
probability, Channing----"

"I meant gerund," said the Coffee-colored Angel hastily.

"Dear me! Really, Channing?"

"Yes, sir."

"Positive?"

"Absolutely, sir."

"It _was_ the gerundive, Channing."

The Coffee-colored Angel abruptly sat down.

"Don't want to speculate any more, Channing?"

"No, sir."

"No feeling of confidence--no luck to-day? Try the gerundive
to-morrow."

The discouraged began to return from the boards, having writ in water.
The Roman, without malice, passed over the rows and, from flunking
them individually, mowed them down in sections.

"Anything from the Davis House to-day? No, no? Anything from the Rouse
House combination? Nothing at all? Anything from the Jackson twins?
Alas! How about the D's this morning? Davis, Dark, Denton, Deer,
Dickson, nothing from the D's. Let's try the F's. Farr, Fenton,
Foster, Francis, Finch? Nothing from the F's--nothing from the D F's!
Nothing at all?"

Dink burst into laughter, and laughed alone. The Roman stopped. Every
one looked surprised.

"Ah, Stover has been coached--well coached," said The Roman. "But,
Stover, this is not the place to laugh. The D F's are not a joke; they
are painful, every day facts. Well, well, it has been a beautiful
recitation in the review--not exceptional, not exceptional at all. Has
any one the advance? Don't all rise at once. Strange what trying
weather it is--too sunny, not enough rain--every one rises exhausted.
Will Macnooder kindly lead the massacre?"

Macnooder disdained to rise; one or two faltered and tripped along for
brief spaces, and then sat down. The Roman, counting his dead,
hesitated and called:

"Stover."

"Me, sir?" said Dink, too astonished to rise. "Why, I'm unprepared,
sir."

"Unprepared?" said The Roman with a wicked smile. "I never thought you
would be unprepared, Stover."

The smile decided Stover.

"I'll try, sir," he said.

"Very kind of you, Stover."

Dink rose slowly, put the book on his desk, tightened his belt,
buttoned his coat and took up the prosy records of Cæsar. Pebble Stone
showed him the place. He straightened up and, glancing at the first
line, saw:

"_Ubi eo ventum est, Cæsar initio orationis_ ..."

"Cæsar," began Dink in a firm voice.

"Excellent!" said The Roman.

"Cæsar, wherever the wind blew him, initiated the orators ..." Dink
continued smoothly, after a rapid glance.

The Roman, from a listless attitude, gripped the desk, pivoted clear
on one leg of his chair, staring at the familiar text as though it had
suddenly taken on life and begun to crawl about the page.

Dink, resolved not to be bested, gravely and fluently continued to
glide on, without pause or hitch, turning syllables into words,
building sentences wherever he met an acquaintance. On and on he went,
glib and eloquent, weaving out of the tangled text a picture that
gradually, freeing itself from the early restraints, painted in vivid
detail a spirited conference between Cæsar and the German envoys. The
class, amazed, resorted to their books; many of the unprepared, quite
convinced, stared at him as though a new rival to the high markers had
suddenly appeared.

The Roman, fascinated, never quitted the text, marveling as the tale
ran on, leaping adverbs and conjunctions, avoiding whole phrases,
undismayed by the rise of sudden, hostile nouns, impressing into
service whatever suited it, corrupting or beating down all obstacles.

Once or twice he twitched spasmodically, twice he switched the leg of
his chair, murmuring all the while to himself. Finally he rose and,
slowly approaching to where Stover stood, glanced incredulously at his
book.

"Shall I stop, sir?" said Stover.

"Heaven forbid!"

Stover completed the page with a graphic, rushing account of the
athletic exercises of the ancient Germans, and sat down without a
smile.

The Roman, back at his post, wiped his eyes with his handkerchief and
spoke:

"Very well run, indeed, Stover; excellently well run. Take your
breath. Very fluent, very vivid, very persuasive--a trifle free, a
trifle--but, on the whole, a very creditable performance. Very! I was
sure, whatever you did, Stover, you wouldn't bore us. Now, let us see
how the same passage will appeal to a more prosaic, less
richly-endowed mind."

Then Red Dog rose and, unfeelingly, brought the scene back to Rome and
the deliberations of the Senate.

But this was a detail that did not interest Dink in the least. He had
clashed with The Roman and not retreated. He had his first moment of
triumph, attested by the admiring glances of the class and the muffled
whisper of Straus, saying:

"Gee, you're a peach!"

The session ended with a solemn warning from The Roman.

"One word," he said in his deepest tones, "just one word to the wise.
We have journeyed together for two whole terms; there is only one more
between you and reassignment. Candor compels me to say that you have
acquired not even a flunking knowledge." He turned and raked the awed
ranks with the sweep of a pivot gun, and then took up again in
cutting, chilling, spaced syllables: "I have, in the course of my
experience as a teacher, had to deal with imbeciles, had to deal with
mere idiots; but for sheer, determined, _monumental_ asininity I have
never met the equal of this aggregation. I trust this morning's
painful, disgraceful, disheartening experience may never, never be
repeated. You may go."

And Stover, who had brazenly planned to remain and converse, went
swiftly out with the rest, little imagining that he whom he had ranked
as a deadly, unforgiving foe sat a long while chuckling over the
marvelous route Dink had gone, murmuring gratefully to himself:

"Wherever the wind blew him, Cæsar initiated the orators."


VIII


In the hallway the Coffee-colored Angel jabbed him with his elbow,
muttering:

"You laughed at me, you miserable Rinky Dink. I'll fix you for that."

He disappeared swiftly. Before Dink could frame a reply he was
surrounded by an admiring chorus. The Tennessee Shad and Macnooder
shook hands with ceremony.

"You'll do," said the Tennessee Shad.

"You certainly will!" said Doc Macnooder.

"You've made a hit with Lucius Cassius," said the Tennessee Shad.

Dink shook his head; he knew better.

"You must always recite--always," said Doc Macnooder, from his great
knowledge of the nature of masters. "Whether you're prepared or
not--recite."

"I will," said Dink.

"And say, Dink," said Macnooder, "keep that outfit we sold you.
There'll be more hayseeds in the fall."

Dink had thought of that; he had thought of something else, too, which
he craftily hid in his own memory.

"Next fall I'll show them a thing or two," he said gleefully. "I'll
make souvenir crockery sets the rage."

The Coffee-colored Angel and the petty annoyances of the Green House
forgot, he went with a hitch and a kick, loping along, while his
delicately-balanced imagination, now soaring above the gloomy descents
of the morning, swam joyfully in the realms of future triumphs.

In this abstracted mood he passed Foundation's gloomy portals and
Laloo standing in his door gazing down the road, and took the leafy
path that led to the Green.

All at once he heard a battle cry and, turning, beheld the
Coffee-colored Angel and the White Mountain Canary spring from their
concealment and bear down upon him with unmistakable intent. Now,
whether in a former existence Dink had been parent to the fox, or
whether the purely human instinct was quicker than the reason, before
he knew what he had done he had bounded forward and burst for home in
full flight, with his heart pumping at his ribs. Easily distancing his
pursuers, he arrived at the Green House before it dawned upon him that
he had been challenged and run away.

He stopped abruptly with clenched fists, breathing deep.

"Now let them come," he said, turning.

But the Coffee-colored Angel and the White Mountain Canary, having
abandoned the hopeless chase, had gone another way.

Angry and ashamed, Dink went to his room, vowing terrific vengeance.
He planted himself before the mirror and, doubling up either arm, felt
the well-hardened muscles.

"There were two of them, and I didn't have time to think," he said.
"I'll fight 'em--any of 'em."

Reassured by the scowling ferocity of his reflected countenance, he
turned away. But, passing near the window, he saw the Coffee-colored
Angel and the White Mountain Canary come militantly up the stone walk.
A moment later their steps sounded on the stairs. He went hastily to
the door and shot the key. An instant later the door was tried, and
then the contemptuous face of the Coffee-colored Angel loomed through
the transom.

"I knew you were yellow the moment I looked at you," he said
scornfully. "Pah!"

Dink did not answer. He was all in a whirl. His action in locking the
door, so contrary to his heroic resolutions, left him in confusion.

"I wonder if I really am afraid," he said, sitting down-all in a heap.
The look in the Coffee-colored Angel's eye had brought him an
unpleasant creeping sensation in the region of the back.

And yet the Coffee-colored Angel, bone for bone and inch for inch, was
just what he was--only he had fled from him, inadvertently,
instinctively, it is true, yet feeling the running menace at his back.

"I'm a coward!" he said, staring at the opposite wall. "I must be a
coward! If I weren't I would have opened that door."

Now, Dink had never fought a real fight. He had had a few
rough-and-tumble skirmishes, but a fight where you stood up and looked
a man in the whites of the eyes, a deliberate, planned-out fight, was
outside his knowledge, in the mists of the unknown. And so his
imagination--which later should be his strength--recoiled before that
unknown as it had recoiled the moment he stepped from the stage to
face his new judges; as it had recoiled in the hushed parlor before
the closed door of the head master's den, and again at the thought of
stepping into the batter's box and risking his head against the deadly
shoots of Nick Carter, of the Cleve. He had never fought, therefore he
was aghast at the fear of being afraid.

"Well, I won't run again," he said desperately. "I'll have it over
with--he can only lick me."

But he did run again, and often, despite all his resolves, impelled
always by the psychological precedent that he had run before.

The Coffee-colored Angel and the White Mountain Canary made a regular
ceremony of it, raising a hue and cry at the sight of him and bursting
into derisive laughter after short chases.

Dink was miserable and now thoroughly frightened. He slunk into the
solitude of his own company, avoiding the disdainful looks of his
House mates. He knew now he was a coward and should never be anything
else. He did not blame Butsey, who scarcely spoke to him. All he
thought of was, by roundabout ways, to put off the dreadful hour when
either the Coffee-colored Angel or the White Mountain Canary should
catch him and beat him to a quivering, senseless pulp.

Then the unexpected happened. One day, cutting across fields to avoid
his persecutors, he was suddenly shut off by the White Mountain
Canary, who rose from ambush, jeering horribly. Cut off from the
Green, Dink returned post-haste up the village, when all at once the
Coffee-colored Angel closed in on him. Only one way of escape was open
to him, down an alley between two houses. With the Coffee-colored
Angel at his heels he dashed ahead, turned the corner of the house
and found himself caught in a blind area.

Whereupon he turned on the Coffee-colored Angel and slathered him,
drove him hither and thither with terrific blows, knocked him head
over heels, caught him by the throat and beat him against a wall,
rolled him on the ground and rubbed him in the dust, tore his clothes,
blacked his eyes and left him beaten and supinely, passively
wallowing.

He walked out on his tiptoes, like a terrier, head erect, his chest
out, fists still folded, tears in his eyes--tears of pride and relief.
He had fought a fight, he had received terrific blows and minded them
not. He had thrashed the Coffee-colored Angel: he could thrash or take
a thrashing from any one. He had his first thrill, the thrill of
conscious rage, comparable only to first love and first sorrow. He had
licked the Coffee-colored Angel--he was not a coward!

At this highly-auspicious moment the unsuspecting White Mountain
Canary perceived the despised object of his chase and, raising a
shout, triumphantly bore down upon him. With a rush he cleared the
intervening space and then, catching sight of the new Dink, stopped as
though he had been jerked in by a rope.

       *     *     *     *     *

A few moments later the group on the Green House steps were lazily
working out a French translation, which Beekstein, the Secretary of
the Department of Education, was reading to them, when suddenly, in
the fields opposite, two figures appeared, zigzagging wildly.

"Here comes the Dink again," said Stuffy Brown. "They'll get him this
time."

"Who's after him?" said Tough McCarty. "He's a disgrace to the House."

"It's the White Mountain Canary," said Susie Satterly.

"Hello!" said Cheyenne.

"What?"

"I'll be darned--no--yes--dinged if it isn't the Dink chasing the
Canary!"

As they sprang up, amazed, Stover dove at the fleeing tormentor,
caught him, and the two went down in a heap, thrashing to and fro.

"Well, I'll be jig-swiggered!" said Cheyenne.

"I'll eat my pants!"

"The Dink!"

At this moment the awful wreck of the Coffee-colored Angel limped up.
A chorus broke out:

"The Coffee-colored Angel!"

"Shot to pieces!"

"Massacred!"

"Kicked by a horse!"

"What hit you?"

"Dink," said the Coffee-colored Angel, taking a tooth out of his
muddy mouth. "I caught him."

Presently they saw Stover arise and loose the battered White Mountain
Canary, who broke wildly for shelter.

"Well, anyhow," said the Coffee-colored Angel, "Dink's swallowed the
Canary."

"What's he up to now?" said Cheyenne.

They watched him approach the fence, deliberately take off his coat,
remove his collar and necktie, tighten his belt and methodically,
slowly roll up his sleeves.

"Here he comes," said the Coffee-colored Angel, moving swiftly away.
"Why, he's crying!"

Dink came up the path, choking with rage and the knowledge of his own
tears, and in front of them all threw down his coat.

"You thought I was afraid, did you? You thought I was a coward!" he
sobbed. "Well, I'll show you whether I'm afraid of you, any of you,
you big bullies! You big stuff, you, come on!"

And suddenly advancing, he squared off and struck Tough McCarty a wild
blow, crash on the nose.


IX


They adjourned to a sheltered spot back of the stump willows and chose
a bare space of soft, green turf. At their sides the brook ran
splashing over the cool stones.

"Who'll be Dink's second?" said Cheyenne Baxter, the referee.

There was an embarrassed pause.

"Go on, any of you," said Tough McCarty generously.

"I'll be," said the Coffee-colored Angel. "He licked me square."

He stepped over and held out his hand.

"I don't want you--I don't want your hand!" said Dink with a scream.
"I don't want any second; I won't have any! I hate you--I hate the
whole lot of you!"

Cheyenne Baxter consulted with Tough McCarty and came over.

"Say, Dink," he said kindly, "Tough doesn't want to fight you now; it
isn't fair. He'll give you a fight any time you want--when you're
fresh."

"I don't want to wait," cried Stover, blubbering despite himself.
"I'll fight him now. I'll show him if I'm afraid, the big bully!"

"What rounds do you want?" said Cheyenne, seeing it was wisest not to
interfere.

"I don't want any rounds," cried Dink wildly. "I want to get at him,
the great, big mucker!"

Cheyenne went over to Tough, who stood apart, looking very
uncomfortable.

"Better go on, Tough. Don't hurt the little varmint any more than you
have to."

It was a strange fight. They stood around in silence, rather
frightened at Stover's frenzy. Tough McCarty, overtopping his
antagonist by four good inches, stood on the defensive, seeking only
to ward off the storm of frantic blows that rained on him. For Dink
cared not a whit what happened to him or how he exposed himself.

Blinded by rage, crying from sheer excess of emotion, shrieking out
inarticulate denunciations, he flung himself on McCarty with the
recklessness of a mad dervish, crying:

"You thought I was a coward,--darn you! You great, fat slob! You
thought I was afraid of a licking, did you? I'll show you. Lick me now
if you can, you big brute! Lick me every day! I'm not afraid of you!"

"Confound the lunatic!" said Tough McCarty, receiving a solid thump in
the ribs. "I can't stand here, getting pummeled all day. Got to hit
him--ouch!"

Dink, in his frantic rush, throwing himself under his enemy's guard,
almost bore him to the ground by the shock of his onslaught. McCarty,
angrily brushing the blood from his already outraged nose with the
cuff of his sleeve, shook himself like an angry bear and, catching
Stover with a straight-arm blow, sent him rolling on the turf.

Back again and again came Stover, hurling himself wildly onto the
scientific fists that sent him reeling back. The green arms of the
trees, the gray faces of the onlookers, the blue of the tilting sky
rushed into the reeling earth, confounded together. He no longer saw
the being he was fighting, a white film slipped over everything and
then all went out in blank unconsciousness.

When he opened his eyes again he was on his back, looking up through
the willows at a puffy cloud that turned against the blue. At his side
the brook went softly, singing in whispers the note that stirred the
leaves.

Something wet fell on his face and trickled uncomfortably down his
neck. Some one was applying a dripping cloth.

"Coming to?" said Cheyenne Baxter.

Then Dink remembered.

"Where is he?" he cried, trying to spring up. "Fight him,--fight him
to the end!"

A strong hand pressed him down.

"There, there, you fire-eater!" said Cheyenne. "Go easy. You've had
enough blood for one afternoon. Lie back. Shut your eyes."

He heard whispering and the sound of voices going, and lost
consciousness again.

When he saw the face of the day once more he was alone with Cheyenne,
who was kneeling by his side, smiling as he watched him.

"Better now?"

"I'm all right."

"Let me carry you."

"I can stand."

Cheyenne's good right arm caught him as he tottered and held him.

"I'm all right," said Dink gruffly.

Aided by Cheyenne, he went weakly back to the Green. At the steps
Tough McCarty sprang up and advanced with outstretched hand, saying:

"Put her here, Dink; you're dead game!"

Stover put his hand behind his back.

"I don't want to shake hands," he said, flushing and gazing at Tough
McCarty until the pupils of his eyes seemed to dwindle, "with you or
any of you. I hate you all; you're a gang of muckers. I'll fight you
now: I'll fight you to-morrow. You're too big for me now; but I'll
lick you--I'll lick you next year--you, Tough McCarty--or the year
after that; you see if I don't!"

Tough McCarty stood back, rightfully offended. Cheyenne led Dink up to
his room and lectured him.

"Now, young bantam, listen to me. You've shown your colors and we
respect you for it. But you can't fight your way into being liked--put
that in your pipe and smoke it. You've got to keep a civil tongue in
your head and quit thinking this place was built for your special
benefit. Savez? You've got to win your way if you want to be one of
us. Now, when you get your head clear, go down and apologize to Tough
McCarty and the Angel, like a man."

The advice, which a day later would have been gratefully received,
came inopportunely for Dink's overwrought nerves. He gave an angry
answer--he did not want to be friends--he hated them all--he would
never apologize--never.

When Butsey White came with friendly offers he cut him short.

"Don't _you_ come rubbering around now," he said scornfully. "You went
back on me. You thought I was afraid. I'll do without your friendship
now."

When a calmer view had come to him he regretted what he had done. He
eliminated Tough McCarty--that was a feud of the instincts--but it
certainly had been white of the Coffee-colored Angel to offer to be
his second; Cheyenne was every inch a leader, and Butsey really had
been justified. Unfortunately, his repentance came too late; the
damage had been done. Only one thing could right him--an apology to
the assembled House; but as the courage to apologize is the last
virtue to be acquired--if it ever is acquired--Dink in his pride would
rather have chopped off his hand than admit his error. They had
misjudged him; they would have to come to him. The breach, once made,
widened rapidly--due, principally, to Dink's own morbid pride. Some of
the things he did were simply ridiculous and some were flagrantly
impudent.

He was one against eight--but one who had learned his strength, who
feared no longer the experiences he knew. He stood ready to back his
acts of belligerency with his fists against any one--except, of
course, Butsey White; for roommates do not fight unless they love one
another.

He had always in him the spirit of the rebel. To be forbid a thing,
with him, was to do it instantly. He refused all the service a
Freshman should do. At table he took a malignant delight in demanding
loudly second and third helps of the abhorrent prunes--long after he
had come to feel the universal antagonism. He would not wake Butsey
in the morning, fill his basin or arrange his shoes. He would run no
errands. He refused to say sir or doff his hat to his superiors in the
morning; and, being better supplied with money, he took particular
pleasure in entering the House with boxes of jiggers or tins of potted
meats and a bottle of rootbeer, with which he openly gorged himself at
night, while Butsey squirmed over the unappetizing pages of the Gallic
Wars.

Finally, the blow came. Cheyenne Baxter, as president of the House,
appeared one evening and hurled on him the ban of excommunication--from
that hour he was to be put in Coventry.

From that moment no one spoke to him or by the slightest look noticed
his existence. Dink at first attempted to laugh at this exile.

At every opportunity he joined the group on the steps. No one
addressed him. If he spoke no one answered. At table the
Coffee-colored Angel no longer asked him to pass his plate, but passed
it around the other way. He went out in the evenings and placed his
cap in line with the other boys', but the ball never went into his
hat. If he stood, hoping to be hit, no one seemed to notice that he
was standing there. For several days he sought to brazen it out with a
miserable, sinking feeling, and then he gave it up. He had thought he
cared nothing for the company of his House mates--he soon discovered
his error and recognized his offending. But apology was now out of the
question. He was a pariah, a leper, and so must continue--a thing to
be shunned.

The awful loneliness of his punishment threw him on his own resources.
At night he lay in his bed and heard Butsey steal out to a midnight
spread behind closed doors, or to join a band that, risking the sudden
creak of a treacherous step, went down the stairs and out to wend
their way with other sweltering bands across the moonlit ways, through
negro settlements, where frantic dogs bayed at the sticks they rattled
over the picket fences, to the banks of the canal for a cooling frolic
in the none too fragrant waters.

HILLCRIST. I don't interfere with your mother in such matters. She may
go and call on the devil himself if she likes.

JILL. I know you're ever so much better than she is.

HILLCRIST.

That's respectful.

JILL.

You do keep your prejudices out of your phiz. But mother literally
looks down her nose. And she never forgives an "h." They'd get the
"hell" from her if they took the "hinch."
HILLCRIST. Jill-your language!

JILL. Don't slime out of it, Dodo. I say, mother ought to call on
the Hornblowers. [No answer.] Well?

HILLCRIST. My dear, I always let people have the last word. It makes
them--feel funny. Ugh! My foot![Enter FELLOWS, Left.] Fellows, send
into the village and get another bottle of this stuff.

JILL. I'll go, darling.

[She blow him a kiss, and goes out at the window.]

HILLCRIST. And tell cook I've got to go on slops. This foot's worse.

FELLOWS. [Sympathetic] Indeed, sir.

HILLCRIST. My third go this year, Fellows.

FELLOWS. Very annoying, sir.

HILLCRIST. Ye-es. Ever had it?

FELLOWS. I fancy I have had a twinge, sir.

HILLCRIST. [Brightening] Have you? Where?

FELLOWS. In my cork wrist, sir.

HILLCRIST. Your what?

FELLOWS. The wrist I draw corks with.

HILLCRIST. [With a cackle] You'd have had more than a twinge if you'd
lived with my father. H'm!

FELLOWS. Excuse me, sir--Vichy water corks, in my experience, are
worse than any wine.

HILLCRIST. [Ironically] Ah! The country's not what it was, is it,
Fellows?

FELLOWS. Getting very new, sir.

HILLCRIST. [Feelingly] You're right. Has Dawker come?

FELLOWS. Not yet, sir. The Jackmans would like to see you, sir.

HILLCRIST. What about?

FELLOWS. I don't know, sir.

HILLCRIST. Well, show them in.

FELLOWS. [Going] Yes, sir.

[HILLCRIST turns his swivel chair round. The JACKMANS come in.
He, a big fellow about fifty, in a labourer's dress, with eyes
which have more in then than his tongue can express; she, a little
woman with a worn face, a bright, quick glance, and a tongue to
match.]

HILLCRIST. Good morning, Mrs. Jackman! Morning, Jackman! Haven't seen
you for a long time. What can I do?

[He draws in foot, and breath, with a sharp hiss.]
HILLCRIST.

[In a down-hearted voice] We've had notice to quit, sir.

HILLCRIST. [With emphasis] What!

  JACKMAN. Got to be out this
    week.
  
    MRS. J. Yes, sir,
  indeed.

HILLCRIST. Well, but when I sold Longmeadow and the cottages, it was
on the express understanding that there was to be no disturbance
of tenancies:

MRS.

J. Yes, sir; but we've all got to go. Mrs.

'Arvey, and the Drews, an' us, and there isn't another cottage to
be had anywhere in Deepwater.

HILLCRIST.

I know; I want one for my cowman.

This won't do at all.

Where do you get it from?

JACKMAN. Mr. 'Ornblower, 'imself, air. Just an hour ago. He come round
and said: "I'm sorry; I want the cottages, and you've got to clear."

MRS. J.

[Bitterly] He's no gentleman, sir; he put it so brisk.

We been there thirty years, and now we don't know what to do.

So I hope you'll excuse us coming round, sir.

HILLCRIST. I should think so, indeed! H'm!

[He rises and limps across to the fireplace on his stick.

To himself] The cloven hoof.
By George! this is a breach of faith.

I'll write to him, Jackman.

Confound it! I'd certainly never have sold if I'd known he was going
to do this.

MRS. J. No, sir, I'm sure, sir.

They do say it's to do with the potteries.

He wants the cottages for his workmen.

HILLCRIST.

[Sharply] That's all very well, but he shouldn't have led me to
suppose that he would make no change.

JACKMAN. [Heavily] They talk about his havin' bought the Centry to
gut up more chimneys there, and that's why he wants the cottages.

HINT. The Centry! Impossible!

[Mrs. J. Yes, air; it's such a pretty spot-looks beautiful from
here. [She looks out through the window] Loveliest spot in all
Deepwater, I always say. And your father owned it, and his father
before 'im.

It's a pity they ever sold it, sir, beggin' your pardon.]

HILLCRIST.

The Centry! [He rings the bell.]

Mrs. J.

[Who has brightened up] I'm glad you're goin' to stop it, sir.

It does put us about.

We don't know where to go. I said to Mr. Hornblower, I said, "I'm sure
Mr. Hillcrist would never 'eve turned us out." An' 'e said: "Mr.
Hillcrist be----" beggin' your pardon, sir.

"Make no mistake," 'e said, "you must go, missis." He don't even know
our name; an' to come it like this over us!

He's a dreadful new man, I think, with his overridin notions.

And sich a heavyfooted man, to look at. [With a sort of indulgent
contempt] But he's from the North, they say.

[FELLOWS has entered, Left.]

HILLCRIST.

Ask Mrs. Hillcrist if she'll come.

FELLOWS. Very good, sir.

HILLCRIST. Is Dawker here?

FELLOWS. Not yet, sir.

HILLCRIST. I want to see him at once.

[FELLOWS retires.]
JACKMAN. Mr.

Hornblower said he was comin' on to see you, sir.

So we thought we'd step along first.

HILLCRIST.

Quite right, Jackman.

MRS. J. I said to Jackman: "Mr. Hillcrist'll stand up for us, I know.
He's a gentleman," I said. "This man," I said, "don't care for the
neighbourhood, or the people; he don't care for anything so long
as he makes his money, and has his importance.

You can't expect it, I suppose," I said; [Bitterly] "havin' got rich so
sudden." The gentry don't do things like that.

HILLCRIST. [Abstracted] Quite, Mrs.

Jackman, quite!
[To himself] The Centry! No!

  
    [MRS. HILLCRIST enters. A well-dressed woman,
  with a firm, clear-cut face.]
    Oh! Amy! Mr. and Mrs. Jackman
                        turned out of
  their cottage, and Mrs. Harvey, and the
    Drews. When I sold to Hornblower,
  I stipulated that they shouldn't be.
    

MRS. J. Our week's up on Saturday, ma'am, and I'm sure I don't know
where we shall turn, because of course Jackman must be near his work,
and I shall lose me washin' if we have to go far.

  HILLCRIST. [With decision] You leave
    it to me, Mrs. Jackman. Good
  morning! Morning, Jackman! Sorry I
    can't move with this gout.
  
    MRS. J. [For them both] I'm sure we're very
  sorry, sir. Good morning, sir. Good
    morning, ma'am; and thank you
  kindly. [They go out.]
    HILLCRIST.

Turning people out that have been there thirty years. I won't have it.
It's a breach of faith.

MRS. H. Do you suppose this Hornblower will care two straws about that
Jack?

HILLCRIST.

He must, when it's put to him, if he's got any decent feeling.

MRS. H.

He hasn't.

HILLCRIST.

[Suddenly] The Jackmans talk of his having bought the Centry to put
up more chimneys.

MRS. H. Never! [At the window, looking out] Impossible! It would ruin
the place utterly; besides cutting us off from the Duke's. Oh, no!
Miss Mullins would never sell behind our backs.

HILLCRIST. Anyway I must stop his turning these people out.

Mrs. H. [With a little smile, almost contemptuous] You might have known
he'd do something of the sort. You will imagine people are like
yourself, Jack.

You always ought to make Dawker have things in black and white.

HILLCRIST. I said quite distinctly: "Of course you won't want to disturb
the tenancies; there's a great shortage of cottages."

Hornblower told me as distinctly that he wouldn't.

  What more do you want?
  
    Mrs. H. A man like that
    thinks of nothing but the
  short cut to his own way.

  [Looking out of the window towards the
  rise] If he buys the Centry and puts up chimneys,
  we simply couldn't stop here.
  

HILLCRIST. My father would turn in his grave.

MRS.

H. It would have been more useful if he'd not dipped the estate, and
sold the Centry. This Hornblower hates us; he thinks we turn up our
noses at him.

HILLCRIST.

As we do, Amy.

  
  MRS. H. Who wouldn't? A man
    without traditions, who believes
    in nothing but money and
  push.

HILLCRIST.

Suppose he won't budge, can we do anything for the Jackmans?

MRS. H. There are the two rooms Beaver used to have, over the
stables.

FELLOWS. Mr. Dawker, sir.

[DAWKERS is a short, square, rather red-faced terrier of a man, in riding
clothes and gaiters.]
HILLCRIST. Ah! Dawker, I've got gout again.

DAWKER. Very sorry, sir. How de do, ma'am?

HILLCRIST.

Did you meet the Jackmans?

DAWKERS.

Yeh.

[He hardly ever quite finishes a word, seeming to snap of their
tails.]

HILLCRIST. Then you heard?

DAWKER.

[Nodding] Smart man, Hornblower; never lets grass grow.

HILLCRIST.

Smart?

DAWKER.

[Grinning] Don't do to underrate your neighbours.

MRS. H.

A cad--I call him.

DAWKER.

  That's it, ma'am-got all the
  advantage.
    
    HILLCRIST. Heard anything
  about the Centry, Dawker?

DAWKER. Hornblower wants to buy.

HILLCRIST. Miss Mullins would never sell, would she?

DAWKER. She wants to.

HILLCRIST. The deuce she does!

DAWKER. He won't stick at the price either.

MRS. H. What's it worth, Dawker?

DAWKER.

Depends on what you want it for.

MRS. H.

He wants it for spite; we want it for sentiment.

DAWKER.

[Grinning] Worth what you like to give, then; but he's a rich man.

MRS. H. Intolerable!

DAWKER.

  [To HILLCRIST] Give me
  your figure, sir. I'll
  try the old lady
  before he gets at her.

HILLCRIST. [Pondering] I don't want to buy, unless there's nothing
else for it.

  I should have to raise the money on the estate;
  it won't stand much more. I can't believe
    the fellow would be such a
    barbarian. Chimneys within
  three hundred yards, right in front of this house!

It's a nightmare.

MRS. H.

You'd much better let Dawker make sure, Jack.

HILLCRIST. [Uncomfortable] Jackman says Hornblower's coming round to
see me. I shall put it to him.

DAWKER.

Make him keener than ever.

Better get in first.

HILLCRIST. Ape his methods!--Ugh! Confound this gout!

[He gets back to his chair with difficulty] Look here, Dawker, I
wanted to see you about gates---- 
FELLOWS.

[Entering] Mr.

Hornblower.

[HORNBLOWER enters-a man of medium, height, thoroughly broadened, blown
out, as it were, by success. He has thick, coarse, dark hair, just
grizzled, wry bushy eyebrow, a wide mouth. He wears quite ordinary
clothes, as if that department were in charge of someone who knew
about such, things.

He has a small rose in his buttonhole, and carries a Homburg hat,
which one suspects will look too small on his head.]

HORNBLOWER. Good morning!

good morning!

How are ye, Dawker? Fine morning!

Lovely weather!

[His voice has a curious blend in its tone of brass and oil, and
an accent not quite Scotch nor quite North country.]

Haven't seen ye for a long time, Hillcrist.

HILLCRIST.

[Who has risen] Not since I sold you Longmeadow and those cottages,
I believe.

HORNBLOWER.

Dear me, now!

that's what I came about.

HILLCRIST. [Subsiding again into his chair] Forgive me! Won't you sit
down?

HORNBLOWER. [Not sitting] Have ye got gout? That's unfortunate.
I never get it.

I've no disposition that way.

Had no ancestors, you see.

Just me own drinkin' to answer for.

HILLCRIST.

You're lucky.

HORNBLOWER. I wonder if Mrs. Hillcrist thinks that!

Am I lucky to have no past, ma'am? Just the future?

MRS. H. You're sure you have the future, Mr.

Hornblower?

HORNBLOWER.

[With a laugh] That's your aristocratic rapier thrust.

You aristocrats are very hard people underneath your manners.

Ye love to lay a body out.

But I've got the future all right.

HILLCRIST. [Meaningly] I've had the Dackmans here, Mr. Hornblower.

HORNBLOWER. Who are they--man with the little spitfire wife?

  HILLCRIST. They're very excellent,
    good people, and they've
  been in that cottage quietly
    thirty years.
  
    HORNBLOWER. [Throwing out his
  forefinger--a favourite gesture]
    Ah!

  ye've wanted me to stir ye up
    a bit. Deepwater needs a bit
  o' go put into it. There's generally
    some go where I am. I
  daresay you wish there'd been no
    "come." [He laughs].
  
    MRS. H.

We certainly like people to keep their word, Mr.
Hornblower.

HILLCRIST. Amy!

HORNBLOWER.

Never mind, Hillcrist; takes more than that to upset me.

[MRS. HILLCRIST exchanges a look with DAWKER who slips out unobserved.]

HILLCRIST.

You promised me, you know, not to change the tenancies.

HORNBLOWER. Well, I've come to tell ye that I have. I wasn't expecting
to have the need when I bought.

Thought the Duke would sell me a bit down there; but devil a bit he
will; and now I must have those cottages for my workmen.

I've got important works, ye know.

HILLCRIST.

[Getting heated] The Jackmans have their importance too, sir.

Their heart's in that cottage.

HORNBLOWER.

Have a sense of proportion, man.

My works supply thousands of people, and my, heart's in them.

What's more, they make my fortune.

I've got ambitions--I'm a serious man.

Suppose I were to consider this and that, and every little potty
objection-- where should I get to?

--nowhere!

HILLCRIST.

All the same, this sort of thing isn't done, you know.

HORNBLOWER.

Not by you because ye've got no need to do it.

Here ye are, quite content on what your fathers made for ye.

Ye've no ambitions; and ye want other people to have none.

How d'ye think your fathers got your land?

HILLCRIST. [Who has risen] Not by breaking their word.

HORNBLOWER. [Throwing out his, finger] Don't ye believe it. They
got it by breaking their word and turnin' out Jackmans, if that's
their name, all over the place.

MRS. H. That's an insult, Mr. Hornblower.

HORNBLOWER.

No; it's a repartee.

If ye think so much of these Jackmans, build them a cottage yourselves;
ye've got the space.

HILLCRIST.

That's beside the point.

You promised me, and I sold on that understanding.

HORNBLOWER. And I bought on the understandin' that I'd get some more
land from the Duke.

HILLCRIST. That's nothing to do with me.

HORNBLOWER.

Ye'll find it has; because I'm going to have those cottages.

HILLCRIST.

Well, I call it simply---- 
[He checks himself.]

HORNBLOWER.

Look here, Hillcrist, ye've not had occasion to understand men like
me.

I've got the guts, and I've got the money; and I don't sit still
on it.

I'm going ahead because I believe in meself.

I've no use for sentiment and that sort of thing. Forty of your
Jackmans aren't worth me little finger.

HILLCRIST.

[Angry] Of all the blatant things I ever heard said!

  
    HORNBLOWER. Well, as we're speaking
  plainly, I've been thinkin'.
    Ye want the village run your
  oldfashioned way, and I want it run
    mine. I fancy there's not room
  for the two of us here.
    

MRS. H. When are you going?

  
  HORNBLOWER. Never
  fear, I'm not
  going.
  
  HILLCRIST. Look here, Mr.

Hornblower--this infernal gout makes me irritable--puts me at a
disadvantage. But I should be glad if you'd kindly explain
yourself.

HORNBLOWER. [With a great smile] Ca' canny; I'm fra' the North.

HILLCRIST.

I'm told you wish to buy the Centry and put more of your chimneys
up there, regardless of the fact [He Points through the window]
that it would utterly ruin the house we've had for generations, and
all our pleasure here.

HORNBLOWER.

How the man talks!

Why!

Ye'd think he owned the sky, because his fathers built him a house
with a pretty view, where he's nothing to do but live.

It's sheer want of something to do that gives ye your fine sentiments,
Hillcrist.

HILLCRIST.

Have the goodness not to charge me with idleness.
Dawker--where is he?

----[He shows the bureau] When you do the drudgery of your works
as thoroughly as I do that of my estate---- Is it true about the
Centry?

HORNBLOWER. Gospel true. If ye want to know, my son Chearlie is buyin'
it this very minute.

MRS. H. [Turning with a start] What do you say?

HORNBLOWER. Ay, he's with the old lady she wants to sell, an' she'll
get her price, whatever it is.

HILLCRIST. [With deep anger] If that isn't a skin game, Mr.
Hornblower, I don't know what is.

HORNBLOWER. Ah!

Ye've got a very nice expression there.

"Skin game!" Well, bad words break no bones, an' they're wonderful for
hardenin' the heart.

If it wasn't for a lady's presence, I could give ye a specimen or
two.

MRS.

H. Oh! Mr. Hornblower, that need not stop you, I'm sure.

HORNBLOWER.

Well, and I don't know that it need. Ye're an obstruction--the like
of you--ye're in my path.

And anyone in my path doesn't stay there long; or, if he does, he
stays there on my terms. And my terms are chimneys in the Centry where
I need 'em.

It'll do ye a power of good, too, to know that ye're not almighty.

HILLCRIST. And that's being neighbourly!

HORNBLOWER.

And how have ye tried bein' neighbourly to me?

If I haven't a wife, I've got a daughter-in-law.

Have Ye celled on her, ma'am?

I'm new, and ye're an old family. Ye don't like me, ye think I'm a
pushin' man.

I go to chapel, an' ye don't like that.

I make things and I sell them, and ye don't like that. I buy land,
and ye don't like that. It threatens the view from your windies.
Well, I don't lie you, and I'm not goin' to put up with your attitude.

Ye've had things your own way too long, and now ye're not going
to have them any longer.

HILLCRIST. Will you hold to your word over those cottages?

HORNBLOWER.

I'm goin' to have the cottages. I need them, and more besides, now
I'm to put up me new works.

HILLCRIST. That's a declaration of war.

HORNBLOWER. Ye never said a truer word. It's one or the other of
us, and I rather think it's goin' to be me.

I'm the risin' and you're the settin' sun, as the poet says.

HILLCRIST. [Touching the bell] We shall see if you can ride
rough-shod like this.

We used to have decent ways of going about things here.

You want to change all that. Well, we shall do our damnedest to
stop you. [To FELLOWS at the door] Are the Jackmans still in the
house? Ask them to be good enough to come in.
HORNBLOWER. [With the first sign of uneasiness] I've seen these
people. I've nothing more to say to them. I told 'em I'd give 'em
five pounds to cover their moving.
HILLCRIST. It doesn't occur to you that people, however humble,
like to have some say in their own fate?
HORNBLOWER. I never had any say in mine till I had the brass, and
nobody ever will. It's all hypocrisy. You county folk are fair awful
hypocrites. Ye talk about good form and all that sort o' thing.
It's just the comfortable doctrine of the man in the saddle;
sentimental varnish. Ye're every bit as hard as I am, underneath.
MRS. H. [Who had been standing very still all this time] You flatter
us.
HORNBLOWER. Not at all. God helps those who 'elp themselves-- that's
at the bottom of all religion. I'm goin' to help meself, and God's
going to help me.

MRS. H. I admire your knowledge.
HILLCRIST. We are in the right, and God helps----
HORNBLOWER. Don't ye believe it; ye 'aven't got the energy.
MRS. H. Nor perhaps the conceit.
HORNBLOWER. [Throwing out his forefinger] No, no; 'tisn't conceit
to believe in yourself when ye've got reason to. [The JACKMAN'S
have entered.]
HILLCRIST. I'm very sorry, Mrs. Jackman, but I just wanted you to
realise that I've done my best with this gentleman.
MRS. J. [Doubtfully] Yes, sir. I thought if you spoke for us, he'd
feel different-like.
HORNBLOWER. One cottage is the same as another, missis. I made ye
a fair offer of five pounds for the moving.
JACKMAN. [Slowly] We wouldn't take fifty to go out of that 'ouse.
We brought up three children there, an' buried two from it.
MRS. J. [To MRS. HILLCRIST] We're attached to it like, ma'am.
HILLCRIST. [To HORNBLOWER.] How would you like being turned out of
a place you were fond of?
HORNBLOWER. Not a bit. But little considerations have to give way
to big ones. Now, missis, I'll make it ten pounds, and I'll send a
wagon to shift your things. If that isn't fair--! Ye'd better accept,
I shan't keep it open.
[The JACKMANS look at each other; their faces show deep anger-- and
the question they ask each other is which will speak.]
MRS. J. We won't take it; eh, George?
JACKMAN. Not a farden. We come there when we was married.
HORNBLOWER. [Throwing out his finger] Ye're very improvident
folk.
HILLCRIST. Don't lecture them, Mr. Hornblower; they come out of
this miles above you.
HORNBLOWER. [Angry] Well, I was going to give ye another week, but
ye'll go out next Saturday; and take care ye're not late, or your
things'll be put out in the rain.
MRS. H. [To MRS. JACKMAN] We'll send down for your things, and you
can come to us for the time being.
[MRS. JACKMAN drops a curtsey; her eyes stab HORNBLOWERS.]
JACKMAN. [Heavily, clenching his fists] You're no gentleman!
Don't put temptation in my way, that's all,
HILLCRIST. [In a low voice] Jackman!
HORNBLOWER. [Triumphantly] Ye hear that? That's your protegee!
Keep out o' my way, me man, or I'll put the police on to ye for
utterin' threats.

HILLCRIST. You'd better go now, Jackman.
[The JACKMANS move to the door.]
MRS. J. [Turning] Maybe you'll repent it some day, sir.
[They go out, MRS. HILLCRIST following.]
HORNBLOWER. We-ell, I'm sorry they're such unreasonable folk. I
never met people with less notion of which side their bread was
buttered.

HILLCRIST. And I never met anyone so pachydermatous.
HORNBLOWER. What's that, in Heaven's name? Ye needn' wrap it up in
long words now your good lady's gone.
HILLCRIST. [With dignity] I'm not going in for a slanging match.
I resent your conduct much too deeply.
HORNBLOWER. Look here, Hillcrist, I don't object to you personally;
ye seem to me a poor creature that's bound to get left with your
gout and your dignity; but of course ye can make yourself very
disagreeable before ye're done. Now I want to be the movin' spirit
here. I'm full of plans. I'm goin' to stand for Parliament; I'm
goin' to make this a prosperous place. I'm a good-matured man if
you'll treat me as such. Now, you take me on as a neighbour and all
that, and I'll manage without chimneys on the Centry. Is it a
bargain? [He holds out his hand.]
HILLCRIST. [Ignoring it] I thought you said you didn't keep your
word when it suited you to break it?
HORNBLOWER. Now, don't get on the high horse. You and me could be
very good friends; but I can be a very nasty enemy. The chimneys
will not look nice from that windie, ye know.
HILLCRIST. [Deeply angry] Mr. Hornblower, if you think I'll take
your hand after this Jackman business, you're greatly mistaken. You
are proposing that I shall stand in with you while you tyrannise
over the neighbourhood. Please realise that unless you leave those
tenancies undisturbed as you said you would, we don't know each
other.
HORNBLOWER. Well, that won't trouble me much. Now, ye'd better think
it over; ye've got gout and that makes ye hasty. I tell ye again:
I'm not the man to make an enemy of. Unless ye're friendly, sure
as I stand here I'll ruin the look of your place.
[The toot of a car is heard.]
There's my car. I sent Chearlie and his wife in it to buy the Centry.
And make no mistake--he's got it in his packet. It's your last
chance, Hillcrist. I'm not averse to you as a man; I think ye're
the best of the fossils round here; at least, I think ye can do me
the most harm socially. Come now!
[He holds out his hand again.]
HILLCRIST. Not if you'd bought the Centry ten times over. Your ways
are not mine, and I'll have nothing to do with you.
HORNBLOWER. [Very angry] Really! Is that so? Very well. Now ye're
goin' to learn something, an' it's time ye did. D'ye realise that
I'm 'very nearly round ye? [He draws a circle slowly in the air]
I'm at Uphill, the works are here, here's Longmeadow, here's the
Centry that I've just bought, there's only the Common left to give
ye touch with the world. Now between you and the Common there's the
high road.
I come out on the high road here to your north, and I shall come
out on it there to your west. When I've got me new works up on the
Centry, I shall be makin' a trolley track between the works up to
the road at both ends, so any goods will be running right round
ye.
How'll ye like that for a country place?
[For answer HILLCRIST, who is angry beyond the power of speech,
walks, forgetting to use his stick, up to the French window.
While he stands there, with his back to HORNBLOWER, the door L.
is flung open, and Jim enters, preceding CHARLES, his wife CHLOE,
and ROLF. CHARLES is a goodish-looking, moustached young man of
about twenty-eight, with a white rim to the collar of his waistcoat,
and spats. He has his hand behind CHLOE'S back, as if to prevent
her turning tail. She is rather a handsome young woman, with dark
eyes, full red lips, and a suspicion of powder, a little under-dressed
for the country."What do you think of the electric lights they've given us?"

"They've stuck an arc light in the Circle, too."

"We'll fix that."

"How's the new material, King?"

"Rotten!"

"Think we've a chance for the House championship?"

"A fine chance--to finish last."

"Say, who do you think they've stuck us with?"

"Who?"

"Beekstein."

"Suffering Moses!"

"Never mind. We've got the Dink."

"What's he do?"

"He's the champion truckman--carry your trunk for you anywhere you
want."

Dink, thus brought unwillingly into the conversation, blushed a warm
red.

"Truckman?" said P. Lentz, mystified.

"Champion," said Finnegan. "The mysterious champion truckman of Broad
Street Station, Philadelphia. Stand up, Dink, my man, and twitch your
muscles."

Stover squirmed uneasily on his chair. There was no malice in the
teasing, and yet he was at a loss how to turn it.

The Gutter Pup, as president of the Sporting Club and chief authority
on the life and works of the late Marquis of Queensberry, examined the
embarrassed Stover, running professional fingers over his legs and
arms.

"You're the fellow who tried to fight the whole Green House, aren't
you?" he said, immensely interested.

"Why, yes."

"Good nerve," said the Gutter Pup. "You've got something the style of
Beans Middleton, who stood up to me for ten rounds in the days of the
old Seventy-second Street gang. I'll train you up some time. You'd do
well with the crouching style--good reach, quick on the trigger and
all that sort of thing. Like fighting?"

"Why, I--I don't know," said Stover helplessly, unable to make out
whether the Gutter Pup spoke in jest.

"Modest and brave!" said the irrepressible Finnegan.

The conversation drifted away; Stover, with a sigh of relief,
obliterated himself in a corner, feeling immense distances between
himself and the laughing group that continued to exchange rapid
banter.

"Dennis, they tell me you're fresher than ever."

"Sir, you compliment me."

"Say, Boru, have they put you on the bottle yet?"

"Not yet, Lovely. Waiting for you to drop it."

It was not particularly brilliant, but it was good-natured, and there
was a certain trick to it that he had lost in the long weeks of
Coventry.

Presently the group departed to take the keen edge off the approaching
luncheon pangs by a trip to the Jigger Shop, the center of social
life.

"Coming, Dink?" said the Gutter Pup.

"I--I'll be over a little later," said Stover, who did and did not
want to go.

Left alone, half angry at his own enforced aloofness, and yet desiring
solitude, Stover stood among the litter of boxes and gaping trunks and
surveyed the four bare walls that spelled for him the word home.

"It's a bully room--bully," he said to himself with a tender feeling
of possession. "The Shad's a bully fellow--bully! Dennis is a corker!
I'm going to make good; see if I don't! But I'm going slow. They've
got to come to me. I won't break in until they want me. Gee! What a
peach of a room!"

He went to the window and looked out at the whole panorama of the
school that ran beneath him, from the long, rakish lines of the Upper,
by Memorial Hall, to the chapel and the circle of Houses that ended at
the rear with the Dickinson. Below, boys were streaking across the
green depths like water-bugs over limpid surfaces, or hallooing
joyfully from window to terrace, greeting one another with bearlike
hugs, tumbling about in frolicking heaps. He was on the mountain, they
on the plain. His was the imaginative perspective and the troubled
vision of one who finds a strange city at his feet.

"It's all there," he said lamely, confused by his own impressions.
"All of it."

"Homesick?" said a thin voice behind him.

He turned to find Finnegan eyeing him uncertainly.

"Why, you wild Irishman," Dink said, surprised. "Thought you'd gone
with the crowd. Hello, what's up now?"

Finnegan, with an air of great mystery, locked the door, extracted the
key and, returning, enthroned himself on a chair which he had
previously planted defiantly on a trunk.

"That's so you can't throw me out."

"Well?"

"I'm going to be fresh as paint."

"You are?" said Stover, mystified and amused.

"Fact," said Finnegan, who, having crossed his legs, plunged his hands
into his pockets and cocked one eye, said impressively: "Dink, you're
wrong."

"I am--am I?"

"But never mind; I'm here. Dennis de Brian de Boru Finnegan--ready and
willing."

"Irishman, I do believe you're embarrassed," said Stover, surprised.

"I'm not," said Finnegan indignantly. "Only--only, I want to be
impressive. Dink, you're getting in wrong again."

"What in thunder----"

"You are, Dink, you are. But don't worry; I'm here. In the first
place, you can't forget what every one else has forgotten."

"Forget what?"

"The late unpleasantness," said Finnegan, with an expelling wave of
his hand. "That's over, spiked, dished, set back, covered up,
cobwebbed, no flowers and no tombstone."

"I know."

"No, you don't--that's just it. You've got it on your mind--brooding
and all that sort of thing."

Stover sat down and stared at the Lilliputian philosopher.

"Well, I like your nerve!"

"Don't--don't start in like that," said Finnegan, rolling up his
sleeves over his funny, thin forearms, "cause I shall have to thrash
you."

"Well, go on," said Stover suddenly.

"You're not in Coventry--you never have been. You're one of us," said
Dennis glibly. "BUT--I repeat BUT--you can't be one of us if you don't
believe in your own noddle that you are one of us! Get that? That's
deep--no charge, always glad to oblige a customer."

"Keep on," said Stover, leaning back.

"With your kind permission, directly. It's all in this--you haven't
got the trick."

"The trick?"

"The trick of conversation. That's not just it. The trick of answering
back. Aha, that's better! Scratch out first sentiment. Change
signals!"

"There's something in that," said Stover, genuinely amazed.

"You blush."

"What?"

"The word was blush," said Finnegan firmly. "I saw you--Finnegan saw
you and grieved. And why? Because you didn't have the trick of
answering back."

"Dennis de Brian de Boru Finnegan," said Stover slowly, "I believe
you are a whole-hearted little cuss. Also, you're not so far off,
either. Now, since this is a serious conversation, this is where I
stand: I went through Hades last spring--I deserved it and it's done
me good. I've come back to make good. Savez? And that's a serious
thing, too. Now if you have one particular theory about your art of
conversation to elucidate--eluce."

"One theory!" said Finnegan, chirping along as he perceived the
danger-point passed. "I'm a theorist, and a real theorist doesn't have
one theory; he has dozens. Let me see; let me think, reflect,
cogitate, tickle the thinker. Best way is to start at the A, B,
C--first principles, all that sort of thing. Supposin', supposin' you
come into the room with that hat on--it's a bum hat, by the way--and
some one pipes up; 'Get that at the fire sale?' What are you going to
answer?"

"Why, I suppose I'd grin," said Stover slowly, "and say: 'How did you
guess it?'"

"Wrong," said Finnegan. "You let him take the laugh."

"Well, what?"

"Something in this style: 'Oh, no, I traded it for luck with a
squint-eyed, humpbacked biter-off of puppy-dog tails that got it out
of Rockefeller's ashcan.' See?"

"No, Dennis, no," said Stover, bewildered. "I see, but there are some
things beyond me. Every one isn't a young Shakspere."

"I know," said Finnegan, accepting the tribute without hesitation.
"But there's the principle. You go him one better. You make him look
like a chump. You show him what you could have said in his place. That
shuts him up, makes him feel foolish, spikes the gun, corks the
bottle."

"By Jove!"

"It's what I call the Superiority of the Superlative over the
Comparative."

"It sounds simple," said Stover pensively.

"When you know the trick."

"You know, Dennis," said Stover, smiling reminiscently, "I used to
have the gift of gab once, almost up to you."

"Then let's take a few crouching starts," said Dennis, delighted.

"Go ahead."

"Room full of fellows. You enter."

"I enter."

"I speak: 'Dink, I bet Bill here a quarter that you used a
toothbrush.'"

"You lose," said Stover; "I use a whisk-broom."

"Good!" said Dennis professionally, "but a little quicker, on the
jump, get on the spring-board. Try again. 'Why, Dink, how _do_ you
get such pink cheeks?'"

"That's a hard one," said Dink.

"Peanuts!"

"Let me think."

"Bad, very bad."

"Well, what would you say?"

"Can't help it, Bill; the girls won't let me alone!"

"Try me again," said Stover, laughing.

"Say, Dink, did your mamma kiss you good-by?"

"Sure, Mike," said Stover instantly; "combed my hair, dusted my hands,
and told me not to talk to fresh little kids like you."

"Why, Dink, come to my arms," said Dennis, delighted. "A Number 1.
Mark 100 for the term. That's the trick."

"Think I'll do?"

"Sure pop. Of course, there are times when the digestion's jumping
fences and you get sort of in the thunder glums. Then just answer, 'Is
that the best you can do to-day?' or 'Why, you're a real funny man,
aren't you?' sarcastic and sassy."

"I see."

"But better be original."

"Of course."

"Oh, it's all a knack."

"And to think that's all there is to it!" said Stover, profoundly
moved.

"When you know," said Dennis in correction.

"Dennis, I have a thought," said Stover suddenly. "Let's get out and
try the system."

"Presto!"

"The Jigger Shop?"

"Why tarry?"

On the way over Dink stopped short with an exclamation.

"What now?" said Finnegan.

"Tough McCarty and a female," said Stover in great indignation.

They stood aside, awkwardly snatching off their caps as McCarty and
his companion passed them on the walk. Stover saw a bit of blue felt
with the white splash of a wing across, a fluffy shirtwaist, and a
skirt that was a skirt, and nothing else. His glance went to McCarty,
meeting it with the old, measuring antagonism. They passed.

"Damn him!" said Stover.

"Why, Dink, how shocking!"

"He's grown!"

In the joy of his own increased stature he had never dreamed that like
processes of Nature produce like results.

"Ten pounds heavier," said Dennis. "He ought to make a peach of a
tackle this year!"

"Bringing girls around!" said Stover scornfully, to vent his rage.

"More to be pitied than blamed," sang Dennis on a popular air. "It's
his sister. Luscious eyes--quite the figure, too."

"Figure--huh!" said Stover, who hadn't seen.

At the Jigger Shop the Gutter Pup, looking up from a meringue entirely
surrounded by peach jiggers, hailed them:

"Hello, Rinky Dink! Changed your mind, eh? Thought you were homesick."

"Sure I was, but Dennis came in with a bucket and caught the tears,"
said Stover gravely. "I'll call you in next time. Al, how be you?
Here's what I owe you. Set 'em up."

"_Très bien_!" said Dennis de Brian de Boru Finnegan.

That night, as they started on the problem of interior decorations,
Stover threw himself on the bed, rolling with laughter.

"Well, I'm glad you've decided to be cheerful; but what in blazes are
you hee-hawing at?" said the Tennessee Shad, mystified.

"I'm laughing," said Stover, loud enough for Dennis down the hall to
hear, "at the Superiority of the Superlative over the Comparative."


XII


"Why, look at the Dink!" said Lovely Mead the next afternoon, as
Stover emerged in football togs which he had industriously smeared
with mud to conceal their novelty.

"He must be going out for the 'Varsity!" said Fatty Harris
sarcastically.

"By request," said the Gutter Pup.

"Why, who told you?" said Stover.

"You trying for the 'Varsity?" said Lovely Mead incredulously. "Why,
where did you play football?"

"Dear me, Lovely," said Stover, lacing his jacket, "thought you read
the newspapers."

"Huh! What position are you trying for?"

"First substitute scorer," said Stover, according to Finnegan's
theory. "Any more questions?"

Lovely Mead, surprised, looked at Stover in perplexity and remained
silent.

Dink, laughing to himself at the ease of the trick, started across the
Circle for the 'Varsity football field, whither already the candidates
were converging to the first call of the season.

He had started joyfully forth from the skeptics on the steps, but once
past the chapel and in sight of the field his gait abruptly changed.
He went quietly, thoughtfully, a little alarmed at his own daring,
glancing at the padded figures that overtopped him.

The veterans with the red L on their black sweaters were apart,
tossing the ball back and forth and taking playful tackles at one
another. Stover, hiding himself modestly in the common herd, watched
with entranced eyes the lithe, sinuous forms of Flash Condit and
Charlie DeSoto--greater to him than the faint heroes of mythology--as
they tumbled the Waladoo Bird gleefully on the ground. There was
Butcher Stevens of the grim eye and the laconic word, a man to follow
and emulate; and the broad span of Turkey Reiter's shoulders, a mark
to grow to. Meanwhile, Garry Cockrell, the captain, and Mr. Ware, the
new coach from the Princeton championship eleven, were drawing nearer
on their tour of inspection and classification. Dink knew his captain
only from respectful distances--the sandy hair, the gaunt cheek bones
and the deliberate eye, whom governors of states alone might approach
with equality, and no one else. Under the dual inspection the squad
was quickly sorted, some sent back to their House teams till another
year brought more weight and experience, and others tentatively
retained on the scrubs.

"Better make the House team, Jenks," said the low, even voice of the
captain. "You want to harden up a bit. Glad you reported, though."

Then Dink stood before his captain, dimly aware of the quick little
eyes of Mr. Ware quietly scrutinizing him.

"What form?"

"Third."

The two were silent a moment studying not the slender, wiry figure,
but the look in the eyes within.

"What are you out for?"

"End, sir."

"What do you weigh?"

"One hundred and fifty--about," said Dink.

A grim little twinkle appeared in the captain's eyes.

"About one hundred and thirty-five," he said, with a measuring glance.

The curtain rises again at once.

SCENE II

In the BARTHWICK'S dining-room.

JACK is still asleep; the morning light is coming through the
curtains.

The time is half-past eight. WHEELER, brisk person enters with a
dust-pan, and MRS.

JONES more slowly with a scuttle.

WHEELER. [Drawing the curtains.]

That precious husband of yours was round for you after you'd
gone yesterday, Mrs. Jones. Wanted your money for drink, I suppose.

He hangs about the corner here half the time.

I saw him outside the "Goat and Bells" when I went to the post last
night.

If I were you I would n't live with him.

I would n't live with a man that raised his hand to me.

I wouldn't put up with it. Why don't you take your children and leave
him? If you put up with 'im it'll only make him worse.

I never can see why, because a man's married you, he should knock
you about.

MRS. JONES. [Slim, dark-eyed, and dark-haired; oval-faced, and
with a smooth, soft, even voice; her manner patient, her way of
talking quite impersonal; she wears a blue linen dress, and boots
with holes.]

It was nearly two last night before he come home, and he wasn't
himself.

He made me get up, and he knocked me about; he didn't seem to know
what he was saying or doing.

Of course I would leave him, but I'm really afraid of what he'd do
to me.

He 's such a violent man when he's not himself.

WHEELER. Why don't you get him locked up? You'll never have any peace
until you get him locked up.

If I were you I'd go to the police court tomorrow. That's what I would
do.

MRS. JONES. Of course I ought to go, because he does treat me so badly
when he's not himself. But you see, Bettina, he has a very hard
time--he 's been out of work two months, and it preys upon his
mind.

When he's in work he behaves himself much better. It's when he's out of
work that he's so violent.

WHEELER. Well, if you won't take any steps you 'll never get rid of
him.

MRS.

JONES. Of course it's very wearing to me; I don't get my sleep at
nights.

And it 's not as if I were getting help from him, because I have to
do for the children and all of us.

And he throws such dreadful things up at me, talks of my having men
to follow me about.

Such a thing never happens; no man ever speaks to me.

And of course, it's just the other way. It's what he does that's wrong
and makes me so unhappy.

And then he 's always threatenin' to cut my throat if I leave him.

It's all the drink, and things preying on his mind; he 's not a bad
man really.

Sometimes he'll speak quite kind to me, but I've stood so much from
him, I don't feel it in me to speak kind back, but just keep myself
to myself.

And he's all right with the children too, except when he's not
himself.

WHEELER. You mean when he's drunk, the beauty.

MRS. JONES. Yes. [Without change of voice] There's the young gentleman
asleep on the sofa.

[They both look silently at Jack.]
MRS. JONES. [At last, in her soft voice.]

He does n't look quite himself.

WHEELER. He's a young limb, that's what he is.

It 's my belief he was tipsy last night, like your husband.

It 's another kind of bein' out of work that sets him to drink.

I 'll go and tell Marlow.

This is his job.

[She goes.]

[Mrs.

Jones, upon her knees, begins a gentle sweeping.]
JACK. [Waking.] Who's there? What is it?

MRS. JONES. It's me, sir, Mrs. Jones.

JACK. [Sitting up and looking round.] Where is it--what--what time is
it?

MRS. JONES. It's getting on for nine o'clock, sir.

JACK. For nine! Why--what! [Rising, and loosening his tongue; putting
hands to his head, and staring hard at Mrs. Jones.] Look here,
you, Mrs.----Mrs. Jones--don't you say you caught me asleep
here.

MRS. JONES. No, sir, of course I won't sir.
JACK. It's quite an accident; I don't know how it happened. I must
have forgotten to go to bed. It's a queer thing. I 've got a most
beastly headache. Mind you don't say anything, Mrs. Jones.
[Goes out and passes MARLOW in the doorway. MARLOW is young and
quiet; he is cleanshaven, and his hair is brushed high from his
forehead in a coxcomb. Incidentally a butler, he is first a man.
He looks at MRS. JONES, and smiles a private smile.] 
MARLOW.Some tackled sharply and artistically, their feet leaving the ground
and taking the runner off his legs as though a scythe had passed under
him; but most of the tackling was crude, and often the runner slipped
through the arms and left the tackler prone on the ground to rise amid
the jeers of his fellows.

"Your turn, Stover," said the voice of the captain. "Wait a minute."
He looked over the squad and selected McCarty, saying: "Here, Tough,
come out here. Here's a fellow thinks all you need in this game is
nerve. Let's see what he's got."

Dink stood out, neither hearing nor caring for the laugh that went up.
He glanced up fifteen yards away where Tough McCarty stood waiting the
starting signal. He was not afraid, he was angry clean through, ready
to tackle the whole squad, one after another.

"Shall I take it sideways?" said Tough, expecting to be tackled from
the side as the others had been.

"No, head on, Tough. Let's see if you can get by him," said Cockrell.
"Let her go!"

McCarty, with the memory of past defiances, went toward Stover head
down, full tilt. Ordinarily in practice the runner slackens just
before the tackle; but McCarty, expecting slight resistance from a
novice, arrived at top speed.

Stover, instead of hesitating or waiting the coming, hurled himself
recklessly forward. Shoulder met knee with a crash that threw them
both. Stunned by the savage impact, Stover, spilled head over heels,
dizzy and furious, instinctively flung himself from his knees upon the
prostrate body of McCarty, as he had followed the elusive ball a
moment before.

"That's instinct, football instinct," said Mr. Ware to Cockrell, as
they approached the spot where Dink, still dazed, was clutching Tough
McCarty's knees in a convulsive hug.

"Let go! Let go there, you little varmint," said Tough McCarty,
considerably shaken. "How long are you going to hold me here?"

Some one touched Dink on the shoulder; he looked up through the blur
to see the captain's face.

"All right, Dink, get up."

But Stover released his grip not a whit.

"Here, you young bulldog," said Cockrell with a laugh, "it's all over.
Let go. Stand up. Sort of groggy, eh?"

Dink, pulled to his feet, felt the earth slip under him in drunken
reelings.

"I missed him," he said brokenly, leaning against Mr. Ware.

"H'm, not so bad," said the coach gruffly.

"How do you feel?" said Garry Cockrell, looking at him with his quiet
smile.

Dink saw the smile and misjudged it.

"Give me another chance," he cried furiously. "I'll get him."

"What! Ready for another tackle?" said the captain, looking at him
intently.

"Please, sir."

"Well, get your head clear first."

"Let me take it now, sir!"

"All right."

"Hit him harder than he hits you, and grip with your hands," said the
voice of Mr. Ware in his ear.

Dink stood out again. The earth was gradually returning to a state of
equilibrium, but his head was buzzing and his legs were decidedly
rebels to his will.

The captain, seeing this, to give him time, spoke to McCarty with just
a shade of malice.

"Well, Tough, do you want to take it again?"

"Do I?" said McCarty sarcastically. "Oh, yes, most enjoyable! Don't
let me interfere with your pleasure. Why don't you try it yourself?"

"Would you rather watch?"

"Oh, no, of course not. This is a real pleasure, thank you. The little
devil would dent a freight train."

"All ready, Stover?" said Cockrell.

The players stood in two lines, four yards apart. No one laughed. They
looked at Stover, thrilling a little with his communicated
recklessness, grunting forth their approval.

"Good nerve."

"The real stuff."

"Pure grit."

"Little devil."

Stover's face had gone white, the eyes had dwindled and set intensely,
the line of the mouth was drawn taut, while on his forehead the wind
lifted the matted hair like a banner. In the middle of the lane,
crowding forward, his arms out, ready to spring, his glance fixed on
McCarty, he waited like a champion guarding the pass.

"All right, Stover?"

Some one near him repeated the question.

"Come on!" he answered.

McCarty's one hundred and seventy pounds came rushing down. But this
time the instinct was strong. He slacked a bit at the end as Stover,
not waiting his coming, plunged in to meet him. Down they went again,
but this time it was the force of Stover's impact that threw them.

When Cockrell came up, Dink, altogether groggy, was entwined around
one leg of McCarty with a gaunt grin of possession.

They hauled him up, patted him on the back and walked him up and down
in the cool breeze. Suddenly, after several minutes, the mist rose. 
Washington Hawkins' new life was an unceasing delight to him. Senator
Dilworthy lived sumptuously, and Washington's quarters were charming
--gas; running water, hot and cold; bath-room, coal-fires, rich
carpets, beautiful pictures on the walls; books on religion,
temperance, public charities and financial schemes; trim colored
servants, dainty food --everything a body could wish for.

And as for stationery, there was no end to it; the government
furnished it; postage stamps were not needed --the Senator's frank
could convey a horse through the mails, if necessary.

And then he saw such dazzling company.

Renowned generals and admirals who had seemed but colossal myths
when he was in the far west, went in and out before him or sat at
the Senator's table, solidified into palpable flesh and blood;
famous statesmen crossed his path daily; that once rare and
awe-inspiring being, a Congressman, was become a common spectacle--a
spectacle so common, indeed, that he could contemplate it without
excitement, even without embarrassment; foreign ministers were
visible to the naked eye at happy intervals; he had looked upon the
President himself, and lived.

And more; this world of enchantment teemed with speculation--the
whole atmosphere was thick with hand that indeed was Washington
Hawkins' native air; none other refreshed his lungs so gratefully.

He had found paradise at last.

The more he saw of his chief the Senator, the more he honored him,
and the more conspicuously the moral grandeur of his character
appeared to stand out.

To possess the friendship and the kindly interest of such a man,
Washington said in a letter to Louise, was a happy fortune for a
young man whose career had been so impeded and so clouded as his.

The weeks drifted by;--Harry Brierly flirted, danced, added lustre to
the brilliant Senatorial receptions, and diligently "buzzed" and
"button-holed" Congressmen in the interest of the Columbus River
scheme; meantime Senator Dilworthy labored hard in the same
interest--and in others of equal national importance.

Harry wrote frequently to Sellers, and always encouragingly; and
from these letters it was easy to see that Harry was a pet with all
Washington, and was likely to carry the thing through; that the
assistance rendered him by "old Dilworthy" was pretty fair--pretty
fair; "and every little helps, you know," said Harry.

Washington wrote Sellers officially, now and then.

In one of his letters it appeared that whereas no member of the House
committee favored the scheme at first, there was now needed but one
more vote to compass a majority report. Closing sentence:

"Providence seems to further our efforts."

(Signed,) "ABNER DILWORTHY, U.

S. S., per WASHINGTON HAWKINS, P. S."

At the end of a week, Washington was able to send the happy
news, officially, as usual,--that the needed vote had been added and
the bill favorably reported from the Committee.

"Oh, very well," he said carelessly. "Thought you preferred to run
this show yourselves."

Picking up a poster, he selected with malicious intent the most
unsuitable spot in the room and started to climb the bureau,
remarking:

"This is about it, I should say."

The artistic souls of Dink and Dennis protested.

"Murder, no!"

"You chump!"

"Too big for it."

"Well, if you know so much," said the Tennessee Shad, halting before
the last upward struggle and holding out the poster, "where would you
put it?"

Stover and Dennis indignantly bore the poster away and with much
effort and straining tacked it in an appropriate place.

"Why, that is better," said the Tennessee Shad admiringly, regaining
his chair, not too openly. "Much better. Looks fine! Great! Say, I've
got an idea. Stick the ballet girl under it."

"What?"

"You're crazy!"

"Well, where would you put it?"

"Here, you chump."

"Why, that's not half bad, either," said the Tennessee Shad, once more
back among the cushions. "A trifle more to the left, down--now
up--good--make fast. First rate; guess you have the best eye. Now
where are you going to put this?"

By this process of self-debasement and generous exterior admiration
the Tennessee Shad successfully perceived the heavy hanging and
arranging brought to a satisfactory conclusion.

The vital touches were given, the transom was hung with heavy black
canvas; a curtain of the same was so arranged as to permit its being
drawn over the telltale cracks of the door. Dennis and Stover, sent to
reconnoiter from the hall, waited while the Tennessee Shad passed a
lighted candle back and forth over the sealed entrance. One traitor
crack was discovered and promptly obliterated.

"Now we're secure," said the Tennessee Shad. "Cave of Silence and all
that sort of thing. The Old Roman would have to smell us to get on."

"How about the windows?" said Dink.

"They're a cinch," said the Shad. "When you get the shade down and the
shutters closed a blanket will fix them snug as a bug in a rug. Now,
at nine o'clock we can go to bed without suffering from drafts. Ha,
ha--joke."

"Burn the midnight oil, etceteray--etcetera."

"To-morrow," said the Tennessee Shad, "Volts Mashon is going to
install a safety light for us."

"Elucidate," said Dink.

"A safety light is a light that has a connection with the door. Shut
door, light; open door, where is Moses? Midnight reading made a
pleasure."

"Marvelous!"

"Oh, I've heard of that before," said Finnegan.

The Tennessee Shad, meanwhile, had been busy stretching a string from
his bed to the hot-air register and from a stick at the foot of his
bed to a pulley at the top.

Stover and Finnegan waited respectfully until the Shad, having
finished his operations, deigned to give a practical exhibition.

"This thing is simple," said he, stretching out on his bed and pulling
a string at one side. "Opens hot-air register. No applause necessary.
But this is a little, comforting idea of my own. Protection from
sudden change of temperature without bodily exposure." Extending his
hand he pulled the other rope, which, running through the pulley over
his head, brought the counterpane quickly over him. "How's that? No
sitting up, reaching down, fumbling about in zero weather."

How far is it from your office to the bank?

FALDER.

Not more than fifty yards, sir.

FROME.

From the time Davis went out to lunch to the time you cashed the
cheque, how long do you say it must have been?

FALDER. It couldn't have been four minutes, sir, because I ran
all the way.

FROME.

During those four minutes you say you remember nothing?

FALDER.

No, sir; only that I ran.

FROME. Not even adding the 'ty' and the nought?'
FALDER. No, sir.

I don't really.

FROME sits down, and CLEAVER rises.

CLEAVER. But you remember running, do you?

FALDER. I was all out of breath when I got to the bank.

CLEAVER. And you don't remember altering the cheque?

FALDER. [Faintly] No, sir.

CLEAVER. Divested of the romantic glamour which my friend is
casting over the case, is this anything but an ordinary forgery?
Come.

FALDER. I was half frantic all that morning, sir.

CLEAVER.

Now, now! You don't deny that the 'ty' and the nought were so like
the rest of the handwriting as to thoroughly deceive the cashier?

FALDER. It was an accident.

CLEAVER. [Cheerfully] Queer sort of accident, wasn't it?

On which day did you alter the counterfoil?

FALDER. [Hanging his head] On the Wednesday morning.

CLEAVER. Was that an accident too?

FALDER. [Faintly] No.

CLEAVER. To do that you had to watch your opportunity, I suppose?

FALDER.

[Almost inaudibly] Yes.

CLEAVER.

You don't suggest that you were suffering under great excitement
when you did that?

FALDER. I was haunted.

CLEAVER. With the fear of being found out?

FALDER.

[Very low] Yes.

THE JUDGE.

Didn't it occur to you that the only thing for you to do was to
confess to your employers, and restore the money?

FALDER. I was afraid. [There is silence]

CLEAVER. You desired, too, no doubt, to complete your design of
taking this woman away?

FALDER. When I found I'd done a thing like that, to do it for nothing
seemed so dreadful.

I might just as well have chucked myself into the river.

CLEAVER. You knew that the clerk Davis was about to leave England
--didn't it occur to you when you altered this cheque that suspicion
would fall on him?

FALDER. It was all done in a moment.

I thought of it afterwards.

CLEAVER.

And that didn't lead you to avow what you'd done?

FALDER.

[Sullenly] I meant to write when I got out there--I would have
repaid the money.

THE JUDGE.

But in the meantime your innocent fellow clerk might have been
prosecuted.

FALDER. I knew he was a long way off, your lordship. I thought there'd
be time. I didn't think they'd find it out so soon.

FROME. I might remind your lordship that as Mr.

Walter How had the cheque-book in his pocket till after Davis had
sailed, if the discovery had been made only one day later Falder
himself would have left, and suspicion would have attached to him,
and not to Davis, from the beginning.

THE JUDGE. The question is whether the prisoner knew that suspicion
would light on himself, and not on Davis.

[To FALDER sharply] Did you know that Mr.

Walter How had the cheque-book till after Davis had sailed?

FALDER.

I--I--thought--he----

THE JUDGE. Now speak the truth-yes or no!

FALDER. [Very low] No, my lord. I had no means of knowing.

THE JUDGE.

That disposes of your point, Mr. Frome.

[FROME bows to the JUDGE]

CLEAVER.

Has any aberration of this nature ever attacked you before?

FALDER. [Faintly] No, sir.

CLEAVER. You had recovered sufficiently to go back to your work that
afternoon?

FALDER.

Yes, I had to take the money back.

CLEAVER. You mean the nine pounds.

Your wits were sufficiently keen for you to remember that? And you
still persist in saying you don't remember altering this cheque.

[He sits down]
FALDER.

If I hadn't been mad I should never have had the courage.

FROME.

[Rising] Did you have your lunch before going back?

FALDER. I never ate a thing all day; and at night I couldn't
sleep.

FROME. Now, as to the four minutes that elapsed between Davis's going
out and your cashing the cheque: do you say that you recollect nothing
during those four minutes?

FALDER.

[After a moment] I remember thinking of Mr.

Cokeson's face.

FROME. Of Mr. Cokeson's face! Had that any connection with what you were
doing?

FALDER. No, Sir.

FROME. Was that in the office, before you ran out?

FALDER. Yes, and while I was running.

FROME.

And that lasted till the cashier said: "Will you have gold or notes?"

FALDER.

Yes, and then I seemed to come to myself--and it was too late.

FROME. Thank you. That closes the evidence for the defence, my lord.

The JUDGE nods, and FALDER goes back to his seat in the dock.

FROME.

[Gathering up notes] If it please your lordship--Gentlemen of
the Jury,--My friend in cross-examination has shown a disposition
to sneer at the defence which has been set up in this case, and I
am free to admit that nothing I can say will move you, if the
evidence has not already convinced you that the prisoner committed
this act in a moment when to all practical intents and purposes he
was not responsible for his actions; a moment of such mental and
moral vacuity, arising from the violent emotional agitation under
which he had been suffering, as to amount to temporary madness.

My friend has alluded to the "romantic glamour" with which I have
sought to invest this case.

Gentlemen, I have done nothing of the kind.

I have merely shown you the background of "life"--that palpitating
life which, believe me--whatever my friend may say--always lies
behind the commission of a crime.

Now gentlemen, we live in a highly, civilized age, and the sight
of brutal violence disturbs us in a very strange way, even when we
have no personal interest in the matter.

But when we see it inflicted on a woman whom we love--what then?

Just think of what your own feelings would have been, each of you,
at the prisoner's age; and then look at him.

Well!

he is hardly the comfortable, shall we say bucolic, person likely
to contemplate with equanimity marks of gross violence on a woman
to whom he was devotedly attached.

Yes, gentlemen, look at him! He has not a strong face; but neither has
he a vicious face.

He is just the sort of man who would easily become the prey of his
emotions.

You have heard the description of his eyes. My friend may laugh at
the word "funny"--I think it better describes the peculiar uncanny
look of those who are strained to breaking-point than any other
word which could have been used.

I don't pretend, mind you, that his mental irresponsibility--was
more than a flash of darkness, in which all sense of proportion
became lost; but to contend, that, just as a man who destroys himself
at such a moment may be, and often is, absolved from the stigma
attaching to the crime of self-murder, so he may, and frequently
does, commit other crimes while in this irresponsible condition,
and that he may as justly be acquitted of criminal intent and treated
as a patient.

I admit that this is a plea which might well be abused.

It is a matter for discretion.

But here you have a case in which there is every reason to give the
benefit of the doubt.

You heard me ask the prisoner what he thought of during those four
fatal minutes. What was his answer? "I thought of Mr.

Cokeson's face!"

Gentlemen, no man could invent an answer like that; it is absolutely
stamped with truth.

You have seen the great affection [legitimate or not] existing
between him and this woman, who came here to give evidence for him
at the risk of her life.

It is impossible for you to doubt his distress on the morning when
he committed this act.

We well know what terrible havoc such distress can make in weak
and highly nervous people.

It was all the work of a moment. The rest has followed, as death follows
a stab to the heart, or water drops if you hold up a jug to empty
it.

Believe me, gentlemen, there is nothing more tragic in life than
the utter impossibility of changing what you have done.

Once this cheque was altered and presented, the work of four minutes--four
mad minutes --the rest has been silence.

But in those four minutes the boy before you has slipped through a
door, hardly opened, into that great cage which never again quite
lets a man go--the cage of the Law. His further acts, his failure to
confess, the alteration of the counterfoil, his preparations for
flight, are all evidence--not of deliberate and guilty intention
when he committed the prime act from which these subsequent acts
arose; no--they are merely evidence of the weak character which is
clearly enough his misfortune.

But is a man to be lost because he is bred and born with a weak
character?

  Gentlemen, men like the prisoner are destroyed
  daily under our law for want of that
  human insight which sees them as they are, patients, and not
criminals.

  If the prisoner be found guilty, and treated as though he were a
criminal type, he will, as all experience shows, in all probability
become one.

  I beg you not to return a verdict
  that may thrust him back into
  prison and brand him for ever.
  Gentlemen, Justice is a machine that, when some one has once given
it the starting push, rolls on of itself.

Is this young man to be ground to pieces under this machine for an
act which at the worst was one of weakness? Is he to become a
member of the luckless crews that man those dark, ill-starred ships
called prisons?

Is that to be his voyage-from which so few return?

Or is he to have another chance, to be still looked on as one who
has gone a little astray, but who will come back?

I urge you, gentlemen, do not ruin this young man! For, as a result
of those four minutes, ruin, utter and irretrievable, stares him in
the face.

He can be saved now.

Imprison him as a criminal, and I affirm to you that he will be lost.

He has neither the face nor the manner of one who can survive that
terrible ordeal.
Weigh in the scales his criminality and the suffering he has
undergone. The latter is ten times heavier already. He has lain in
prison under this charge for more than two months.

Is he likely ever to forget that? Imagine the anguish of his mind
during that time.

He has had his punishment, gentlemen, you may depend. The rolling
of the chariot-wheels of Justice over this boy began when
it was decided to prosecute him. We are now already at the second
stage.

If you permit it to go on to the third I would not give--that for
him.

He holds up finger and thumb in the form of a circle, drops
his hand, and sits dozen.

The jury stir, and consult each other's faces; then they turn towards
the counsel for the Crown, who rises, and, fixing his eyes on a
spot that seems to give him satisfaction, slides them every now and
then towards the jury.

CLEAVER. May it please your lordship--[Rising on his toes] Gentlemen
of the Jury,--The facts in this case are not disputed, and the
defence, if my friend will allow me to say so, is so thin that I
don't propose to waste the time of the Court by taking you over the
evidence.

The plea is one of temporary insanity. Well, gentlemen, I daresay
it is clearer to me than it is to you why this rather--what shall
we call it?--bizarre defence has been set up. The alternative would
have been to plead guilty. Now, gentlemen, if the prisoner had pleaded
guilty my friend would have had to rely on a simple appeal to his
lordship. Instead of that, he has gone into the byways and hedges and
found this--er--peculiar plea, which has enabled him to show you the
proverbial woman, to put her in the box--to give, in fact, a
romantic glow to this affair.

I compliment my friend; I think it highly ingenious of him.

By these means, he has--to a certain extent--got round the Law. He has
brought the whole story of motive and stress out in court,
at first hand, in a way that he would not otherwise have been
able to do. But when you have once grasped that fact, gentlemen,
you have grasped everything. [With good-humoured contempt] For look
at this plea of insanity; we can't put it lower than that. You have
heard the woman. She has every reason to favour the prisoner, but what
did she say? She said that the prisoner was not insane when she left
him in the morning.

If he were going out of his mind through distress, that was obviously
the moment when insanity would have shown itself.

You have heard the managing clerk, another witness for the defence.
With some difficulty I elicited from him the admission that the
prisoner, though jumpy [a word that he seemed to think you
would understand, gentlemen, and I'm sure I hope you do], was not
mad when the cheque was handed to Davis. I agree with my
friend that it's unfortunate that we have not got Davis here, but the
prisoner has told you the words with which Davis in turn handed him
the cheque; he obviously, therefore, was not mad when he received
it, or he would not have remembered those words.

The cashier has told you that he was certainly in his senses when
he cashed it.

We have therefore the plea that a man who is sane at ten minutes
past one, and sane at fifteen minutes past, may, for the purposes
of avoiding the consequences of a crime, call himself insane between
those points of time.

Really, gentlemen, this is so peculiar a proposition that I am not
disposed to weary you with further argument. You will form your own
opinion of its value. My friend has adopted this way of saying a great
deal to you--and very eloquently--on the score of youth, temptation,
and the like.

I might point out, however, that the offence with which the prisoner
is charged is one of the most serious known to our law; and there are
certain features in this case, such as the suspicion which he allowed
to rest on his innocent fellow-clerk, and his relations with this married
woman, which will render it difficult for you to attach too much
importance to such pleading. I ask you, in short, gentlemen, for that
verdict of guilty which, in the circumstances, I regard you as,
unfortunately, bound to record.

Letting his eyes travel from the JUDGE and the jury to FROME,
he sits down.

THE JUDGE.

[Bending a little towards the jury, and speaking in a business-like
voice] Gentlemen, you have heard the evidence, and the comments on
it.

My only business is to make clear to you the issues you have to try.

The facts are admitted, so far as the alteration of this cheque and
counterfoil by the prisoner. The defence set up is that he was not
in a responsible condition when he committed the crime.

Well, you have heard the prisoner's story, and the evidence of the
other witnesses--so far as it bears on the point of insanity.
If you think that what you have heard establishes the fact that the
prisoner was insane at the time of the forgery, you will find him
guilty, but insane. If, on the other hand, you conclude from what you
have seen and heard that the prisoner was sane--and nothing short of
insanity will count--you will find him guilty.

In reviewing the testimony as to his mental condition you must bear
in mind very carefully the evidence as to his demeanour and conduct
both before and after the act of forgery--the evidence of the
prisoner himself, of the woman, of the witness--er--COKESON,
and--er--of the cashier.

And in regard to that I especially direct your attention to the
prisoner's admission that the idea of adding the 'ty' and the nought
did come into his mind at the moment when the cheque was handed to
him; and also to the alteration of the counterfoil, and to his
subsequent conduct generally.

The bearing of all this on the question of premeditation [and
premeditation will imply sanity] is very obvious.

You must not allow any considerations of age or temptation to weigh
with you in the finding of your verdict.

Before you can come to a verdict of guilty but insane you must be
well and thoroughly convinced that the condition of his mind was
such as would have qualified him at the moment for a lunatic asylum.
[He pauses, then, seeing that the jury are doubtful whether to
retire or no, adds:] You may retire, gentlemen, if you wish to do
so.

The jury retire by a door behind the JUDGE. The JUDGE bends over his
notes. FALDER, leaning from the dock, speaks excitedly to his solicitor,
pointing dawn at RUTH.

The solicitor in turn speaks to FROME.

FROME. [Rising] My lord. The prisoner is very anxious that I should ask
you if your lordship would kindly request the reporters not to disclose
the name of the woman witness in the Press reports of these
proceedings.

Your lordship will understand that the consequences might be extremely
serious to her.

THE JUDGE. [Pointedly--with the suspicion of a smile] well, Mr.
Frome, you deliberately took this course which involved bringing her
here.

FROME. [With an ironic bow] If your lordship thinks I could
have brought out the full facts in any other way?

THE JUDGE. H'm! Well.

FROME. There is very real danger to her, your lordship.

THE JUDGE. You see, I have to take your word for all that.

FROME. If your lordship would be so kind. I can assure your
lordship that I am not exaggerating.

THE JUDGE. It goes very much against the grain with me that the
name of a witness should ever be suppressed.

[With a glance at FALDER, who is gripping and clasping his hands before
him, and then at RUTH, who is sitting perfectly rigid with her
eyes fixed on FALDER] I'll consider your application.

It must depend. I have to remember that she may have come here to
commit perjury on the prisoner's behalf.

FROME. Your lordship, I really----
THE JUDGE. Yes, yes--I don't suggest anything of the sort, Mr.
Frome. Leave it at that for the moment.

As he finishes speaking, the jury return, and file back into the
box.

CLERK of ASSIZE. Gentlemen, are you agreed on your verdict?

FOREMAN. We are.

CLERK of ASSIZE. Is it Guilty, or Guilty but insane?

FOREMAN. Guilty.

The JUDGE nods; then, gathering up his notes, sits looking at FALDER,
who stands motionless.

FROME. [Rising] If your lordship would allow me to address you in
mitigation of sentence.

I don't know if your lordship thinks I can add anything to what I
have said to the jury on the score of the prisoner's youth, and the
great stress under which he acted.

THE JUDGE. I don't think you can, Mr. Frome.

FROME. If your lordship says so--I do most earnestly beg your lordship
to give the utmost weight to my plea. [He sits down.]
THE JUDGE.

[To the CLERK] Call upon him.

THE CLERK. Prisoner at the bar, you stand convicted of felony. Have you
anything to say for yourself, why the Court should not give you
judgment according to law? [FALDER shakes his head]
THE JUDGE.

William Falder, you have been given fair trial and found guilty, in
my opinion rightly found guilty, of forgery. [He pauses; then,
consulting his notes, goes on] The defence was set up that you
were not responsible for your actions at the moment of committing
this crime.

There is no, doubt, I think, that this was a device to bring out
at first hand the nature of the temptation to which you succumbed.
For throughout the trial your counsel was in reality making an appeal
for mercy. The setting up of this defence of course enabled him to put
in some evidence that might weigh in that direction.

Whether he was well advised to so is another matter. He claimed that you
should be treated rather as a patient than as a criminal. And this
plea of his, which in the end amounted to a passionate appeal, he
based in effect on an indictment of the march of Justice, which he
practically accused of confirming and completing the process of
criminality.

Now, in considering how far I should allow weight to his appeal; I have
a number of factors to take into account. I have to consider on the one
hand the grave nature of your offence, the deliberate way in which
you subsequently altered the counterfoil, the danger you caused to
an innocent man--and that, to my mind, is a very grave point--and
finally I have to consider the necessity of deterring others from
following your example.

On the other hand, I have to bear in mind that you are young, that you
have hitherto borne a good character, that you were, if I am to believe
your evidence and that of your witnesses, in a state of some
emotional excitement when you committed this crime. I have every wish,
consistently with my duty--not only to you, but to the community--to
treat you with leniency.

And this brings me to what are the determining factors in my mind
in my consideration of your case. You are a clerk in a lawyer's
office--that is a very serious element in this case; there can be
no possible excuse made for you on the ground that you were not
fully conversant with the nature of the crime you were committing,
and the penalties that attach to it.

It is said, however, that you were carried away by your emotions. The
story has been told here to-day of your relations with
this--er--Mrs.
Honeywill; on that story both the defence and the plea for mercy were
in effect based. Now what is that story? It is that you, a young man,
and she, a young woman, unhappily married, had formed an attachment,
which you both say--with what truth I am unable to gauge --had not
yet resulted in immoral relations, but which you both admit was
about to result in such relationship.

Your counsel has made an attempt to palliate this, on the ground
that the woman is in what he describes, I think, as "a hopeless
position."

As to that I can express no opinion. She is a married woman, and the
fact is patent that you committed this crime with the view of
furthering an immoral design.

Now, however I might wish, I am not able to justify to my conscience
a plea for mercy which has a basis inimical to morality.

It is vitiated 'ab initio', and would, if successful, free you for
the completion of this immoral project. Your counsel has made
an attempt to trace your offence back to what he seems to suggest
is a defect in the marriage law; he has made an attempt also to
show that to punish you with further imprisonment would be unjust.

I do not follow him in these flights. The Law is what it is--a majestic
edifice, sheltering all of us, each stone of which rests on another.

At the conclusion Dink waited
aggressively, watching The Roman, who continued to stare at his
sketch.

"One question, John," he said, without raising his eyes. "Was the
Kennedy the only house thus favored?"

"No, sir. Macnooder installed them in the Dickinson and the Woodhull."

"Ah!" As though finding comfort in this last statement, The Roman
raised his head and said slowly: "Dear me! I see, I see now. Quite a
relief. It is evident from your recital, John, that at least there was
no concerted effort to destroy the property of the school. I withdraw
the term outrage, in so far as it may suggest outrages of pillage or
anarchy. As to the continued usefulness of what you so felicitously
term the Sleep Prolonger, that will have to be a subject of
consultation with the Doctor, but--but, as your friend, I should
advise you, for the present, not to risk any further capital in the
venture. Don't do it, John, don't do it."

"Tyrant!" said Stover to himself. Aloud he asked: "Is that all, sir?"

"One moment--one moment, John. Are you contemplating any further
inventions?"

"Why, no, sir."

"On your honor, John?"

"Why, yes, sir."

"Good--very good. You may go now."

At noon, by virtue of an extraordinary order from headquarters, all
alarm clocks were confiscated and ordered to be surrendered.

"It's all the Old Roman," said Stover doggedly. "He knew it was my
invention. He's got it in for me, I tell you."

"Anyhow," said Finnegan, "since Doc planted a few Prolongers in the
Dickinson and the Woodhull we ought to be able to stack up a few nice,
round plunks."

The Tennessee Shad looked very thoughtful.

At this moment the Gutter Pup and P. Lentz, representing the
profit-sharing stockholders, called to know when the surplus was to be
divided.

"Macnooder is now at work on the books," said Dink. "We expect him
over at any time."

But when at eight o'clock that evening no word had been received from
the president, the Third Triumvirate held a meeting and sent the
Tennessee Shad over to the Dickinson, with orders to return only with
the bullion, for which purpose he was equipped with a small, black
satchel.

Just before lights the Tennessee Shad's dragging step was heard
returning.

"I don't like the sound," said Dink, listening.

"He always shuffles his feet," said Dennis, clinging to hope.

The door opened and the Tennessee Shad, carrying the black satchel,
solemnly entered. Dink flung himself on the bag, wrenched it open and
let it drop, exclaiming:

"Nothing!"

"Nothing?" said Dennis, rising.

"Nothing," said the Tennessee Shad, sitting down.

"But the profits?"

"The profits," said the Tennessee Shad, pointing sarcastically to the
bag, "are in there."

"Do you mean to say----" began Dink and stopped.

"I mean to say that the Third Triumvirate Manufacturing Company is
insolvent, bankrupt, busted, up the spout."

"But then, who's got the coin?"

"Doc Macnooder," said the Tennessee Shad, "and it's all legal."

"Legal?"

"All legal. It's this way. Our profits depended upon the price we paid
for alarm clocks. See? Well, when Doc Macnooder, as president of the
Third Triumvirate Manufacturing Company looked around for clocks, he
found that Doc Macnooder, as president of the Eureka Purchasing
Company, had cornered the market and could dictate the price."

"So that?" said Stover indignantly.

"So that each clock was charged up to us at a rate ranging from one
dollar and forty cents to one dollar and fifty."

"By what right?" said Dennis.

"It's what is called a subsidiary company," said the Tennessee Shad.
"It's quite popular nowadays."

"But where's the stock we subscribed?" said Dennis, thinking of his
one dollar and fifty cents. "We get that back?"

"No."

"What!" said the two in unison.

"It's this way. Owing to executive interference, the Third Triumvirate
Manufacturing Company is liable to the Eureka Purchasing Company for
ten alarm clocks, which it has ordered and can't use."

"But then, out of the whole, blooming mess," said Dennis, quite
overcome, "where do I stand?"

The Tennessee Shad unfolded a paper and read:

"You owe the Eureka, as your share of the assessment, two dollars and
forty cents."

"Owe!" said Finnegan with a scream.

"Just let him come," said Dink, doubling up his fists. "Let him come
and assess us!"

The three sat in long silence. Finally the Tennessee Shad spoke:

"I am afraid Doc was sore because we tried to freeze him out at first.
It was a mistake."

No one noticed this.

"Great Willie Keeler!" said Dennis suddenly. "If this thing had been a
success we'd have been ruined!"

"But what right," said Dink, unwilling to give up the fight, "had he
to pay the Eureka such prices. Who authorized him?"

"A vote of fifty-one per cent. of the stock," said the Tennessee Shad.

"But he never said anything to us--the forty-nine per cent. Has the
minority no rights?"

"The minority," said the Tennessee Shad, speaking beyond his horizon,
"the minority has only one inalienable right, the right to indorse."

"I'll get even with him," said Dink, after a blank period.

"I suppose," said Dennis de Brian de Boru Finnegan, "that's what's
called Finance."

And the Tennessee Shad nodded assent:

"Higher Finance, Dennis."


XV


During the busy October week Dink found little time to vent the
brewing mischief within him. The afternoons were given over to the
dogged pursuit of the elusive pigskin. In the evenings he resolutely
turned his back on all midnight spreads or expeditions to the
protecting shadows of the woods to smoke the abhorrent cigarette, for
the joy of the risk run. At nine o'clock promptly each night he dove
into bed, wrapped the covers about his head and, leaving the Tennessee
Shad deep in the pages of Dumas, went soaring off into lands where
goals are kicked from the center of the field, winning touchdowns
scored in the last minute of play and bonfires lighted for his special
honor. He was only end on the scrub, eagerly learning the game; but
with the intensity of his nature that territory, which each afternoon
he lined up to defend, was his in sacred trust; and he resolved that
the trust of his captain should not be misplaced if it lay in his
power to prevent it.

However, the busy mind was not entirely inactive. With the memory of
his financial disappointment came the resolve to square himself with
The Roman and turn the tables on Doc Macnooder.

The opportunity to do the first came in an unexpected way.

One evening P. Lentz came in upon them in great agitation.

"Why, King," said Dennis, who was lolling around, "you're excited,
very, very much excited!"

"Shut up!" said the King of the Kennedy, who was in anything but a
good humor. "It's the deuce to pay. I've had a first warning."

At this every one looked grave, and Dink, the loyalist, said:

"Oh, King, how could you!"

For another warning meant banishment from the football team and all
the devastation that implied.

"That would just about end us," said Dennis. "Might as well save
Andover the traveling expenses."

"I know, I know!" said P. Lentz furiously. "I've had it all said to
me. Beautifully expressed, too. Question is, what's to be done? It's
all the fault of old Baranson. He's been down on me ever since we
licked the Woodhull."

"We must think of something," said the Tennessee Shad.

"How about a doctor's certificate?"

"Rats!"

"We might get up a demonstration against Baranson."

"Lot's of good that'll do me!"

Various suggestions were offered and rejected.

"Well, King," said the Tennessee Shad at last, "I don't see there's
anything to it but you'll have to buckle down and study."

"Study?" said P. Lentz. "Is that the best you can produce?"

"It seems the simplest."

"I came here for consolation," said P. Lentz, who thereupon departed
angrily.

"Still, it'll come to that," said the Tennessee Shad.

"P. Lentz study?" said Finnegan contemptuously. "Can a duck whistle?"

"Then we'll have to tutor him."

"What says Dink?"

"Don't bother me, I'm thinking."

"Gracious, may I watch you?"

"Shad," said Stover, ignoring Dennis, "did it ever occur to you how
unscientific this whole game is?"

"What game?"

"This chasing the Latin root, wrestling with the unknown equation, and
all that sort of thing."

"Proceed."

"Why are we smashed up? Because we are discouraged all fighting alone,
unscientifically. Does the light dawn?"

"Very slowly," said the Tennessee Shad. "Keep dawning."

"I am thinking of organizing," said Stover impressively, "The Kennedy
Co-operative Educational Institute."

"Aha!" said the Tennessee Shad. "_Video, je vois_, I see. All
third-formers in the house meet, divide up the lesson and then
fraternize."

"Where do I come in?" said Finnegan, who was two forms below.

"A very excellent idea," said the Tennessee Shad in final approval.

"I've a better one now," said Stover.

"Why, Dink!"

"It begins by chucking the Co-operative idea."

"How so?"

"There's no money in that," said Stover. "We must give the courses
ourselves, see?"

"Give?" said the Tennessee Shad. "We two shining marks!"

"No," said Stover contemptuously. "We hire the lecturers and collect
from the lectured."

"Why, Shad," said Finnegan, in wide-eyed admiration, "our boy is
growing up!"

"He is, he certainly is. I love the idea!"

"Why, I think it's pretty good myself," said Dink.

"It has only one error--the lecturers."

"Why, that's the finest of the fine," said Dink indignantly. "You see
what I do. Here's Beekstein and Gumbo Binks been laying around as
waste material and the whole house kicking because we've been stuck
with two midnight-oilers. Now what do I do? I utilize them. I make
them a credit to the house, useful citizens."

"True, most true," said the Tennessee Shad. "But why pay? Never pay
any one anything."

Stover acknowledged the superior financial mind, while Finnegan
remained silent, his greatest tribute.

"I suppose we might lasso them," said Stover, "or bring them up in
chains."

"That's only amateurish and besides reprehensible," said the Tennessee
Shad. "No, the highest principle in finance, the real cream de la
crème, is to make others pay you for what you want them to do."

Stover slowly assimilated this profound truth.

"We'll charge twenty-five cents a week to students and we'll make
Beekstein and Gumbo disgorge half a plunk each for letting us listen
to them."

"I am ready to be convinced," said Dink, who still doubted.

"I'll show you how it's done," said the Tennessee Shad, who, going to
the door, called out: "Oh, you Beekstein!"

"Profound, profound mind," said Dennis de Brian de Boru Finnegan. "Doc
Macnooder is better on detail, but when it comes to theory the
Tennessee Shad is the Willie Keeler boy every time!"

"I've another idea," said Stover, "a way to get even with The Roman,
too."

"What's that?"

"To signal the gerund and the gerundive."

"Magnificent and most popular!" said the Tennessee Shad. "We'll put
that in as a guaranty. Who'll signal?"

"I'll signal," said Stover, claiming the privilege. "It's my right!"

Beekstein, who might be completely described as a pair of black-rimmed
spectacles riding an aquiline nose, now shuffled in with his
dictionary under his arm, his fingers between the leaves of a Cicero
to which he still clung.

"Mr. Hall," said the Tennessee Shad with a flourish, "take any chair
in the room."

Beekstein, alarmed by such generosity, sat down like a ramrod and cast
a roving, anxious glance under the beds and behind the screen.

"Beekstein," said the Tennessee Shad, to reassure him, "we have just
organized the Kennedy Educational Quick Lunch Institute. The purpose
is fraternal, patriotic and convivial. It will be most exclusive and
very secret." He explained the working scheme and then added
anxiously: "Now, Beekstein, you see the position of First Grand Hot
Tamale will be the real thing. He will be, so to speak, Valedictorian
of the Kennedy and certainly ought to be elected secretary of the
house next year. Now, Beekstein, what we got you here for is this.
What do you think of Gumbo for the position? Well, what?"

Beekstein, in his agitation, withdrew his finger from the Orations of
Cicero.

"What's the matter with me?" he said directly. "Gumbo is only a
second-rater."

"He's very strong in mathematics."

"That's the only thing he beats me on!"

"Yes, but, Beekstein, there is another thing--a delicate subject. I
don't know how to approach it. You see, we don't know how you're fixed
for the spondulix," said the Tennessee Shad, who knew perfectly well
the other's flourishing condition. "You see, this is not only
educational, but a very select body, quite a secret society,--with a
midnight spread now and then. Of course there are dues, you see. It
would cost you a half a week."

"Is that all?" said Beekstein, who had never belonged to a secret
society in his life. "Here's the first month down. Right here."

"I don't know how far we are committed to Gumbo," said the Tennessee
Shad, not disdaining to finger the two-dollar bill. "But I'll do
everything I can for you."

Gumbo Binks, being consulted as to the qualifications of Beekstein,
fell into the same trap. He was a monosyllabic, oldish little fellow,
whose cheeks had fallen down and disturbed the balance of his already
bald head. He had but one emotion and one enthusiasm, a professional
jealousy of Beekstein, who was several points ahead of him in the race
for first honors. Under these conditions the Tennessee Shad proceeded
victoriously. Having made sure of each, he next informed them that,
owing to a wide divergence of opinion, a choice seemed impossible.
Each should have two months' opportunity to lecture before the Quick
Lunchers before a vote would be taken.

Under these successful auspices the Institute met enthusiastically the
following day, both the lecturers and the lectured ignoring the
financial status of the others. It was found on careful compilation
that, by close and respectful attention to Professors Beekstein and
Gumbo, twenty minutes would suffice for the rendering of the Greek and
Latin test; while only ten minutes extra were needed to follow the
requirements of mathematics.

The clause in the constitution which pledged defiance to The Roman and
guaranteed protection on the gerund and gerundive was exceedingly
popular. The signals were agreed upon. Absolute rigidity on Stover's
part denounced the gerund, while a slight wriggling of his sensitive
ears betrayed the approach of the abhorrent gerundive.

In his resolve to destroy forever the peace of mind of The Roman, Dink
sat an extra period under Beekstein, stalking and marking down the
lair of these enemies of boykind.

On the following morning The Roman lost no time in calling up P.
Lentz, who, to his amazement, recited creditably.

"Dear me," said The Roman, quite astonished, "the day of miracles is
not over--most astounding! Bring your book to the desk, Lentz--hem!
Everything proper! Profuse apologies, Lentz, profuse ones! The
suspicion is the compliment. I'm quite upset, quite so. First time
such a thing has happened." He hesitated for a moment, debating
whether to allow him to retire with the honors, but his curiosity
proving strong he said: "And now, Lentz, third line, second
word--gerund or gerundive?"

"Gerundive, sir," said P. Lentz promptly, observing Stover's ears in
a state of revolution.

"Fortunate youth! Next line, third word, gerund or gerundive?"

"Gerund, sir."

"Still fortunate! Once more, make your bet, Lentz, red or black?" said
The Roman, smiling, believing Lentz was risking his fortunes on the
alternating system. "Once more. Sixth line, first word, gerund or
gerundive?"

"Gerund, sir."

"Is it possible--is it possible?" said The Roman. "Have I lived to see
it! Sit down, _Mr._ Lentz, sit down."

He sat silent a moment, his lips twitching, his eyebrows alternately
jumping, gazing from the text to P. Lentz and back.

Stover, in the front row, was radiant.

"Gee, that's a stiff one for him to swallow!" he said, chuckling
inwardly. "P. Lentz, of all muts!"

As luck would have it the next boy called up, not being from the
Kennedy, flunked and somewhat restored The Roman's equanimity.

"Now he feels better," thought Dink. "Wait till the next jolt comes,
though!"

"Lazelle," said The Roman.

The Gutter Pup rose, translated fluently and, with his eyes on Dink's
admonitory ears, grappled with the gerund and threw the gerundive.

"Mead," said The Roman, now thoroughly alert.

Lovely, with a show of insouciance, bagged three gerunds and one
gerundive.

The Roman thought a moment and, carefully selecting the experts, sent
Beekstein, Gumbo Binks, the Red Dog and Poler Fox to the blackboards.
Having thus removed the bird dogs, The Roman called up Fatty Harris.

Stover, struggling to maintain his seriousness, grudgingly admired the
professional manner with which The Roman attacked the mystery, the
more so as it showed the wisdom of his own planning; for, had the
signals been left with either Beekstein or Gumbo, the plot would have
been instantly exposed.

As it was, The Roman, to his delighted imagination, at each successful
answer seemed to rise under an electric application.

Stover went out radiant, to receive the delighted congratulations of
the Institute and the recognition of those who were not in the secret.

"We've got him going," he said, skipping over the campus arm in arm
with the Tennessee Shad. "He's nervous as a witch! It's broken him all
up. He won't sleep for a week."

"He'll spot it to-morrow," said the Tennessee Shad.

"I'll lay a bet on it."

The next day The Roman, at the beginning of the lesson, ordered all
the books to the desk and fruitlessly examined them. Macnooder, as
spokesman for the justly indignant class, at once expressed the pain
felt at this evidence of suspicion and demanded an explanation. This
highly strategic manoeuver, which would have tripped up a younger
master, received nothing but a grim smile from The Roman who waved
them to their seats and called up P. Lentz.

"Gerund or gerundive?" he began directly, at the same time rising and
scanning the front ranks.

"Why, gerund, sir," said P. Lentz instantly.

"What, again?" said The Roman, who then called upon Stover.

Dink arose, watched with some trepidation by the rest; for being in
the front row he could receive no signal.

"First paragraph, third word, gerund or gerundive, Stover?"

Dink took a long time, shifting a little as though trying to glance
from side to side, and finally named haltingly:

"Gerund, sir."

"Next line, first word, gerund or gerundive? Look in front of you,
Stover. Look at me."

Dink purposely called it wrong, likewise the next; thereby completing
the mystification of The Roman, who now concentrated his attention on
Macnooder and the Tennessee Shad, as being next in order of suspicion.
The day ended victoriously.

"He won't live out the week," announced Dink. "There are circles under
his eyes already."

"Better quit for a day or two," said the Tennessee Shad.

"Never!"

Now the advantage of Dink's method of signaling was in its absolute
naturalness. For the growing boy wiggles his ears as a pup tries his
teeth or a young goat hardens his horns. Moreover, as Dink held to his
plan of judicious flunking, The Roman's suspicions were completely
diverted. For three days more the lover of the gerund and the
gerundive sought to localize and detect the sources of information
without avail.

Finally on the sixth day The Roman arrived with a briskness that was
at once noted and analyzed. P. Lentz was called and translated.

"We will now take up our daily recreation," said The Roman, in a
gentle voice. "It has been a matter of pleasure to me--not unmixed
with a little surprise, incredulous surprise--to note the sudden
affection of certain members of this class for those elusive forms of
Latin grammar known as the gerund and the gerundive. I had despaired,
in my unbelief I had despaired, of ever satisfactorily impressing
their subtle distinctions on certain, shall we say athletic,
imaginations. It seems I was wrong. I had not enough faith. I am
sorry. It is evident that these Scylla and Charybdis of prosody have
no longer any terrors for you, Lentz. Am I right?"

"Yes, sir," said P. Lentz hesitatingly.

"So--so--no terrors? And now, Lentz, take up your book, take it up.
Direct your unfailing glance at the first paragraph, page sixty-two.
Is it there?"

"Yes, sir."

"Pick out the first gerund you see."

P. Lentz, beyond the aid of human help, gazed into the jungle and
brought forth a supine.

"Is it possible, Lentz?" said The Roman. "Is it possible? Try once
more, but don't guess. Don't guess, Lentz; don't do it."

P. Lentz closed the book and sat down.

"What! A sudden indisposition? Too bad, Lentz, too bad. Now we'll try
Lazelle. Lazelle won't fail. Lazelle has not failed for a week."

The Gutter Pup rose in a panic, guessed and fell horribly over an
ordinary participle.

"Quite mysterious!" said The Roman, himself once more. "Sudden change
of weather. Mead, lend us the assistance of your splendid faculties.
What? Unable to rise? Too bad. Dear me--dear me--quite the feeling of
home again--quite homelike."

The carnage was terrific, the scythe passed over them with the
old-time sweep, laying them low. Once maliciously, when Fatty Harris
was on his feet, The Roman asked:

"Top of page, fifth word, gerund or gerundive?"

"Gerund," said Harris instantly.

"Ah, pardon----" said The Roman, bringing into play both eyebrows. "My
mistake, Harris, entirely my mistake. Go down to the next paragraph
and recognize a gerundive. No? Sit down--gently. Too bad--old methods
must make way for new ideas. Too bad, then you did have one chance in
two and now, where in the whole wide world will you find a friend to
help you? Class is dismissed."

"I told you you couldn't beat The Roman," said the Tennessee Shad.

"I made him change his system, though," said Dink gloriously, "and he
never caught me."

"Well, if you have, how are you going to spot the gerund and the
gerundive?"

"I don't need to; I've learned 'em," said Dink, laughing.


XVI


The Kennedy House Educational Quick Lunch Institute broke up in wrath
a week later when an innocent inquiry of Beekstein's for the passwords
revealed the direction of the club's finances.

Meanwhile, true to his resolve, Dink, with the assistance of Finnegan
and the Tennessee Shad, had started the fad of souvenir toilet sets;
which, like all fads, ran its course the faster because of its high
qualities of absurdity and uselessness. Dink's intention of recouping
himself by selling his own set of seven colors at a big advance was
cut short by a spontaneous protest to the Doctor from the house
masters, whose artistic souls were stirred to wrath at the hideous
invasion. The subject was then so successfully treated from the
pulpit, with all the power of sarcasm that it afforded, that the only
distinct artistic movement of New Jersey expired in ridicule.

Dink took this check severely to heart and, of course, beheld in this
thwarting of his scheme to dispose of the abhorrent set with honor a
fresh demonstration of the implacability of The Roman.

He wandered gloomily from Laloo's and Appleby's to the Jigger Shop;
where, after pulling his hat over his eyes, folding his arms
inconsolably, he confided his desires of revenge on Doc Macnooder to
the sympathetic ears of the guardian of the Jigger.

"Why not get up a contest and offer it as a prize?" said Al.

"Have you seen it?" said Dink, who then did the subject full justice.

Al remained very thoughtful for a long while, running back dreamily
through the avenues of the past for some stratagem.

"I remember way back in the winter of '88," he said at last, "there
was a slick coot by the name of Chops Van Dyne, who got strapped and
hit upon a scheme for decoying the shekels."

"What was that?" said Dink hopefully.

"He got up a guessing contest with a blind prize."

"A what?"

"A blind prize all done up in tissue paper and ribbons, and no one was
to know what was in it until it was won. It certainly was amazing the
number of suckers that paid a quarter to satisfy their curiosity."

"Well, what was inside?" said Dink at once.

"There you are!" said Al. "Why, nothing, of course--a lemon,
perhaps--but the point is, every one just had to know."

"Not a word!" said Dink, springing up triumphantly.

"Mum as the grave," said Al, accepting his handshake.

Dink went romping back like a young spring goat, his busy mind seizing
all the ramifications possible from the central theory. He found the
Tennessee Shad and communicated the great idea.

"I don't like the guessing part," said the Tennessee Shad.

"Nor I. We must get up a contest."

"A championship."

"Something devilishly original."

"Exactly."

"Well, what?"

"We must think."

The day was passed in fruitless searching but the next morning brought
the answer in the following manner: Dink and the Tennessee Shad--as
the majority of trained Laurentians--were accustomed to wallow
gloriously in bed until the breakfast gong itself. At the first crash
they would spring simultaneously forth and race through their dressing
for the winning of the stairs. Now this was an art in itself and many
records were claimed and disputed. The Tennessee Shad, like most lazy
natures, when aroused was capable of extraordinary bursts of speed and
was one of the claimants for the authorized record of twenty-six and a
fifth seconds from the bed to the door, established by the famous
Hickey Hicks who--as has been related--had departed to organize the
industries of his country. Of a consequence Stover was invariably
still at his collar button when the thin shadow of the Shad glided out
of the door. But on the present morning, the shoe laces of the
Tennessee Shad snapping in his hand, Dink reached the exit a bare yard
in advance. Suddenly he stopped, clasped the Tennessee Shad by the
middle and flung him toward the ceiling.

"I have it," he cried. "We'll organize the dressing championship of
the school!"

That very evening a poster was distributed among the houses, thus
conceived:

  FIRST AMATEUR DRESSING CHAMPIONSHIP
  OF THE SCHOOL

  under the management of that well-known

  Sporting Promoter
  MR. DINK STOVER

  FOR THE BELT OF THE SCHOOL

  and

  A SEALED MYSTERIOUS PRIZE

  Guaranteed to be Worth Over $3.50

  Entrance Fee 25c    Books Close at 6 P. M.

  To-morrow

  For Conditions and Details Consult
    MR. DENNIS DE B. DE B. FINNEGAN, Secretary.

While the announcement was running like quicksilver through the school
the souvenir toilet set was encased in cotton, packed in the smallest
compass, stowed in a wooden box, which was then sewed up in a gunny
sacking. This in turn was wrapped in colored paper, tied with bows of
pink ribbon and sealed with blue sealing wax stamped with the crest of
the school--VIRTUS SEMPER VIRIDIS. The whole was placed on a table at
the legs of which were grouped stands of flags.

By noon the next day one-half of the school had passed around the
table, measuring the mysterious package, touching the seals with
itching fingers and wanting to know the reason for such secrecy.

"There are reasons," said Stover, in response to all inquiries.
"Unusual, mysterious, excellent reasons. We ask no one to enter. We
only guarantee that the prize is worth over three dollars and fifty
cents. No one is coaxing you. No one will miss you. The entrance list
is already crowded. We are quite willing it should be closed. We urge
nobody!"

Macnooder came among the first, scratching his head and walking around
the prize as a fox about a tainted trap. Stover, watching from the
corner of his eye, studiously appeared to discourage him. Macnooder
sniffed the air once or twice in an alarmed sort of way, grunted to
himself and went off to try to pump Finnegan.

Finally, just before the closing of the entries, he shambled up with
evident dissatisfaction and said:

"Here's my quarter. It's for the championship, though, and not on
account of any hocus pocus in the box."

"Do I understand?" said Dink instantly, "that if you win you are
willing to let the prize go to the second man?"

"What are you making out of this?" said Doc hungrily, disdaining an
answer.

The contest, which began the next afternoon with thirty-one entries,
owing to certain features unusual to athletic contests, produced such
a furor of interest that the limited admissions to the struggle
brought soaring prices.

Everything was conducted on lines of exact formality.

Each contestant was required to don upper and lower unmentionables,
two socks, two shoes, which were to be completely laced and tied, a
dickey--formed by a junction of two cuffs, a collar and one
button--one necktie, one pair of trousers and one coat. Each
contestant was required satisfactorily to wash and dry both hands and
put into his hair a recognizable part.

The contestants were allowed to arrange on the chair their wearing
apparel according to their own theories, were permitted to fill the
wash basin with water, leaving the comb and towel on either side. In
order to prevent the formation of two classes, pajamas were suppressed
and each contestant, clothed in a nightshirt, was inducted under the
covers and his hair carefully disarranged.

Time was taken from the starting gun to the moment of the arrival of
the fully clothed, reasonably washed and apparently brushed candidate
at the door. Each time was to be noted and the two lowest scores were
to compete in the finals. A time limit of forty-five seconds was
imposed, after which the contestant was to be ruled out.

The first heat began with the Triumphant Egghead in the bed for the
Dickinson, Mr. Dennis de Brian de Boru Finnegan on the stop watch, Mr.
Dink Stover as master of ceremonies and Mr. Turkey Reiter, Mr.
Cheyenne Baxter and Mr. Charlie DeSoto as jurors.

The entries were admitted by all to be the pick of the school; while
the champions most favored, were the Tennessee Shad for the Kennedy,
Doc Macnooder for the Dickinson and the White Mountain Canary for the
Woodhull.

A certain delay took place on the third heat owing to Susie Satterly,
of the Davis House, refusing to compete unless there was less
publicity, and being peremptorily ruled out on a demand for a screen.

"The next on the program," said Stover, as master of ceremonies, "is
the champion of the Dickinson, the celebrated old-clothes man, Doctor
Macnooder."

Macnooder gracefully acknowledged the applause which invariably
attended his public performances and asked leave to make a speech,
which was unanimously rejected.

"Very well, gentlemen," said Macnooder, taking off his coat and
standing forth in a sudden blaze of rainbow underwear. "I will simply
draw attention to this neat little bit of color that I have the honor
to present to your inspection. It is the latest thing out in dainty
fancies and I stand ready to fill all orders. It is rather springy,
but why fall when you can spring? Don't applaud--you'll wake the
baby. It is light, it is warm, it gives a sense of exhilaration to
the skin. It endears you to your friends, and not even a Lawrenceville
suds-lady would bite a hole in it----"

"If you don't get into bed," said Dink, "I'll rule you out."

Macnooder, thus admonished, hastened to his post, merely remarking on
the distinction of his garters and impressionistic socks and the fact
that he had incurred great expense to afford his schoolmates an equal
opportunity.

"Are you ready?" said Turkey Reiter, for the indignant jury.

"One moment."

Macnooder, in bed, glanced carefully at the preparations without,
turned on his side and brought his knees up under his chin.

"All ready?"

"Go!"

With a circular kick, something like the flop of a whale's tail,
Macnooder drove the covers from him and sprang into the doubled
trousers.

A cheer went up from the spectators.

"Gee, what a dive!"

"Faster, Doc!"

"Wash carefully!"

"Behind the ears!"

"Don't forget the buttons!"

"That's the boy!"

"Come on, Doc, come on!"

"Oh, you Dickinson!"

"Hurray!"

"Time--twenty-seven seconds flat," said Dennis de Brian de Boru
Finnegan. "Best yet. Twenty-seven and four-fifths seconds, next on the
list, made by the White Mountain Canary and the Gutter Pup."

"Next contestant," said Dink, in sing-song, "is the champion of the
Rouse, Mr. Peanuts Biddle."

But here a difficulty arose.

"Please, sir," said the candidate, who as a freshman was visibly
embarrassed at the ordeal before him--"Please, sir, I don't part my
hair."

Every eye went to the pompadour, cropped like a scrubbing brush, and
recognized the truth of this assertion.

"Please, sir, I don't see why I should have to touch a comb."

A protest broke forth from the other candidates.

"Rats!"

"Penalize him!"

"Why part my hair?"

"I always do that with my fingers when I'm skating down the stairs."

"Why wash till afterward?"

"No favoritism!"

The jury retired to deliberate and announced amid cheers that to
equalize matters Mr. Peanuts Biddle would be handicapped two-fifths of
a second. The candidate took this ruling very much to heart and
withdrew.

The Tennessee Shad, closing the list of entries, slouched up to the
starting-line amid great excitement to better the record of Doc
Macnooder.

He first inspected the washstand, filling the basin higher than
customary and exchanging the stiff face towel for a soft bath towel,
which would more quickly absorb the moisture.

Doc Macnooder, who followed these preparations with a hostile eye,
protested against this last substitution, but was overruled.

The Tennessee Shad then divested himself of his coat and undergarments
amid cries of:

"Oh, you ribs!"

"What do they feed you?"

"Oh, you wish-bones!"

"Oh, you shad-bones!"

Macnooder then claimed that the undershirt was manifestly sewed to the
coat. The allegation was investigated and disproved, without in the
slightest ruffling the composure of the Tennessee Shad, who continued
his calculations while making a toothpick dance through his lips. By
means of safety pins, he next fastened the back and one wing of his
collar to his coat, so that one motion would clothe his upper half.

"I protest," said Doc Macnooder.

"Denied," said Turkey Reiter, as foreman of the jury.

The Tennessee Shad, donning the nightshirt, carefully unloosened the
laces of his low shoes, drew them off and arranged the socks inside of
them so as to economize the extra movement.

"The socks aren't his!" said Macnooder. "They're big enough for P.
Lentz."

"Proceed," said Turkey Reiter.

The Tennessee Shad then unloosened his belt and the trousers slipped
down him as a sailor down a greased pole.

Macnooder once more protested and was squelched.

The Tennessee Shad arranged the voluminous trousers, cast a final
glance, placed the toothpick on the table and went under the covers.

"All ready?" said Dink.

"Wait!" With the left hand he clutched the covers, with the right his
nightshirt, just back of the neck. "Ready now."

"Go!"

With one motion the Tennessee Shad flung the covers from him, tore off
his nightshirt and sprang from the bed like Venus from the waves.

The audience burst into cheers:

"Holy Mike."

"Greased lightning!"

"Oh, you Shad!"

"Gee, right through the pants!"

"Suffering Moses!"

"Look at him stab the shoes!"

"Right into the coat!"

"Go it, Shad!"

"Out for the record!"

"Gee, what a wash!"

"Come on, boy, come on!"

"Now for the part!"

"Hurray!"

"Hurrah!"

"Hurroo!"

"Time--twenty-six and one-fifth seconds," cried the shrill voice of
Dennis de Brian de Boru. "Equalizing the world's unchallenged
professional, amateur and scholastic record made by the late Hickey
Hicks! The champion's belt is now the Tennessee Shad's to have and to
hold. According to the program the champion and Doc Macnooder,
second-best score, will now run another heat for the mysterious sealed
prize, guaranteed to be worth over three dollars and fifty cents!"

Macnooder, adopting the Shad's theories of preparation, made an
extraordinary effort and brought his record down to twenty-six and
four-fifths seconds. The Tennessee Shad then, according to the plan
agreed upon with Stover, purposely broke a shoe-lace and lost the
match.

Dink, in a speech full of malice, awarded the mysterious sealed prize
to Doc Macnooder, with a request to open it at once.

Now, Macnooder, who had been busy thinking the matter over, had
sniffed the pollution in the air and, perceiving a wicked twinkle in
the eye of Stover, shifted the ground by carrying off the box despite
a storm of protests to his room in the Dickinson, where strategically
proving his title to Captain of Industry, he charged ten cents
admission to all who clamored to see the clearing up of the mystery.

Having thus provided a substantial consolation against discomfiture
and joined twenty other curiosity-seekers to his own fortunes, he
opened the box and beheld the prodigal souvenir set. At the same
moment Dink stepped forward and presented him with his own former bill
for three dollars and seventy-five cents.

       *     *     *     *     *

That night, after Stover had returned much puffed up with the
congratulations of his schoolmates on the outwitting of Macnooder,
the Tennessee Shad took him to task from a philosophical point of
view.

"Baron Munchausen, a word."

"Lay on."

"You must come down to earth."

"Wherefor?"

"You must occasionally, my boy, just as a matter of safeguarding
future ventures, start in and scatter a few truths."

"Pooh!" said Stover, with the memory of cheers. "Any fool can tell the
truth."

"Yes, but----"

"It's such a lazy way!"

"Still----"

"Enervating!"

"But----"

"Besides, now they expect something more from me."

"True," said the Tennessee Shad, "but don't you see, Dink, if you do
tell the truth no one will believe you."


XVII


  _Oh, we'll push her over
   Or rip the cover--
     Too bad for the fellows that fall!
   They must take their chances
   Of a bruise or two
     Who follow that jolly football._

So sang the group on the Kennedy steps, heralding the twilight; and
beyond, past the Dickinson, a chorus from the Woodhull defiantly flung
back the challenge. For that week the Woodhull would clash with the
Kennedy for the championship of the houses.

The football season was drawing to a close, only the final game with
Andover remained, a contest awaited with small hopes of victory. For
the season had been disastrous for the 'Varsity; several members of
the team had been caught in the toils of the octopus examination and,
what was worse among the members, ill-feeling existed due to past
feuds.

Stover, in the long grueling days of practice, had won the respect of
all. Just how favorable an impression he had made he did not himself
suspect. He had instinctive quickness and no sense of fear--that was
something that had dropped from him forever. It was not that he had to
conquer the impulse to flinch, as most boys do; it simply did not
exist with him. The sight of a phalanx of bone and muscle starting for
his end to sweep him off his feet roused only a sort of combative
rage, the true joy of battle. He loved to go plunging into the
unbroken front and feel the shock of bodies as he tried for the
elusive legs of Flash Condit or Charley DeSoto.

This utter recklessness was indeed his chief fault; he would rather
charge interference than fight it off, waiting for others to break it
up for him and so make sure of his man.

Gradually, however, through the strenuous weeks, he learned the deeper
lessons of football--how to use his courage and the control of his
impulses.

"It's a game of brains, youngster, remember that," Mr. Ware would
repeat day after day, hauling him out of desperate plunges. "That did
no good; better keep on your feet and follow the ball. Above all,
study the game."

His first lesson came when, at last being promoted to end on the
scrub, he found himself lined up against Tough McCarty, the opposing
tackle. Stover thought he saw the intention at once.

"Put me against Tough McCarty, eh?" he said, digging his nails into
the palms of his hands. "Want to try out my nerve, eh? I'll show 'em!"

Now McCarty did not relish the situation either; foreseeing as he did
the long weeks of strenuous contact with the one boy in the school who
was vowed to an abiding vengeance. The fact was that Tough McCarty,
who was universally liked for his good nature and sociable
inclination, had yielded to the irritation Stover's unceasing enmity
had aroused and had come gradually into something of the same attitude
of hostility. Also, he saw in the captain's assigning Stover to his
end a malicious attempt to secure amusement at his expense.

For all which reasons, when the scrub first lined up against the
'Varsity, the alarum of battle that rode on Stover's pugnacious front
was equaled by the intensity of his enemy's coldly-calculating glance.

"Here's where I squash that fly," thought McCarty.

"Here's where I fasten to that big stuff," thought Dink, "and sting
him until the last day of the season!"

The first direct clash came when the scrubs were given the ball and
Dink came in to aid his tackle box McCarty for the run that was
signaled around their end.

Tough made the mistake of estimating Stover simply by his lack of
weight, without taking account of the nervous, dynamic energy which
was his strength. Consequently, at the snap of the ball, he was taken
by surprise by the wild spring that Stover made directly at his throat
and, thrown off his balance momentarily by the frenzy of the impact,
tripped and went down under the triumphant Dink, who, unmindful of the
fact that the play had gone by, remained proudly fixed on the chest of
the prostrate tackle.

"Get off," said the muffled voice.

Stover, whose animal instincts were all those of the bulldog, pressed
down more firmly.

"Get off of me, you little blockhead," said McCarty growing furious as
he heard the jeers of his teammates at his humiliating reversal.

"Hurry up there, you Stover!" cried the voice of the captain,
unheeded, for Dink was too blindly happy with the thrill of perfect
supremacy over the hated McCarty to realize the situation.

"Stover!!!"

At the shouted command Dink looked up and at last perceived the play
was over. Reluctantly he started to rise, when a sudden upheaval of
the infuriated McCarty caught him unawares and Tough's vigorous arm
flung him head over heels.

Down went Dink with a thump and up again with rage in his heart. He
rushed up to McCarty as in the mad fight under the willows and struck
him a resounding blow.

The next moment not Tough, but Cockrell's own mighty hand caught him
by the collar and swung him around.

"Get off the field!"

"What?" said Dink, astounded, for in his ignorance he had expected
complimentary pats on his back.

"Off the field!"

Dink, cold in a minute, quailed under the stern eye of the supreme
leader.

"I did sling him pretty hard, Garry," said Tough, taking pity at the
look that came into Dink's eyes at this rebuke.

"Get off!"

Dink, who had stopped with a sort of despairing hope, went slowly to
the side-lines, threw a blanket over his head and shoulders and
squatted down in bitter, utter misery. Another was in his place,
plunging at the tackle that should have been his, racing down the
field under punts that made the blood leap in his exiled body. He did
not understand. Why had he been disgraced? He had only shown he
wasn't afraid--wasn't that why they had put him opposite Tough
McCarty, after all?

The contending lines stopped at last their tangled rushes and
straggled, panting, back for a short intermission. Dink, waiting under
the blanket, saw the captain bear down upon him and, shivering like a
dog watching the approach of his punishment, drew the folds tighter
about him.

"Stover," said the dreadful voice, loud enough so that every one could
hear, "you seem to have an idea that football is run like a
slaughterhouse. The quicker you get that out of your head the better.
Now, do you know why I fired you? Do you?"

"For slugging," said Dink faintly.

"Not at all. I fired you because you lost your head; because you
forgot you were playing football. If you're only going into this to
work off your private grudges, then I don't want you around. I'll fire
you off and keep you off. You're here to play football, to think of
eleven men, not one. You're to use your brains, not your fists. Why,
the first game you play in some one will tease you into slugging him
and the umpire will fire you. Then where'll the team be? There are
eleven men in this game on your side and on the other. No matter what
happens don't lose your temper, don't be so stupid, so brainless--do
you hear?"

"Yes, sir," said Dink, who had gradually retired under his blanket
until only the tip of the nose showed and the terror-stricken eyes.

"And don't forget this. You don't count. It isn't the slightest
interest to the team whether some one whales you or mauls you! It
isn't the slightest interest to you, either. Mind that! Nothing on
earth is going to get your mind off following the ball, sizing up the
play, working out the weak points--nothing. Brains, brains, brains,
Stover! You told me you came out here because we needed some one to be
banged around--and I took you on your word, didn't I? Now, if you're
going out there as an egotistical, puffed-up, conceited individual
who's thinking only of his own skin, who isn't willing to sacrifice
his own little, measly feelings for the sake of the school, who won't
fight for the team, but himself----"

"I say, Cap, that's enough," said Dink with difficulty; and
immediately retired so deep that only the mute, pleading eyes could be
discerned.

Cockrell stopped short, bit his lip and said sternly: "Line up now.
Get in, Stover, and don't let me ever have to call you down again.
Tough, see here." The two elevens ran out. The captain continued:
"Tough, every chance you get to-day give that little firebrand a jab,
understand? So it can't be seen."

The 'Varsity took the ball and for five minutes Dink felt as though
he were in an angry sea, buffeted, flung down and whirled about by
massive breakers. Without sufficient experience his weight was
powerless to stop the interference that bore him back. He tried to
meet it standing up and was rolled head over heels by the brawny
shoulders of Cheyenne Baxter and Doc Macnooder. Then, angrily, he
tried charging into the offenses and was drawn in and smothered while
the back went sweeping around his unprotected end for long gains.

Mr. Ware came up and volunteered suggestions:

"If you're going into it dive through them, push them apart with your
hands--so. Keep dodging so that the back won't know whether you're
going around or through. Keep him guessing and follow up the play if
you miss the first tackle."

Under this coaching Dink, who had begun to be discouraged, improved
and when he did get a chance at his man he dropped him with a fierce,
clean tackle, for this branch of the game he had mastered with
instinctive delight.

"Give the ball to the scrubs," said the captain, who was also
coaching.

Stover came in close to his tackle. The third signal was a trial at
end. He flung himself at McCarty, checked him and, to his amazement,
received a dig in the ribs. His fists clenched, went back and then
stopped as remembering, he drew a long breath and walked away, his
eyes on the ground; for the lesson was a rude one to learn.

"Stover, what are you doing?" cried the captain, who had seen all.

Dink, who had expected to be praised, was bewildered as well as hurt.

"What are you stopping for? You're thinking of McCarty again, aren't
you? Do you know where your place was? Back of your own half. Follow
up the play. If you'd been there to push there'd been an extra yard.
Think quicker, Stover."

"Yes, sir," said Stover, suddenly perceiving the truth. "You're right,
I wasn't thinking."

"Look here, boy," said the captain, laying his hand on his shoulders.
"I have just one principle in a game and I want you to tuck it away
and never forget it."

"Yes, sir," said Dink reverently.

"When you get in a game get fighting mad, but get cold mad--play like
a fiend--but keep cold. Know just what you're doing and know it all
the time."

"Thank you, sir," said Dink, who never forgot the theory, which had a
wider application than Garry Cockrell perhaps suspected.

"You laid it on pretty strong," said Mr. Ware to Cockrell, as they
walked back after practice.

"I did it for several reasons," said Garry; "first, because I believe
the boy has the makings of a great player in him; and second, I was
using him to talk to the team. They're not together and it's going to
be hard to get them together."

"Bad feeling?"

"Yes, several old grudges."

"What a pity, Garry," said Mr. Ware. "What a pity it is you can only
have second and third formers under you!"

"Why so?"

"Because they'd follow you like mad Dervishes," said Mr. Ware,
thinking of Dink.

Stover, having once perceived that the game was an intellectual one,
learned by bounds. McCarty, under instructions, tried his best to
provoke him, but met with the completest indifference. Dink found a
new delight in the exercise of his wits, once the truth was borne in
on him that there are more ways of passing beyond a windmill than
riding it down. Owing to his natural speed he was the fastest end on
the field to cover a punt, and once within diving distance of his man
he almost never missed. He learned, too, that the scientific
application of his one hundred and thirty-eight pounds, well timed,
was sufficient to counterbalance the disadvantage in weight. He never
loafed, he never let a play go by without being in it, and at
retrieving fumbles he was quick as a cat.

Meanwhile the house championships had gone on until the Woodhull and
the Kennedy emerged for the final conflict. The experience gained in
these contests, for on such occasions Stover played with his House
team, had sharpened his powers of analysis and given him a needed
acquaintance with the sudden, shifting crises of actual play.

Now, the one darling desire of Stover, next to winning the fair
opinion of his captain, was the rout of the Woodhull, of which Tough
McCarty was the captain and his old acquaintances of the miserable
days at the Green were members--Cheyenne Baxter, the Coffee-colored
Angel and Butsey White. This aggregation, counting as it did two
members of the 'Varsity, was strong, but the Kennedy, with P. Lentz
and the Waladoo Bird and Pebble Stone, the Gutter Pup, Lovely Mead and
Stover, all of the scrub, had a slight advantage.

Dink used to dream of mornings, in the lagging hours of recitation, of
the contest and the sweet humiliation of his ancient foes. He would
play like a demon, he would show them, Tough McCarty and the rest,
what it was to be up against the despised Dink--and dreaming thus he
used to say to himself, with suddenly tense arms:

"Gee, I only wish McCarty would play back of the line so I could get a
chance at him!"

But on Tuesday, during the 'Varsity practice, suddenly as a scrimmage
ended and sifted open a cry went up. Ned Banks, left end on the
'Varsity, was seen lying on the ground after an attempt to rise. They
gathered about him with grave faces, while Mr. Ware bent over him in
anxious examination.

"What is it?" said the captain, with serious face.

"Something wrong with his ankle; can't tell yet just what."

"I'll play Saturday, Garry," said Banks, gritting his teeth. "I'll be
ready by then. It's nothing much."

The subs carried him off the field with darkened faces--the last hopes
of victory seemed to vanish. The gloom spread thickly through the
school, even Dink, for a time, forgot the approaching hour of his
revenge in the great catastrophe. The next morning a little comfort
was given them in the report of Doctor Charlie that there was no
sprain but only a slight wrenching, which, if all went well, would
allow him to start the game. But the consolation was scant. What
chance had Banks in an Andover game? There would have to be a shift;
but what?

"Turkey Reiter will have to go from tackle to end," said Dink, that
afternoon, as in football togs they gathered on the steps before the
game, "and put a sub in Turkey's place."

"Who?"

"I don't know."

"I guess you don't."

"Might bring Butcher Stevens back from center."

"Who'd go in at center?"

"Fatty Harris, perhaps."

"Hello--here's Garry Cockrell now," said P. Lentz. "He don't look
particular cheerful, does he?"

The captain, looking indeed very serious, arrived, surveyed the group
and called Stover out. Dink, surprised, jumped up, saying:

"You want me, sir?"

"Yes."

Cockrell put his arm under his and drew him away.

"Stover," he said, "I've got bad news for you."

"For me?"

"Yes. I'm not going to let you go in the Woodhull game this
afternoon."

Stover received the news as though it had been the death of his entire
family, immediate and distant. His throat choked, he tried to say
something and did not dare trust himself.

"I'm sorry, my boy--but we're up against it, and I can't take any
risks now of your getting hurt."

"It means the game," said Dink at last.

"I'm afraid so."

"We've no one to put in my place--no one but Beekstein Hall," said
Stover desperately. "Oh, please, sir, let me play; I'll be awfully
careful. It's only a House game."

"Humph--yes, I know these House games. I'm sorry, but there's no help
for it."

"But I'm only a scrub, sir," said Stover, pleading hard.

"We're going to play you at end," said Cockrell suddenly, seeing he
did not understand, "just as soon as we have to take Banks out; and
Heaven only knows when that'll be."

Dink was aghast.

"You're not going--you're not going----" he tried to speak, and
stopped.

"Yes, we've talked it over and that seems best."

"But--Turkey Reiter--I--I thought you'd move him out."

"No, we don't dare weaken the middle; it's bad enough now."

"Oh, but I'm so light."

The captain watched the terror-stricken look in his face and was
puzzled.

"What's the matter? You're not getting shaky?"

"Oh, no, sir," said Dink, "it's not that. It--it seems so awful that
you've got to put me in."

"You're better, my boy, than you think," said Cockrell, smiling a
little, "and you're going to be better than you know how. Now you
understand why you've got to keep on the side-lines this afternoon.
You're too fragile to take risks on."

"Yes, I understand."

"It comes hard, doesn't it?"

"Yes, sir, it does; very hard."

When the Kennedy and the Woodhull lined up for play an hour later
little Pebble Stone was at end in place of Stover, who watched from
his post as linesman the contest that was to have been his
opportunity. He heard nothing of the buzzing comments behind, of the
cheers or the shouted entreaties. Gaze fixed and heart in throat, he
followed the swaying tide of battle, imprisoned, powerless to rush in
and stem the disheartening advance.

The teams, now more evenly matched, both showed the traces of tense
nerves in the frequent fumbling that kept the ball changing sides and
prevented a score during the first half.

In the opening of the second half, by a lucky recovery of a blocked
kick, the Kennedy scored a touchdown, but failed to kick the goal,
making the score four to nothing. The Woodhull then began a determined
assault upon the Kennedy's weak end. Stover, powerless, beheld little
Pebble Stone, fighting like grim death, carried back and back five,
ten yards at a time as the Woodhull swept up the field.

"It's the only place they can gain," he cried in his soul in bitter
iteration.

He looked around and caught the eye of Captain Cockrell and sent him a
mute, agonizing, fruitless appeal.

"Kennedy's ball," came the sharp cry of Slugger Jones, the umpire.

Dink looked up and felt the blood come back to his body again--on the
twenty-five yard line there had been a fumble and the advance was
checked. Twice again the battered end of the Kennedy was forced back
for what seemed certain touchdowns, only to be saved by loose work on
the Woodhull's part. It was getting dark and the half was ebbing
fast--three minutes more to play. A fourth time the Woodhull furiously
attacked the breach, gaining at every rush over the light opposition,
past the forty-yard line, past the twenty-yard mark and triumphantly,
in the last minute of play, over the goal for a touchdown. The ball
had been downed well to the right of the goal posts and the trial for
goal was an unusually difficult one. The score was a tie, everything
depended on the goal that, through the dusk, Tough McCarty was
carefully sighting. Dink, heartbroken, despairing, leaning on his
linesman's staff, directly behind the ball, waited for the long,
endless moments to be over. Then there was a sudden movement of
McCarty's body, a wild rush from the Kennedy and the ball shot high in
the air and, to Stover's horror, passed barely inside the farther
goalpost.

"No goal," said Slugger Jones. "Time up."

Dink raised his head in surprise, scarcely crediting what he had
heard. The Woodhull team were furiously disputing the decision,
encouraged by audible comments from the spectators. Slugger Jones,
surrounded by a contesting, vociferous mass, suddenly swept them aside
and began to take the vote of the officials.

"Kiefer, what do you say?"

Cap Kiefer, referee, shook his head.

"I'm sorry, Slugger, it was close, very close, but it did seem a goal
to me."

"Tug, what do you say?"

"Goal, sure," said Tug Wilson, linesman for the Woodhull. At this,
jeers and hoots broke out from the Kennedy.

"Of course he'll say that!"

"He's from the Woodhull."

"What do you think?"

"Justice!"

"Hold up, hold up, now," said Slugger Jones, more excited than any
one. "Don't get excited; it's up to your own man. Dink, was it a goal
or no goal?"

Stover suddenly found himself in a whirling, angry mass--the decision
of the game in his own hands. He saw the faces of Tough McCarty and
the Coffee-colored Angel in the blank crowd about him and he saw the
sneer on their faces as they waited for his answer. Then he saw the
faces of his own teammates and knew what they, in their frenzy,
expected from him.

He hesitated.

"Goal or no goal?" cried the umpire, for the second time.

Then suddenly, face to face with the hostile mass, the fighting blood
came to Dink. Something cold went up his back. He looked once more
above the riot, to the shadowy posts, trying to forget Tough McCarty,
and then, with a snap to his jaws, he answered:

"Goal."


XVIII


Dink returned to his room in a rage against everything and every one,
at Slugger Jones for having submitted the question, at Tough McCarty
for having looked as though he expected a lie, and at himself for ever
having acted as linesman.

If it had not been the last days before the Andover match he would
have found some consolation in rushing over to the Woodhull and
provoking McCarty to the long-deferred fight.

"He thought I'd lie out of it," he said furiously. "He did; I saw it.
I'll settle that with him, too. Now I suppose every one in this
house'll be down on me; but they'd better be mighty careful how they
express it."

For as he had left the field he had heard only too clearly how the
Kennedy eleven, in the unreasoning passion of conflict, had expressed
itself. At present, through the open window, the sounds of violent
words were borne up to him from below. He approached and looked down
upon the furious assembly.

"Damn me up and down, damn me all you want," he said, doubling up his
fists. "Keep it up, but don't come up to me with it."

Suddenly, back of him, the door opened and shut and Dennis de Brian de
Boru Finnegan stood in the room.

"I say, Dink----"

"Get out," said Stover furiously, seizing a pillow.

Finnegan precipitately retired and, placing the door between him and
the danger, opened it slightly and inserted his freckled little nose.

"I say, Dink----"

"Get out, I told you!" The pillow struck the door with a bang. "I
won't have any one snooping around here!"

The next instant Dennis, resolved on martyrdom, stepped inside,
saying:

"I say, old man, if it'll do you any good, take it out on me."

Stover, thus defied, stopped and said:

"Dennis, I don't want to talk about it."

"All right," said Dennis, sitting down.

"And I want to be alone."

"Correct," said Dennis, who didn't budge.

They sat in moody silence, without lighting the lamp.

"Pretty tough," said Dennis at last.

Stover's answer was a grunt.

"You couldn't see it the way the umpire did, could you?"

"No, I couldn't."

"Pretty tough!"

"I suppose," said Dink finally, "the fellows are wild."

"A little--a little excited," said Dennis carefully. "It was
tough--pretty tough!"

"You don't suppose I wanted that gang of muckers to win, do you?" said
Stover.

"I know," said Dennis sympathetically.

The Tennessee Shad now returned from the wars, covered with mud and
the more visible marks of the combat.

"Hello," he said gruffly.

"Hello," said Stover.

The Tennessee Shad went wearily to his corner and stripped for the
bath.

"Well, say it," said Stover, who, in his agitation, had actually
picked up a textbook and started to study. "Jump on me, why don't
you?"

"I'm not going to jump on you," said the Tennessee Shad, who weakly
pulled off the heavy shoes. "Only--well, you couldn't see it as the
umpire did, could you?"

"No!"

"What a day--what an awful day!"

Dennis de Brian de Boru Finnegan, with great tact, rose and hesitated:

"I'm going--I--I've got to get ready for supper," he said desperately.
Then he went lamely over to Stover and held out his hand: "I know how
you feel old man, but--but--I'm glad you did it!"

Whereupon he disappeared in blushing precipitation.

Stover breathed hard and tried to bring his mind to the printed
lesson. The Tennessee Shad, sighing audibly, continued his ablutions,
dressed and sat down.

"Dink."

"What?"

"Why did you do it?"

Then Stover, flinging down his book with an access of rage, cried out:

"Why? Because you all, every damn one of you, expected me to _lie_!"

       *     *     *     *     *

The next day Stover, who had firmly made up his mind to a sort of
modified ostracism, was amazed to find that over night he had become a
hero. By the next morning the passion and the bitterness of the
struggle having died away, the house looked at the matter in a calmer
mood and one by one came to him and gripped his hand with halting,
blurted words of apology or explanation.

Utterly unprepared for this development, Stover all at once realized
that he had won what neither courage nor wit had been able to bring
him, the something he had always longed for without being quite able
to name it--the respect of his fellows. He felt it in the looks that
followed him as he went over to chapel, in the nodded recognition of
Fifth Formers, who had never before noticed him, in The Roman himself,
who flunked him without satire or aggravation. And not yet knowing
himself, his impulses or the strange things that lay dormant beneath
the surface of his everyday life, Stover was a little ashamed, as
though he did not deserve it all.

That afternoon as Dink was donning his football togs, preparing for
practice, a knock came at the door which opened on a very much
embarrassed delegation from the Woodhull--the Coffee-colored Angel,
Cheyenne Baxter and Tough McCarty.

"I say, is that you, Dink?" said the Coffee-colored Angel.

"It is," said Stover, with as much dignity as the state of his
wardrobe would permit.

"I say, we've come over from the Woodhull, you know," continued the
Coffee-colored Angel, who stopped after this bit of illuminating news.

"Well, what do you want?"

"I say, that's not just it; we're sent by the Woodhull I meant to say,
and we want to say, we want you to know--how white we think it was of
you!"

"Old man," said Cheyenne Baxter, "we want to thank you. What we want
to tell you is how white we think it was of you."

"You needn't thank me," said Stover gruffly, pulling his leg through
the football trousers. "I didn't want to do it."

The delegation stood confused, wondering how to end the painful scene.

"It was awful white!" said the Coffee-colored Angel, tying knots in
his sweater.

"It certainly was," said Cheyenne.

As this brought them no further along the Coffee-colored Angel
exclaimed in alarm:

"I say, Dink, will you shake hands?"

Stover gravely extended his right.

Cheyenne next clung to it, blurting out:

"Say, Dink, I wish I could make you understand--just--just how white
we think it was!"

The two rushed away leaving Tough McCarty to have his say. Both stood
awkwardly, frightened before the possibility of a display of
sentiment.

"Look here," said Tough firmly, and then stopped, drew a long breath
and continued: "Say, you and I have sort of formed up a sort of
vendetta and all that sort of thing, haven't we?"

"We have."

"Now, I'm not going to call that off. I don't suppose you'd want it,
either."

"No, I wouldn't!"

"We've got to have a good, old, slam-bang fight sooner or later and
then, perhaps, it'll be different. I'm not coming around asking you to
be friends, or anything like that sort of rot, you know, but what I
want you to know is this--is this--what I want you to understand is
just how darned _white_ that was of you!"

"All right," said Stover frigidly, because he was tremendously moved
and in terror of showing it.

"That's not what I wanted to say," said Tough, frowning terrifically
and kicking the floor. "I mean--I say, you know what I mean, don't
you?"

"All right," said Stover gruffly.

"And I say," said Tough, remembering only one line of all he had come
prepared to say, "if you'll let me, Stover, I should consider it an
honor to shake your hand."

Dink gave his hand, trembling a little.

"Of course you understand," said Tough who thought he comprehended
Stover's silence, "of course we fight it out some day."

"All right," said Stover gruffly.

Tough McCarty went away. Dink, left alone, clad in his voluminous
football trousers, sat staring at the door, clasping his hands tensely
between his knees, and something inside of him welled up, dangerously
threatening his eyes--something feminine, to be choked instantly down.

He rose angrily, flung back his hair and filled his lungs. Then he
stopped.

"What the deuce are they all making such a fuss for?" he said. "I only
told the truth."

He struggled into his jersey, still trying to answer the problem. In
his abstraction he drew a neat part in his hair before perceiving the
_faux pas_, he hurriedly obliterated the effete mark.

"I guess," he said, standing at the window still pondering over the
new attitude toward himself--"I guess, after all, I don't know it all.
Tough McCarty--well, I'll be damned!"

Saturday came all too soon and with it the arrival of the stocky
Andover eleven. Dink dressed and went slowly across the campus--every
step seemed an effort. Everywhere was an air of seriousness and
apprehension, strangely contrasted to the gay ferment that usually
announced a big game. He felt a hundred eyes on him as he went and
knew what was in every one's mind. What would happen when Ned Banks
would have to retire and he, little Dink Stover, weighing one hundred
and thirty-eight, would have to go forth to stand at the end of the
line. And because Stover had learned the lesson of football, the
sacrifice for an idea, he too felt not fear but a sort of despair that
the hopes of the great school would have to rest upon him, little Dink
Stover, who weighed only one hundred and thirty-eight pounds.

He went quietly to the Upper, his eyes on the ground like a guilty
man, picking his way through the crowds of Fifth Formers, who watched
him pass with critical looks, and up the heavy stairs to Garry
Cockrell's room, where the team sat quietly listening to the final
instructions. He took his seat silently in an obscure corner, studying
the stern faces about him, hearing nothing of Mr. Ware's staccato
periods, his eyes irresistibly drawn to his captain, wondering how
suddenly older he looked and grave.

By his side Ned Banks was listening stolidly and Charlie DeSoto,
twisting a paper-weight in his nervous fingers, fidgeting on his chair
with the longing for the fray.

"That's all," said the low voice of Garry Cockrell. "You know what you
have to do. Go down to Charlie's room; I want a few words with
Stover."

They went sternly and quickly, Mr. Ware with them. Dink was alone,
standing stiff and straight, his heart thumping violently, waiting for
his captain to speak.

"How do you feel?"

"I'm ready, sir."

"I don't know when you'll get in the game--probably before the first
half is over," said Cockrell slowly. "We're going to put up to you a
pretty hard proposition, youngster." He came nearer, laying his hand
on Stover's shoulder. "I'm not going to talk nerve to you, young
bulldog, I don't need to. I've watched you and I know the stuff that's
in you."

"Thank you, sir."

"Not but what you'll need it--more than you've ever needed it before.
You've no right in this game."

"I know it, sir."

"Tough McCarty won't be able to help you out much. He's got the
toughest man in the line. Everything's coming at you, my boy, and
you've got to stand it off, somehow. Now, listen once more. It's a
game for the long head, for the cool head. You've got to think
quicker, you've got to out-think every man on the field and you can do
it. And remember this: No matter what happens never let up--get your
man back of the line if you can, get him twenty-five yards beyond you,
get him on the one-yard line,--but get him!"

"Yes, sir."

"And now one thing more. There's all sorts of ways you can play the
game. You can charge in like a bull and kill yourself off in ten
minutes, but that won't do. You can go in and make grandstand plays
and get carried off the field, but that won't do. My boy, you've got
to last out the game."

"I see, sir."

"Remember there's a bigger thing than yourself you're fighting for,
Stover--it's the school, the old school. Now, when you're on the
side-lines don't lose any time; watch your men, find out their tricks,
see if they look up or change their footing when they start for an end
run. Everything is going to count. Now, come on."

They joined the eleven below and presently, in a compact body, went
out and through Memorial and the chapel, where suddenly the field
appeared and a great roar went up from the school.

"All ready," said the captain.

They broke into a trot and swept up to the cheering mass. Dink
remembered seeing the Tennessee Shad, in his shirt sleeves,
frantically leading the school and thinking how funny he looked. Then
some one pulled a blanket over him and he was camped among the
substitutes, peering out at the gridiron where already the two elevens
were sweeping back and forth in vigorous signal drill.

He looked eagerly at the Andover eleven. They were big, rangy fellows
and their team worked with a precision and machine-like rush that the
red and black team did not have.

HARRIS. On his way, sir.

MAYOR.

I've had some awkward things to deal with in my time, 'Arris, but
this is just about the [Sniffs] limit.

HARRIS. Most uncomfortable, Sir; most uncomfortable!

MAYOR. Put a book on the chair, 'Arris; I like to sit 'igh.

HARRIS puts a volume of Eneyclopaedia on the Mayor's chair behind the
bureau.

[Deeply] Our fellow-magistrate!

A family man! In my shoes next year.

I suppose he won't be, now. You can't keep these things dark.

HARRIS. I've warned Martin, sir, to use the utmost discretion. Here's
Mr Chantrey.

By the door Left, a pleasant and comely gentleman has entered,
dressed with indefinable rightness in shooting clothes.

MAYOR. Ah, Chantrey!

CHANTREY.

How de do, Mr Mayor? [Nodding to HARRIS] This is extraordinarily
unpleasant.

The MAYOR nods.

What on earth's he been doing?

HARRIS.

Assaulting one of his own daughters with a stick; and resisting
the police.

CHANTREY. [With a low whistle] Daughter! Charity begins at
home.

HARRIS. There's a black eye.

MAYOR. Whose?

HARRIS. The constable's.

CHANTREY. How did the police come into it?

HARRIS. I don't know, sir.

The worst of it is he's been at the police station since four o'clock
yesterday. The Superintendent's away, and Martin never will take
responsibility.

CHANTREY. By George! he will be mad. John Builder's a choleric
fellow.

MAYOR.

[Nodding] He is. 'Ot temper, and an 'igh sense of duty.

HARRIS. There's one other charge, Mr Mayor--poaching. I told them to
keep that back till after.

CHANTREY. Oh, well, we'll make short work of that. I want to get off
by eleven, Harris. I shall be late for the first drive anyway. John
Builder!

I say, Mayor--but for the grace of God, there go we!

MAYOR. Harris, go out and bring them in yourself; don't let the servants--

HARRIS goes out Left. The MAYOR takes the upper chair behind the bureau,
sitting rather higher because of the book than CHANTREY, who takes
the lower.

Now that they are in the seats of justice, a sort of reticence falls
on them, as if they were afraid of giving away their attitudes of
mind to some unseen presence.

MAYOR. [Suddenly] H'm!

CHANTREY.

Touch of frost.

Birds ought to come well to the guns--no wind.

I like these October days.

MAYOR. I think I 'ear them.

H'm.

CHANTREY drops his eyeglass and puts on a pair of "grandfather"
spectacles.

The MAYOR clears his throat and takes up a pen. They neither
of them look up as the door is opened and a little procession files in.
First HARRIS; then RALPH BUILDER, ATHENE, HERRINGHAME, MAUD, MRS
BUILDER, SERGEANT MARTIN, carrying a heavy Malacca cane with a silver
knob; JOHN BUILDER and the CONSTABLE MOON, a young man with one black
eye. No funeral was ever attended by mutes so solemn and dejected.
They stand in a sort of row.

MAYOR. [Without looking up] Sit down, ladies; sit down.

HARRIS and HERRINGHAME succeed in placing the three women in chairs.
RALPH BUILDER also sits. HERRINGHAME stands behind. JOHN BUILDER remains
standing between the two POLICEMEN. His face is unshaved and menacing,
but he stands erect staring straight at the MAYOR.
HARRIS goes to the side of the bureau, Back, to take down the
evidence.

MAYOR. Charges!

SERGEANT. John Builder, of The Cornerways, Breconridge, Contractor and
Justice of the Peace, charged with assaulting his daughter Maud
Builder by striking her with a stick in the presence of Constable
Moon and two other persons; also with resisting Constable Moon in the
execution of his duty, and injuring his eye. Constable Moon!

MOON. [Stepping forward-one, two--like an automaton, and saluting]
In River Road yesterday afternoon, Your Worship, about three-thirty
p.m., I was attracted by a young woman callin' "Constable" outside
a courtyard.

On hearing the words "Follow me, quick," I followed her to a painter's
studio inside the courtyard, where I found three persons in the act
of disagreement.

No sooner 'ad I appeared than the defendant, who was engaged in
draggin' a woman towards the door, turns to the young woman who
accompanied me, with violence.

"You dare, father," she says; whereupon he hit her twice with the stick
the same which is produced, in the presence of myself and the two
other persons, which I'm given to understand is his wife and other
daughter.

MAYOR. Yes; never mind what you're given to understand.

MOON. No, sir. The party struck turns to me and says, "Come in. I give
this man in charge for assault."

I moves accordingly with the words:

"I saw you. Come along with me." The defendant turns to me sharp and
says: "You stupid lout--I'm a magistrate."

"Come off it," I says to the best of my recollection. "You struck
this woman in my presence," I says, "and you come along!" We were then
at close quarters.

The defendant gave me a push with the words: "Get out, you idiot!" "Not
at all," I replies, and took 'old of his arm. A struggle ensues, in
the course of which I receives the black eye which I herewith produce.
[He touches his eye with awful solemnity.]
The MAYOR clears his throat; CHANTREY'S eyes goggle; HARRIS bends over
and writes rapidly.

During the struggle, Your Worship, a young man has appeared on the
scene, and at the instigation of the young woman, the same who was
assaulted, assists me in securing the prisoner, whose language and
resistance was violent in the extreme.

We placed him in a cab which we found outside, and I conveyed him
to the station.

CHANTREY. What was his--er--conduct in the--er--cab?

MOON. He sat quiet.

CHANTREY. That seems--

MOON. Seein' I had his further arm twisted behind him.

MAYOR [Looking at BUILDER] Any questions to ask him?

BUILDER makes not the faintest sign, and the MAYOR drops his glance.

MAYOR. Sergeant?

MOON steps back two paces, and the SERGEANT steps two paces forward.

SERGEANT. At ten minutes to four, Your Worship, yesterday afternoon,
Constable Moon brought the defendant to the station in a
four-wheeled cab. On his recounting the circumstances of the assault,
they were taken down and read over to the defendant with the usual
warning. The defendant said nothing. In view of the double assault and
the condition of the constable's eye, and in the absence of the
Superintendent, I thought it my duty to retain the defendant
for the night.

MAYOR. The defendant said nothing?

SERGEANT. He 'as not opened his lips to my knowledge, Your
Worship, from that hour to this.

MAYOR. Any questions to ask the Sergeant?

BUILDER continues to stare at the MAYOR without a word.

MAYOR. Very well!

The MAYOR and CHANTREY now consult each other inaudibly, and the
Mayor nods.

MAYOR. Miss Maud Builder, will you tell us what you know of this--er--
occurrence?

MAUD. [Rising; with eyes turning here and there] Must I?

MAYOR. I'm afraid you must.

MAUD. [After a look at her father, who never turns his eyes from the
MAYOR's face] I--I wish to withdraw the charge of striking me,
please.

I--I never meant to make it. I was in a temper--I saw red.

MAYOR. I see.

A--a domestic disagreement. Very well, that charge is withdrawn. You
do not appear to have been hurt, and that seems to me quite proper.
Now, tell me what you know of the assault on the constable. Is his
account correct?

MAUD.

[Timidly] Ye-yes. Only--
MAYOR. Yes? Tell us the truth.

MAUD. [Resolutely] Only, I don't think my father hit the constable.

I think the stick did that.

MAYOR. Oh, the stick? But--er--the stick was in 'is 'and, wasn't
it?

MAUD. Yes; but I mean, my father saw red, and the constable saw red,
and the stick flew up between them and hit him in the eye.

CHANTREY.

And then he saw black?

MAYOR. [With corrective severity] But did 'e 'it 'im with the stick?

MAUD. No--no. I don't think he did.

MAYOR. Then who supplied the--er--momentum?

MAUD. I think there was a struggle for the cane, and it flew up.

MAYOR. Hand up the cane.

The SERGEANT hands up the cane. The MAYOR and CHANTREY examine it.
MAYOR. Which end--do you suggest--inflicted this injury?

MAUD. Oh! the knob end, sir.

MAYOR. What do you say to that, constable?

MOON. [Stepping the mechanical two paces] I don't deny there was a
struggle, Your Worship, but it's my impression I was 'it.

CHANTREY. Of course you were bit; we can see that. But with the cane
or with the fist?

MOON. [A little flurried] I--I--with the fist, sir.

MAYOR. Be careful. Will you swear to that?

MOON. [With that sudden uncertainty which comes over the most honest
in such circumstances] Not--not so to speak in black and white, Your
Worship; but that was my idea at the time.

MAYOR. You won't swear to it?

MOON. I'll swear he called me an idiot and a lout; the words made a deep
impression on me.

CHANTREY. [To himself] Mort aux vaches!

MAYOR. Eh? That'll do, constable; stand back. Now, who else saw the
struggle? Mrs Builder. You're not obliged to say anything unless
you like. That's your privilege as his wife.

While he is speaking the door has been opened, and HARRIS has gone
swiftly to it, spoken to someone and returned.

He leans forward to the MAYOR.

Eh? Wait a minute. Mrs Builder, do you wish to give evidence?

MRS BUILDER. [Rising] No, Mr Mayor.

MRS BUILDER Sits.

MAYOR.

Very good. [To HARRIS] Now then, what is it?

HARRIS says something in a low and concerned voice.

The MAYOR'S face lengthens.

He leans to his right and consults CHANTREY, who gives a faint and
deprecating shrug. A moment's silence.

MAYOR. This is an open Court.

The Press have the right to attend if they wish.

HARRIS goes to the door and admits a young man in glasses, of a
pleasant appearance, and indicates to him a chair at the back. At this
untimely happening BUILDER's eyes have moved from side to side, but
now he regains his intent and bull-like stare at his
fellow-justices.

MAYOR. [To Maud] You can sit down, Miss Builder.

MAUD resumes her seat.

Miss Athene Builder, you were present, I think?

ATHENE. [Rising] Yes, Sir.

MAYOR. What do you say to this matter?

ATHENE. I didn't see anything very clearly, but I think my sister's
account is correct, sir.

MAYOR. Is it your impression that the cane inflicted the injury?

ATHENE. [In a low voice] Yes.

MAYOR. With or without deliberate intent?

ATHENE. Oh! without.

BUILDER looks at her.

MAYOR. But you were not in a position to see very well?

ATHENE. No, Sir.

MAYOR. Your sister having withdrawn her charge, we needn't go into
that.

Very good!

He motions her to sit down. ATHENE, turning her eyes on her Father's
impassive figure, sits.

MAYOR. Now, there was a young man.

[Pointing to HERRINGHAME] Is this the young man?

MOON. Yes, Your Worship.

MAYOR. What's your name?

GUY. Guy Herringhame.

MAYOR. Address?

GUY. Er--the Aerodrome, Sir. MAYOR. Private, I mean?

The moment is one of considerable tension.

GUY. [With an effort] At the moment, sir, I haven't one. I've
just left my diggings, and haven't yet got any others.

MAYOR.

H'm! The Aerodrome. How did you come to be present?

GUY.

I--er
BUILDER's eyes go round and rest on him for a moment.

It's in my sister's studio that Miss Athene Builder is at present
working, sir. I just happened to--to turn up.

MAYOR. Did you appear on the scene, as the constable says, during the
struggle?

GUY. Yes, sir.

MAYOR. Did he summon you to his aid?

GUY. Yes--No, sir. Miss Maud Builder did that.

MAYOR.

What do you say to this blow?

GUY. [Jerking his chin up a little] Oh! I saw that clearly.

MAYOR. Well, let us hear.

GUY. The constable's arm struck the cane violently and it
flew up and landed him in the eye.

MAYOR.

[With a little grunt] You are sure of that?

GUY. Quite sure, sir.

MAYOR. Did you hear any language?

GUY. Nothing out of the ordinary, sir. One or two damns and blasts.

MAYOR. You call that ordinary?

GUY. Well, he's a--magistrate, sir.

The MAYOR utters a profound grunt.

CHANTREY smiles. There is a silence.

Then the MAYOR leans over to CHANTREY for a short colloquy.

CHANTREY. Did you witness any particular violence other than a
resistance to arrest?

GUY. No, sir.

MAYOR. [With a gesture of dismissal] Very well, That seems to be
the evidence.

Defendant John Builder--what do you say to all this?

BUILDER. [In a voice different from any we have heard from him] Say!
What business had he to touch me, a magistrate? I gave my daughter two
taps with a cane in a private house, for interfering with me for
taking my wife home-- 
MAYOR.

That charge is not pressed, and we can't go into the circumstances.

What do you wish to say about your conduct towards the constable?

BUILDER. [In his throat] Not a damned thing!

MAYOR. [Embarrassed] I--I didn't catch.

CHANTREY. Nothing--nothing, he said, Mr Mayor.

MAYOR. [Clearing his throat] I understand, then, that you do not
wish to offer any explanation?
BUILDER. I consider myself abominably treated, and I refuse to say
another word.

MAYOR. [Drily] Very good. Miss Maud Builder.
MAUD stands up.
MAYOR. When you spoke of the defendant seeing red, what exactly did
you mean?
MAUD. I mean that my father was so angry that he didn't know what
he was doing.
CHANTREY. Would you say as angry as he--er--is now?
MAUD. [With a faint smile] Oh! much more angry.
RALPH BUILDER stands up.
RALPH. Would you allow me to say a word, Mr Mayor?
MAYOR. Speaking of your own knowledge, Mr Builder?
RALPH. In regard to the state of my brother's mind--yes, Mr Mayor.
He was undoubtedly under great strain yesterday; certain circumstances,
domestic and otherwise--
MAYOR. You mean that he might have been, as one might say, beside
himself?

RALPH. Exactly, Sir.

MAYOR. Had you seen your brother?
RALPH. I had seen him shortly before this unhappy business.
The MAYOR nods and makes a gesture, so that MAUD and RALPH sit down;
then, leaning over, he confers in a low voice with CHANTREY. The
rest all sit or stand exactly as if each was the only person in the
room, except the JOURNALIST, who is writing busily and rather
obviously making a sketch of BUILDER.
MAYOR. Miss Athene Builder.

ATHENE stands up.
This young man, Mr Herringhame, I take it, is a friend of the
family's?

A moment of some tension.
ATHENE. N--no, Mr Mayor, not of my father or mother.
CHANTREY. An acquaintance of yours?

ATHENE. Yes.
MAYOR. Very good. [He clears his throat] As the defendant, wrongly,
we think, refuses to offer his explanation of this matter, the Bench
has to decide on the evidence as given. There seems to be some
discrepancy as to the blow which the constable undoubtedly received.
In view of this, we incline to take the testimony of Mr--
HARRIS prompts him.
Mr 'Erringhame--as the party least implicated personally in the
affair, and most likely to 'ave a cool and impartial view. That
evidence is to the effect that the blow was accidental. There is
no doubt, however, that the defendant used reprehensible language,
and offered some resistance to the constable in the execution of
his duty. Evidence 'as been offered that he was in an excited state
of mind; and it is possible --I don't say that this is any
palliation--but it is possible that he may have thought his position
as magistrate made him--er--
CHANTREY. [Prompting] Caesar's wife.
MAYOR. Eh? We think, considering all the circumstances, and the
fact that he has spent a night in a cell, that justice will be met
by--er-- discharging him with a caution.
BUILDER. [With a deeply muttered] The devil you do!
Walks out of the room. The JOURNALIST, grabbing his pad, starts up
and follows. The BUILDERS rise and huddle, and, with HERRINGHAME,
are ushered out by HARRIS.
MAYOR. [Pulling out a large handkerchief and wiping his forehead]
My Aunt!
CHANTREY. These new constables, Mayor! I say, Builder'll have to
go!
Damn the Press, how they nose everything out! The Great Unpaid!--
We shall get it again! [He suddenly goes off into a fit of laughter]
"Come off it," I says, "to the best of my recollection." Oh! Oh!
I shan't hit a bird all day! That poor devil Builder! It's no joke
for him. You did it well, Mayor; you did it well. British justice
is safe in your hands. He blacked the fellow's eye all right. "Which
I herewith produce." Oh! my golly! It beats the band!
His uncontrollable laughter and the MAYOR'S rueful appreciation are
exchanged with lightning rapidity for a preternatural solemnity,
as the door opens, admitting SERGEANT MARTIN and the lugubrious
object of their next attentions.

MAYOR. Charges.
SERGEANT steps forward to read the charge as 
The CURTAIN falls.
SCENE II 
Noon the same day.
BUILDER'S study. TOPPING is standing by the open window, looking
up and down the street. A newspaper boy's voice is heard calling
the first edition of his wares. It approaches from the Right.
TOPPING. Here!
BOY'S VOICE. Right, guv'nor! Johnny Builder up before the beaks!
[A paper is pushed up].
TOPPING. [Extending a penny] What's that you're sayin'? You take
care!
BOY'S VOICE. It's all 'ere. Johnny Builder--beatin' his
wife!
Dischawged.

TOPPING. Stop it, you young limb!
BOY'S VOICE. 'Allo! What's the matter wiv you? Why, it's Johnny
Builder's house! [Gives a cat-call] 'Ere, buy anuvver! 'E'll want
to read about 'isself. [Appealing] Buy anuvver, guv'nor!
TOPPING. Move on!
He retreats from the window, opening the paper.
BOY'S VOICE. [Receding] Payper! First edition! J.P. chawged!
Payper!
TOPPING. [To himself as he reads] Crimes! Phew! That accounts for
them bein' away all night.
While he is reading, CAMILLE enters from the hall. Here! Have you
seen this, Camel--in the Stop Press?

CAMILLE. No.
They read eagerly side by side.
TOPPING. [Finishing aloud] "Tried to prevent her father from forcing
her mother to return home with him, and he struck her for so doing.
She did not press the charge. The arrested gentleman, who said he
acted under great provocation, was discharged with a caution." Well,
I'm blowed!
He has gone and done it!

CAMILLE. A black eye!
TOPPING. [Gazing at her] Have you had any hand in this? I've seen
you making your lovely black eyes at him. You foreigners--you're a
loose lot!

CAMILLE. You are drunk!
TOPPING. Not yet, my dear. [Reverting to the paper; philosophically]
Well, this little lot's bust up! The favourites will fall down.
Johnny Builder! Who'd have thought it?
CAMILLE. He is an obstinate man.
TOPPING. Ah! He's right up against it now. Comes of not knowin'
when to stop bein' firm. If you meet a wall with your 'ead, it's
any odds on the wall, Camel. Though, if you listened to some, you
wouldn't think it.
What'll he do now, I wonder? Any news of the mistress?
CAMILLE. [Shaking her head] I have pack her tr-runks.
TOPPING. Why?

CAMILLE. Because she take her jewels yesterday.
TOPPING. Deuce she did! They generally leave 'em. Take back yer
gifts!
She throws the baubles at 'is 'ead. [Again staring at her] You're
a deep one, you know!

There is the sound of a cab stopping.
Wonder if that's him! [He goes towards the hall. CAMILLE watchfully
shifts towards the diningroom door. MAUD enters.]
MAUD. Is my father back, Topping?

TOPPING. Not yet, Miss.
MAUD. I've come for mother's things.

CAMILLE. They are r-ready.
MAUD. [Eyeing her] Topping, get them down, please.
TOPPING, after a look at them both, goes out into the hall.
Very clever of you to have got them ready.

CAMILLE. I am clevare.
MAUD. [Almost to herself] Yes--father may, and he may not.
CAMILLE. Look! If you think I am a designing woman, you are mistook.
I know when things are too 'ot. I am not sorry to go.
MAUD. Oh! you are going?
CAMILLE. Yes, I am going. How can I stay when there is no lady in
the 'ouse?

MAUD. Not even if you're asked to?
CAMILLE. Who will ask me?

MAUD. That we shall see.
CAMILLE. Well, you will see I have an opinion of my own.
MAUD. Oh! yes, you're clear-headed enough.
CAMILLE. I am not arguing. Good-morning!

Exits up Left.
MAUD regards her stolidly as she goes out into the dining-room,
then takes up the paper and reads.

MAUD. Horrible!
TOPPING re-enters from the hall.
TOPPING. I've got 'em on the cab, Miss. I didn't put your ten bob
on yesterday, because the animal finished last. You cant depend on
horses.
MAUD. [Touching the newspaper] This is a frightful business,
Topping.

TOPPING. Ah! However did it happen, Miss Maud?
MAUD. [Tapping the newspaper] It's all true. He came after my mother
to Miss Athene's, and I--I couldn't stand it. I did what it says
here; and now I'm sorry. Mother's dreadfully upset. You know father
as well as anyone, Topping; what do you think he'll do now?

TOPPING.Dink, side by
side with Tough McCarty, thrilled with the same thrill, plunging ahead
with the same motion, fighting the same fight; no longer alone and
desperate, but nerved with the consciousness of a partner whose
gameness matched his own.

For thirty yards they carried the ball down the field, before the
stronger Andover team, thrown off its feet by the unexpected frenzy,
could rally and stand them off. Then an exchange of punts once more
drove them back to their twenty-five-yard line.

A second time the Andover advance set out from the fifty-yard line and
slowly fought its way to surrender the ball in the shadow of the
goalposts.

Stover played on in a daze, remembering nothing of the confused shock
of bodies that had gone before, wondering how much longer he could
hold out--to last out the game as the captain had told him. He was
groggy, from time to time he felt the sponge's cold touch on his face
or heard the voice of Tough McCarty in his ear.

"Good old Dink, die game!"

How he loved McCarty fighting there by his side, whispering to him:

"You and I, Dink! What if he is an old elephant, we'll put him out the
play."

Still, flesh and blood could not last forever. The half must be nearly
up.

"Two minutes more time."

"What was that?" he said groggily to Flash Condit.

"Two minutes more. Hold 'em now!"

It was Andover's ball. He glanced around. They were down near the
twenty-five-yard line somewhere. He looked at McCarty, whose frantic
head showed against the sky.

"Break it up, Tough," he said, and struggled toward him.

A cry went up, the play was halted.

"He's groggy," he heard voices say, and then came the welcome splash
of the sponge.

Slowly his vision cleared to the anxious faces around him.

"Can you last?" said the captain.

"I'm all right," he said gruffly.

"Things cleared up now?"

"Fine!"

McCarty put his arm about him and walked with him.

"Oh, Dink, you will last, won't you?"

"You bet I will, Tough!"

"It's the last stand, old boy!"

"The last."

"Only two minutes more we've got to hold 'em! The last ditch, Dink."

"I'll last."

He looked up and saw the school crouching along the line--tense drawn
faces. For the first time he realized they were there, calling on him
to stand steadfast.

He went back, meeting the rush that came his way, half-knocked aside,
half-getting his man, dragged again until assistance came. DeSoto's
stinging hand slapped his back and the sting was good, clearing his
brain.

Things came into clear outline once more. He saw down the line and to
the end where Garry Cockrell stood.

"Good old captain," he said. "They'll not get by me, not now."

He was in every play it seemed to him, wondering why Andover was
always keeping the ball, always coming at his end. Suddenly he had a
shock. Over his shoulder were the goalposts, the line he stood on was
the line of his own goal.

He gave a hoarse cry and went forward like a madman, parting the
interference. Some one else was through; Tough was through; the whole
line was through flinging back the runner. He went down clinging to
Goodhue, buried under a mass of his own tacklers. Then, through the
frenzy, he heard the shrill call of time.

He struggled to his feet. The ball lay scarcely four yards away from
the glorious goalposts. Then, before the school could sweep them up;
panting, exhausted, they gathered in a circle with incredulous,
delirious faces, and leaning heavily, wearily on one another gave the
cheer for Andover. And the touch of Stover's arm on McCarty's shoulder
was like an embrace.


XIX


At nine o'clock that night Stover eluded Dennis de Brian de Boru
Finnegan and the Tennessee Shad and went across the dusky campus,
faintly lit by the low-hanging moon. Past him hundreds of gnomelike
figures were scurrying, carrying shadowy planks and barrels, while
gleeful voices crossed and recrossed.

"There's a whole pile back of Appleby's."

"We've got an oil barrel."

"Burn every fence in the county!"

"Who cares!"

"Where did you get that plank?"

"Up by the Rouse."

"Gee, we'll have a bonfire bigger'n the chapel!"

"More wood, Freshmen!"

"Rotten lot, those Freshmen!"

"Hold up your end, Skinny. Do you think I'm a pack mule?"

Dink pulled the brim of his hat over his eyes and slunk away, not to
be recognized. He went in a roundabout way past the chapel. He had
just one desire, to stand under the goalposts they had defended and to
feel again the thrill.

"Who's that?" The voice was Tough McCarty's.

"It's me. It's Dink," said Stover.

"I came down here," said McCarty, appearing from under the goalposts
and hesitating a little, "well, just to feel how it felt again."

"So did I."

Dink stood by the posts, taking one affectionately in his hand, and
said curiously: "They tell me, Tough, we held 'em four times inside
the ten-yard line."

"Four times, old boy."

"Funny I don't remember but two. Guess I was groggy."

"You didn't show it."

"It was you pulled me through, Tough."

"Rats!"

"It was. There at the last, I remember when you gripped me." As this
was perilously near sentiment he stopped. "I say, how many of us
tackled that fellow the last time?"

"The whole bunch. I say, Dink."

"Yes?"

"Stand out here--that's it, knee to knee. Can't you just feel it
behind you?"

"Yes," said Dink, surprised that in the big body there was an
imagination akin to his own. Then he said abruptly:

"Tough, I guess there won't be any fight."

"No--not after this."

"What the deuce did we get a grudge for, anyway?"

"I always liked you, Dink, but you wouldn't have it."

"I was a mean little varmint!"

"Rats! I say, Dink, we've got two years more on the old team. There's
nothing going to get around our end, is there, old boy?"

"You bet there isn't!"

All at once a flame ran up the towering bonfire and belched toward the
sky.

"Are you going to let them get you?" said McCarty.

"Me? Oh, Lord, no--I can't make a speech!"

"Neither can I!" said Tough mendaciously. "I wouldn't go back there
for the world!"

The thin posts stood out against the sheet of flame, gaunt, rigid,
imbued with a certain grandeur.

"I say, Dink," said McCarty.

"Yes?"

"I say, we're going to have some great old fights together. But, do
you know, I sort of feel after all, this will be the best."

Then a chorus of thin shrieks rose about them. They started
half-heartedly to run, pretending fury. A swarm of determined boyhood
rushed over them and flung them kicking, struggling into the air.

"Tough McCarty and Dink Stover!"

"We've got 'em!"

"On to the bonfire!"

"They're ours!"

"Hurray!"

"Help!"

"Help! We've got McCarty and Stover!"

Boys by the score came tearing out. The little knot under Dink became
a thick, black shadow, rushing forward with hilarious, triumphant
shouts. Then all at once he landed all-fours on a cart before the
flaming stack, greeted by fishhorns and rattles, his name shrieked out
in a wild acclaim.

"Three cheers for good old Dink!"

"Three cheers for honest John Stover!"

"Three cheers for the little cuss!"

He drew himself up, fumbling at his cap, terrified at the multiplied
faces that danced before his eyes.

"I say, fellows----"

"Hurray!"

"Good boy!"

"Orator!"

"I say, fellows, I don't see why you've got me up here."

"You don't!"

"We'll show you!"

"Dink, you're the finest ever!"

"You're the stuff!"

"Three cheers for good old Rinky Dink!"

"Fellows, I'm no silver-tongued orator----"

"Don't believe it!"

"You are!"

"Fellows, I haven't got anything to say----"

"That's the stuff!"

"Hurray!"

"Keep it up!"

"Oh, you bulldog!"

"Fellows, they were good----"

A derisive shout went up.

"Fellows, they were very good----"

"Yes, they were!"

"Fellows, they were re-markably good--but _they didn't beat the old
school team_! That's all."

He dove headlong into the crowd, unaware that he had repeated for the
sixth time the stock oration of the evening.

"Good old Dink! Good old Rinky Dink!"

The cry stuck in his memory all through the jubilant night and long
after, when in his delicious bed he tossed and worried over the
tackles he had missed.

"It's a bully nickname--bully!" he repeated drowsily, again and again.
"It sounds as though they liked you! And Tough McCarty, what a bully
chap--bully! We're going to be friends--pals--what a bully fellow!
Everything is bully--everything!"

       *     *     *     *     *

With the close of the football season and the advent of December, with
its scurries of snow and sleet, what might be termed the open season
for masters began.

A school of four hundred fellows is a good deal like a shaky monarchy:
the football and baseball seasons akin to foreign wars; so long as
they last the tranquillity of the state is secure, but with the return
of peace a state of fermentation and unrest is due.

The three weeks that lead to the Christmas vacation are too filled
with anticipation to be dangerous. It is the long reaches after
January fifth, the period of arctic night that settles down until the
passing of the muddy month of March, that tries the souls of the
keepers of these caged menageries.

Since those days a humane direction has built a gymnasium to lighten
the condition of servitude, preserve the health and prolong the lives
of the Faculty. But at this time, with the shutting of the door on the
treadmills of exercise, the young assistant master arranged his warm
wrapper and slippers at the side of his bed and went to sleep with one
ear raised.

Dink Stover entered this season of mischief with all the ardor and
intensity of his nature, the more so because, owing to his weeks of
strict training and his virtual isolation of the year before, it was
all strange to him. And at that period what is forbidden, dangerous
and, above all, untried, must be attempted at least once.

Now, owing to the foresight of a wise father, Dink had never been
forbidden to smoke. MEGAN. [Conscious of the disruption of his
personality, and withdrawing into her tragic abyss.] I wouldn't 'a
come, but you told me if I wanted an 'and----
WELLWYN. [Gradually losing himself in his own nature.] Let me
see--corner of Flight Street, wasn't it?But between smoking under permission and squeezing close to a cold-air
ventilator, stealthily, in the pin-drop silences of the night, with
frightful risks of detection, was all the difference in the world. One
was a disagreeable, thoroughly unsympathetic exercise; the other was a
romantic, mediæval adventure.

So when Slops Barnett, who roomed below and was the proprietor of a
model air flue with direct, perpendicular draught, said to him with an
air of mannish _insouciance_:

"I say, old man, I've got a fat box of 'Gyptians. Glad to have you
drop in to-night if you like the weed."

Dink answered with blasé familiarity:

"Why, thankee, I've been aching for just a good old coffin-nail."

He slipped down the creaking, nervous stairs, and found Slops
luxuriously reclining before the ventilator, on a mattress re-enforced
by yellow and green sofa pillows, that gave the whole somewhat of the
devilishly dissipated effect of the scenes from Oriental lands that
fascinated him on the covers of cigarette boxes.

Slops made him a sign in the deaf-and-dumb language to extinguish the
light and creep to his side.

"Comfy?" said Slops, whispering from the darkness.

"Out of sight!"

"Here's the filthy weed."

"Thanks."

"Always keep the cig in front of the ventilator," said Slops, applying
his lips to Dink's ear. "Get a light from mine. Talk in whispers."

Stover filled his cheeks cautiously and blew out after a sufficient
period.

"You inhale?"

"Sure."

"Inhale a cigar?"

"Always."

"It's awful the way I inhale," said Slops with a melancholy sigh. "I'm
undermining my constitution. Ever see my hand? Shakes worse'n jelly.
Can't help it, though; can't live without the weed. I'm a regular cig
fiend!"

Stover, holding his cigarette gingerly, keeping the sickly smoke at
the end of his tongue, looked over at Slops' stupid little face,
flashing out of the darkness at each puff. He was no longer the
useless Slops Barnett, good only to fetch and carry the sweaters of
the team, but Barnett, man of the world, versed in deadly practices.

"I say, Slops----"

"Hist--lower."

"I say, Slops, what would they do if they caught us?"

"Bounce us."

"For good?"

"Sure! P. D. Q."

The cigarette suddenly had a new delight to Dink. He was even tempted
to inhale a small, very small puff, but immediately conquered this
enthusiastic impulse.

"Isn't this the gay life, though?" said Slops carelessly.

"You bet," said Dink.

From down the flue came three distinct taps.

"That's the Gutter Pup signaling," said Slops, putting his finger
over Dink's mouth. "Bundy is snooping around. Mum's the word."

Presently, as Dink sat there in the darkness, trying desperately to
breathe noiselessly, the sound of slipping footsteps was heard in the
hall. Slops' hand closed over his. The steps stopped directly outside
their door, waited a long moment and went on.

"Bundy?" said Dink in a whisper.

"Yes."

"Why did he stop?"

"He's got me spotted. He's seen the nicotine on my finger," said
Slops, showing a finger under a sudden glow of his cigarette.

A half-hour later when Dink crept up the stairs, homeward bound, he
swelled with a new sensation. Yesterday was months away; then he was a
boy, now that he had smoked up a cold-air ventilator, with Bundy
outwitted by the door, he had aged with a jump--he must be at last a
man.

The next week he added to his stature by going to P. Lentz's room for
a midnight session of the national game, where, after a titanic
struggle of three hours, he won the colossal sum of forty-eight cents.

Having sunk to these depths he began to listen to the Sunday sermons
with a thrill of personal delight--there being not the slightest
doubt that they were directly launched at him. Sometimes he wondered
how the Doctor and The Roman could remain ignorant of the extent of
his debauches, his transgressions were so daring and so complete. He
stood shivering up the Trenton road, under the shadow of an icy trunk,
of Sunday mornings, and met Blinky, the one-eyed purveyor of illicit
cigarettes and the forbidden Sunday newspapers, which had to be
wrapped around his body and smuggled under a sweater.

Secretly he rubbed iodine on his fingers to simulate the vicious stain
of nicotine that was such a precious ornament to Slops' squat fingers.
Only one thing distressed him, and that was his invincible dislike for
the cigarette itself.

Being now a celebrity, many doors were thrown invitingly open to him,
invitations that flattered him, without his making a distinction. He
went over to the Upper at times and into rooms where he had no
business, immensely proud that he was called in to share the delights
and liberties of the lords of the school.

At the Kennedy he was in constant rebellion against established
precedent, constantly called below to be lectured by The Roman. In
revenge for which at night he made the life of Mr. Bundy one of
constant insomnia, and, by soaping the stairs or strewing tacks in the
hall, seriously interfered with that inexperienced young gentleman's
nightly exercises.

The deeper he went the deeper he was determined to go; doggedly
imagining that the whole Faculty, led by The Roman, were bending every
effort to bring him down and convict him.

The Tennessee Shad had no inclinations toward sporting life--greatly
to Stover's surprise. When Dink urged him to join the clandestine
parties he only yawned in a bored way.

"Come on now, Shad, be a sport," said Dink, repeating the stock
phrase.

"You're not sports," said the Tennessee Shad in languid derision,
"you're bluffs. Besides, I've been all through it, two years ago.
Hurry up with your dead-game sporting phase, if you've got to, but get
through it; 'cause now you're nothing but a nuisance."

Dink felt considerably grieved at his roommate's flippant attitude
toward his career of vice. Secretly, he felt that a word of kindly
remonstrance, some friendly effort to pull him back from the frightful
abyss into which he was sinking, would have been more like a friend
and a roommate.

This same callous indifference to the fate of his roommate's soul so
incensed Stover that, to bring before the Shad's eyes the really
desperate state of his morals, he appointed a Welsh-rabbit party in
their room for the following night.

"Don't mind, do you?" he said carelessly.

"Not if I don't have to eat it!"

"It's going to be a real one," said Stover, "making a distinction."

"Come off!"

"Fact. It is not going to be flavored with rootbeer, toothwash,
condensed milk or russet polish; it is going to be the genuine,
satisfaction guaranteed, or you get your money back."

"With beer?"

"Exactly."

"Yes, it is!"

"It is."

"Where'll you get it?"

"I have ways."

"Oh," said the Tennessee Shad sarcastically, "this is one of your
real, sporting-life parties, is it?"

Stover disdained to answer.

"Is that bunch of slums going to be here?"

"Are you referring to my friends?" said Stover.

"I am," said the Tennessee Shad, "and all I ask while this feast of
bacchanalian orgies is going on, is that _I_ be allowed to sleep."

At eleven o'clock Stover, holding his shoes in his hand, went down the
stairs to meet Slops in Fatty Harris' room and thence into the
outlawed night. They stole over the crinkling snow, burying their
noses in their sweaters, until, having climbed several fences, they
arrived behind a shed of particularly cavernous appearance.

"Make the signal," said Slops, sheltering himself behind Stover.

Blinky appeared like a monster of the night.

"Hist, Blinky, O. K.?" said Slops, who, having his shoulder to Dink's
recovered his sporting manner. "Got the booze?"

"I got it," said Blinky in husky accents, with his hand behind his
back. "What's youse got?"

"The cash is here all right. How many bots did you bring?"

Blinky slowly brought forward one bottle.

"What, only one?" said Slops the bacchanalian, in dismay.

"All's left," said Blinky, with a double meaning.

"How much?"

"One dollar."

"What! You robber!"

"Take it or leave it--don't care," said Blinky, who sat down and
hugged the bottle to him like a baby.

They paid the extortion and slunk back.

"We'll have to cook up a story," said Dink.

"Sure!"

"Still, it's beer."

"It certainly is!"

"It's expulsion if we're caught."

"And a penal offense, don't forget that!"

Somewhat consoled by this delightful thought they cautiously tapped on
Fatty Harris' window and, removing their boots, tiptoed upstairs like
anarchists with a price on their heads.

In Stover's room three more desperate characters were waiting about
the chafing dish, Fatty Harris, Slush Randolph and Pee-wee Norris, all
determined on a life of crime--but all slightly nervous.

The Tennessee Shad, rolled into a ball on his bed, was venting his
scorn with an occasional snore.

Stover held up the lonely bottle.

"Is that all?" exclaimed the three in indignant whispers.

"All, and mighty lucky to get that," said Dink valiantly. "We were
chased by the constable, terrific time, pounced on us, desperate
struggle, just got away with our skins."

At this a distinct snort was heard from the direction of the Tennessee
Shad's bed.

"I say, isn't it rather--rather dangerous?" said Pee-wee Norris, with
his ears horribly strained.

"What of it?"

"Suppose he goes to the Doctor?"

"We'll have to take the risk."

"I say, though, let's be quick about it."

An uncongenial chill began to pervade the room. Fatty Harris, as
master cook, visibly hastened the operations.

The Tennessee Shad was now heard to say in a mumbled jumble:

"Hurrah for crime! Never say die, boys--dead game sports--give us a
drink, bartender!"

The revelers stood at the bed looking wrathfully down at the cynic,
who snored heavily and said drowsily:

"Talks in his sleep, he talks in his sleep, poor old Pol!"

"Don't pay any attention to him," said Stover angrily. "He's a cheap
wit. What are you doing at the door, Pee-wee?"

"I'm listening," said Norris, turning guiltily.

"You're afraid!"

"I'm not; only let's hurry it up."

Fatty Harris, watching the swirling yellow depths of the rabbit with
evident anxiety, emptied a third of the beer into it and held out the
bottle, saying:

"Here, sports, fill up the glasses with the good old liquor."

When the three glasses and two toothmugs had received their exact
portion of the bitter stuff, which had been allowed to foam copiously
in order to eke out, the five desperadoes solemnly touched glasses and
Slops Barnett, who had visited in Princeton, led them in that
whispered toast that is the acme of devilment:

  "_Then stand by your glasses steady,_
    _This world is a world full of lies._
  _Then here's to the dead already dead,_
    _And here's to the next man who dies!"_

It was terrific. Stover, quite moved, looked about the circle, thought
that Pee-wee looked the nearest to the earthworm and repeated
solemnly:

"To the next man who dies."

At this moment the Tennessee Shad was heard derisively intoning:

  "_Ring around a rosie,
  Pocket full of posie.
  Oats, peas, beans and barley grows.
  Open the ring and take her in
  And kiss her when you get her in!_"

They paid no heed. They felt too acutely the solemnity of life and the
fleeting hour of pleasure to be deterred by even the lathery aspect of
their own faces, which emerged from the suds of the beer ready for the
barber.

"Dish out the bunny," said Slops, putting down his mug with a reckless
look.

Suddenly there came an impressive knock and the voice of Mr. Bundy
saying:

"Open the door, Stover!"

Having made preparation of the subject-matter of the examination, the
next step is to prepare yourself physically for the trying
ordeal, for it is well known that the mind acts more ably under
physically healthful conditions.

Go to the examination-room with your body rested after a good night's
sleep.

Eat sparingly before the examination, for mental processes are
likely to be clogged if too heavy food is taken.

Having reached the examination-room, there are a number of
considerations that are requisite for success.

Some of the advice here given may seem to be superfluous but if you
had ever corrected examination papers you would see the need of
it all.

Let your first step consist of a preliminary survey of the examination
questions; read them all over slowly and thoughtfully in order to
discover the extent of the task set before you.

A striking thing is accomplished by this preliminary reading of the
questions.

It seems as though during the examination period the knowledge relating
to the different questions assembles itself, and while you are
focusing your attention upon the answer to one question, the answers
to the other questions are formulating themselves in your mind.
It is a semi-conscious operation, akin to the "unconscious learning"
discussed in the chapter on memory.

In order to take advantage of it, it is necessary to have the
questions in mind as soon as possible; then it will be found that
relevant associations will form and will come to the surface when you
reach the particular questions.

During the examination when some of these associations come into
consciousness ahead of time, it is often wise to digress from the
question in hand long enough to jot them down.

By all means preserve them, for if you do not write them down
they may leave you and be lost.

Sometimes very brilliant ideas come in flashes, and inasmuch as
they are so fleeting, it is wise to grasp them and fix them while
they are fresh.

In writing the examination, be sure you read every question
carefully.

Each question has a definite point; look for it, and do not start
answering until you are sure you have found it.

Discover the implications of each question; canvass its possible
interpretations, and if it is at all ambiguous seek light from the
instructor if he is willing to make any further comment.

It is well to have scratch paper handy and make outlines for your
answers to long questions.

It is a good plan, also, when dealing with long questions, to watch
the time carefully, for there is danger that you will spend too
much time upon some question to the detriment of others equally
important, though shorter.

One error which students often commit in taking examinations is to
waste time in dreaming.

As they come upon a difficult question they sit back and wait for
the answer to come to them.

This is the wrong plan.
The secret of freedom of ideas lies in activity.

Therefore, at such times, keep active, so that the associative
processes will operate freely.

Stimulate brain activity by the method suggested in Chapter X,
namely, by means of muscular activity. Instead of idly waiting for
flashes of inspiration, begin to write. You may not be able to
write directly upon the point at issue, but you can write something
about it, and as you begin to explore and to express your meagre
fund of knowledge, one idea will call up another and soon the correct
answer will appear.

After you have prepared yourself to the extent of your ability,
you should maintain toward the examination an attitude of
confidence.
Believe firmly that you will pass the examination. Make strong
suggestions to yourself, affirming positively that you have the
requisite amount of information and the ability to express it
coherently and forcefully.

Fortified by the consciousness of faithful application throughout
the work of a course, reinforced by a thorough, well-planned review,
and with a firm conviction in the strength of your own powers, you
may approach your examinations with comparative ease and with good
chances of passing them creditably.

READINGS AND EXERCISE
Readings:

Adams (1) Chapter X.

Dearborn (2) Chapter II.

Exercise I.

Make a schedule of your examinations for the next examination week.

Show exactly what preparatory steps you will take (a) before coming
to the examination room, (6) after entering it.

CHAPTER XV

BODILY CONDITIONS FOR EFFECTIVE STUDY
It is a truism to say that mental ability is affected by bodily
conditions.

A common complaint of students is that they cannot study because of
a headache, or they fail in class because of loss of sleep.

So patent is the interrelation between bodily condition and study
that we cannot consider our discussion of study problems complete
without recognition of the topic.

We shall group our discussions about three of the most important
physical activities, eating, sleeping and exercising.

These make up the greater part of our daily activities and if they
are properly regulated our study is likely to be effective.

FOOD.

--It is generally agreed that the main function of food is to repair
the tissues of the body.

Other effects are present, such as pleasure and sociability, but
its chief benefit is reparative, so we may well regard the subject
from a strictly utilitarian standpoint and inquire how we may produce
the highest efficiency from our eating.

  Some of the important questions about
  eating are, how much to eat, what kind of food to eat, when to
eat, what are the most favorable conditions for eating?

The quantity of food to be taken varies with the demands of the
individual appetite and the individual powers of absorption.

In general, one who is engaged in physical labor needs more, because
of increased appetite and increased waste of tissues.

So a farm-hand needs more food than a college student, whose work
is mostly indoors and sedentary. Much has been said recently about
the ills of overeating.
One of the most enthusiastic defenders of a decreased diet is
Mr.

Horace Fletcher, who, by the practice of protracted mastication,
"contrives to satisfy the appetite while taking an exceptionally small
amount of food. Salivary digestion is favored and the mechanical
subdivision of the food is carried to an extreme point. Remarkably
complete digestion and absorption follow. By faithfully
pursuing this system Mr. Fletcher has vastly bettered his general
health, and is a rare example of muscular and mental power for a
man above sixty years of age.

He is a vigorous pedestrian and mountain-climber and holds surprising
records for endurance tests in the gymnasium.

"The chief gain observed in his case, as in others which are more or
less parallel, is the acquiring of immunity to fatigue, both muscular
and central. It is not claimed that the sparing diet confers great
strength for momentary efforts--'explosive strength,' as the term
goes--but that moderate muscular contractions may be repeated many
times with far less discomfort than before.

The inference appears to be that the subject who eats more than is
best has in his circulation and his tissues by-products which
act like the muscular waste which is normally responsible for fatigue.
According to this conception he is never really fresh for his task,
but is obliged to start with a handicap. When he reduces his diet the
cells and fluids of his body free themselves of these by-products
and he realizes a capacity quite unguessed in the past.

"The same assumption explains the fact mentioned by Mr. Fletcher, that
the hours of sleep can be reduced decidedly when the diet is cut
down.
It would seem as though a part of our sleep might often be due to
avoidable auto-intoxication. If one can shorten his nightly sleep
without feeling the worse for it this is an important gain."
But the amount of food is probably not so important as the kind.

Foods containing much starch, as potatoes and rice, may ordinarily be
taken in greater quantities than foods containing much protein,
such as meats and nuts.

So our problem is not so much concerned with quantity as with the
choice of kinds of food.

Probably the most favorable distribution of foods for students is
a predominance of fruits, coarse cereals, starch and sugar and less
prominence to meats.

Do not begin the day's study on a breakfast of cakes.

They are a heavy tax upon the digestive powers and their nutritive
value is low.

The mid-day meal is also a crucial factor in determining the
efficiency of afternoon study, and many students almost completely
incapacitate themselves for afternoon work by a too-heavy noon meal.

Frequently an afternoon course is rendered quite valueless because
the student drowses through the lecture soddened by a heavy lunch.

One way of overcoming this difficulty is by dispensing with the
mid-day meal; another way is to drink a small amount of coffee,
which frequently keeps people awake; but these devices are not to
be universally recommended.

The heavy meal of a student may well come at evening. It should
consist of a varied assortment of foods with some liquids, preferably
clear soup, milk and water. Meat also forms a substantial part of this
meal, though ordinarily it should not be taken more than once a day.
Much is heard nowadays about the dangers of excessive meat-eating and
the objections are well-founded in the case of brain-workers.

The undesirable effects are "an unprofitable spurring of the
metabolism-- more particularly objectionable in warm weather--and
the menace of auto-intoxication."

Too much protein, found in meat, lays a burden upon the liver and
kidneys and when the burden is too great, wastes, which cannot be
taken care of, gather and poison the blood, giving rise to that
feeling of being "tired all over" which is so inimical to mental
and physical exertion.

When meat is eaten, care should be taken to choose right kinds.

"Some kinds of meat are well known to occasion indigestion.

Pork and veal are particularly feared.

While we may not know the reason why these foods so often disagree
with people, it seems probable that texture is an important
consideration.

In both these meats the fibre is fine, and fat is intimately mingled
with the lean. A close blending of fat with nitrogenous matter appears
to give a fabric which is hard to digest. The same principle is illustrated
by fat-soaked fried foods. Under the cover of the fat, thorough-going
bacterial decomposition of the proteins may be accomplished with
the final release of highly poisonous products. Attacks of acute
indigestion resulting from this cause are much like the so-called
ptomaine poisoning."
Much of the benefit of meat may be secured from other foods. Fat, for
example, may be obtained from milk and butter freed from the
objectionable qualities of the meat-fibre. In this connection it is
important to call attention to the use of fried fat. Avoid fat that
is mixed with starch particles in such foods as fried potatoes
and pie-crust.

The conditions during meals should always be as pleasant as possible.

This refers both to physical surroundings and mental condition.
"The processes occurring in the alimentary canal are greatly
subject to influences radiating from the brain.

It is especially striking that both the movements of the stomach and the
secretion of the gastric juice may be inhibited as a result of
disturbing circumstances.
Intestinal movements may be modified in similar fashion."
"Cannon has collected various instances of the suspension of digestion
in consequence of disagreeable experiences, and it would be easy
for almost anyone to add to his list.

He tells us, for example, of the case of a woman whose stomach was
emptied under the direction of a specialist in order to ascertain
the degree of digestion undergone by a prescribed breakfast.

The dinner of the night before was recovered and was found almost
unaltered. Inquiry led to the fact that the woman had passed a night
of intense agitation as the result of misconduct on the part of her
husband. People who are seasick some hours after a meal vomit undigested
food. Apprehension of being sick has probably inhibited the gastric
activities.

"Just as a single occasion of painful emotion may lead to a passing
digestive disturbance, so continued mental depression, worry, or grief
may permanently impair the working of the (alimentary) tract and
undermine the vigor and capacity of the sufferer.

Homesickness is not to be regarded lightly as a cause of malnutrition.
Companionship is a powerful promoter of assimilation. The attractive
serving of food, a pleasant room, and good ventilation are of high
importance.

The lack of these, so commonly faced by the lonely student or the
young man making a start in a strange city, may be to some extent
counteracted by the cultivation of optimism and the mental discipline
which makes it possible to detach one's self from sordid surroundings."

Almost as important as eating is drinking, for liquids constitute
the "largest item in the income" of the body.

Free drinking is recommended by physiologists, the beneficial results
being, "the avoidance of constipation, and the promotion of the
elimination of dissolved waste by the kidneys and possibly the
liver."

In regard to the use of water with meals, a point upon which
emphatic cautions were formerly offered, recent experiments have
failed to show any bad effects from this, and the advice is now
given to drink "all the water that one chooses with meals."

Caution should be observed, however, about introducing hot and cold
liquids into the stomach in quick succession.

Other liquids have been much discussed by dietitians, especially
tea and coffee.

"These beverages owe what limited food value they have to the cream
and sugar usually mixed with them.

They give pleasure by their aroma, but they are given a peculiar
position among articles of diet by the presence in them of the
compound caffein, which is distinctly a drug.

It is a stimulant to the heart, the kidneys, and the central nervous
system."
"Individual susceptibility to the action of caffein varies greatly.

Where one person notices little or no reaction after a cup
of coffee, another is exhilarated to a marked degree and hours
later may find himself lying sleepless with tense or trembling
muscles, a dry, burning skin, and a mind feverishly active.

Often it is found that a more protracted disturbance follows the taking
of coffee with cream than is caused by black coffee.

"It is too much to claim that the use of tea and coffee is altogether
to be condemned. Many people, nevertheless, are better without them.

For all who find themselves strongly stimulated it is the part
of wisdom to limit the enjoyment of these decoctions to real
emergencies when uncommon demands are made upon the endurance and
when for a time hygienic considerations have to be ignored.

If young people will postpone the formation of the habit they will
have one more resource when the pressure of mature life becomes
severe."

Before concluding this discussion a word might be added concerning
the relation between fasting and mental activity.

Prolonged abstinence from food frequently results in highly sharpened
intellectual powers.

Numerous examples of this are found in the literature of history
and biography; many actors, speakers and singers habitually fast
before public performances.

There are some disadvantages to fasting, especially loss of weight
and weakness, but when done under the direction of a physician,
fasting has been known to produce very beneficial effects.

It is mentioned here because it has such marked effects in speeding
up the mental processes and clearing the mind; and the well-nourished
student may find the practice a source of mental strength during
times of stress such as examinations.

SLEEP.--"About one-third of an average human life is passed in
the familiar and yet mysterious state which we call sleep.

From one point of view this seems a large inroad upon the period in
which our consciousness has its exercise; a subtraction of twenty-five
years from the life of one who lives to be seventy-five.

Yet we know that the efficiency and comfort of the individual demand
the surrender of all this precious time.

It has often been said that sleep is a more imperative necessity
than food, and the claim seems to be well founded."

It is quite likely that some students indulge in too much sleep.

This may sometimes be due to laziness, but frequently it is due to
actual intoxication, from an excess of food which results in the
presence of poisonous "narcotizing substances absorbed from the
burdened intestine".

This theory is rendered tenable by the fact that when the diet is
reduced the hours of sleep may be reduced.

If one is in good health, it seems right to expect that one should
be able to arise gladly and briskly upon awaking.

By all means do not indulge yourself in long periods of lying in
bed after a good night's rest.

If we examine the physical and physiological conditions of sleep
we shall better understand its hygiene.

Stover languidly extended his head and beheld Tough McCarty.

"Hello there, Dink."

"Hello yourself."

"Come over to the Woodhull and meet my family."

"What!" said Dink in consternation.

"They're over for the game. Hurry up now and help me out!"

Dink tried frantically to call him back, but Tough, as though to shut
off a refusal, disappeared around the house. Dink returned to the room
in a rage.

"What's the matter?" said the Tennessee Shad.

"I've got to go over and meet a lot of women," said Dink in disgust.
"Confound Tough McCarty! That's a rotten trick to play on me. I'll
wring his neck!"

"Go on now, make yourself beautiful!" said the Tennessee Shad,
delighted. "Remember the whole school will be watching you."

"Shut up!" said Dink savagely, making the grand toilet, which
consisted in putting on a high collar, exchanging his belt for a pair
of suspenders and donning a pair of patent-leathers. "The place for
women is at home! It's an outrage!"

He tied his necktie with a vicious lunge, ran the comb once through
the tangled hair, glanced at his hands, decided that they would pass
muster, slapped on his hat and went out, kicking the door open.

At the Woodhull, Tough hailed him from his window. Dink went up, bored
and rebellious. The door opened, he found himself in Tough McCarty's
room in the vortex of a crowd of fellow-sufferers. Over by the
window-seat two fluffy figures, with skirts and hats on, were seated.
He shook hands with both; one was Mrs. McCarty, the other was the
daughter, he wasn't quite sure which. He said something about the
delight which the meeting afforded him, and, gravitating into a
corner, fell upon Butsey White, with whom he gravely shook hands.

"Isn't this awful?" said Butsey in a confidential whisper.

"Frightful!"

"What the deuce's got into Tough?"

"It's a rotten trick!"

"Let's hook it."

"All right. Slide toward the door."

But at this moment, when deliverance seemed near, Tough bore down and,
taking Stover by the arm, drew him aside.

"I say, stick by me on this, old man," he said desperately. "Take 'em
to the game with me, will you?"

"To the game!" cried Dink in horror. "Oh, Tough, come now, I say, I'm
no fusser. I'm tongue-tied and pigeon-toed. Oh, I say, old man, do get
some one else!"

But as Tough McCarty kept a firm grip on the lapel of his coat Dink
suddenly found himself, with the departure of the other guests, a
helpless captive. The first painful scraps of conversation passed in a
blur. Before he knew it he was crossing the campus, actually walking,
in full view of the school, at the side of Miss McCarty.

Her unconsciousness was paralyzing, perfectly paralyzing! Dink,
struggling for a word in the vast desert of his brain, was overwhelmed
with the ease with which his companion ran on. He stole a glance under
the floating azure veil and decided, from the way the brilliant blue
parasol swung from her hand, that she must be a woman of the
world--thirty, at least.

He extracted his hands precipitately from the trousers pockets in
which they had been plunged and buttoned the last button of his coat.
Somehow, his hands seemed to wander all over his anatomy, like jibs
that had broken loose. He tried to clasp them behind his back, like
the Doctor, or to insert one between the first and second button of
his coat, the characteristic pose of the great Corsican, according to
his history. For a moment he found relief by slipping them, English
fashion, into his coat pockets; but at the thought of being detected
thus by the Tennessee Shad he withdrew them as though he had struck a
hornet's nest.

The school, meanwhile, had gamboled past, all snickering, of course,
at his predicament. In this state of utter misery he arrived at last
at the field, where, to his amazement, quite a group of Fifth-Formers
came up and surrounded Miss McCarty, chattering in the most
bewildering manner. Dink seized the opportunity to drop back, draw a
long sigh, reach madly behind for his necktie, which had climbed
perilously near the edge of his collar, and shoot back his cuffs. He
saw the Tennessee Shad and Dennis de Boru grinning at him from the
crowd, and showed them his fist with a threatening gesture.

Then the game began and he was seated by Miss McCarty, unutterably
relieved that the tension of the contest had diverted the entire
attention of the school from his particular sufferings.

The excitement of the play for the first time gave him an opportunity
to study his companion. His first estimate was undoubtedly correct;
she was plainly a woman of the world. No one else could sit at such
perfect ease, the cynosure of so many eyes. Her dress was some
wonderful creation, from Paris, no doubt, that rustled with an
alluring sound and gave forth a pleasant perfume.

The more he looked the more his eye approved. She was quite
unusual--quite. She had style--a very impressive style. He had never
before remembered any one who held herself quite so well, or whose
head carried itself so regally. There was something Spanish, too,
about her black hair and eyes and the flush of red in her cheeks.

Having perceived all this Dink began to recover from his panic and,
with a desire to wipe out his past awkwardness, began busily to search
for some subject with which gracefully to open up the conversation.

At that moment his eye fell upon his boot carelessly displayed and, to
his horror, beheld there a gaping crack. This discovery drove all
desire for conversation at once out of his head. By a covert movement
he drew the offending shoe up under the shadow of the other.

"You hate this, don't you?" said a laughing voice.

He turned, blushing, to find Miss McCarty's dark eyes alive with
amusement.

"Oh, now, I say, really----" he began.

"Of course, you loathe being dragged out this way," she said, cutting
in. "Confess!"

Dink began to laugh guiltily.

"That's better," said Miss McCarty approvingly. "Now we shall get on
better."

"How did you know?" said Dink, immensely mystified.

Miss McCarty wisely withheld this information, and before he knew it
Dink was in the midst of a conversation, all his embarrassment forgot.
The game ended--it had never been really important--and Dink found
himself, actually to his regret, moving toward the Lodge.

There, as he was saying good-by with a Chesterfieldian air, Tough
plucked him by the sleeve.

"I say, Dink, old man," he said doubtfully, "I'd like you to come over
and grub with us. But I don't want to haul you over, you know----"

"My dear boy, I should love to!" said Dink, squeezing his arm eagerly.

"Honest?"

"Straight goods!"

"Bully for you!"

He had three-quarters of an hour to dress before dinner. He went to
his room at a gallop, upsetting Beekstein and Gumbo on his volcanic
way upward. Then for half an hour the Kennedy was thrown into a
turmoil as the half-clothed figure of Dink Stover flitted from room to
room, burrowed into closets, ransacked bureaus and departed, bearing
off the choicest articles of wearing apparel. Meanwhile, the corridors
resounded with such unintelligible cries as these:

"Who's got a collar, fourteen and a half?"

"Darn you, Dink, bring back my pants!"

"Who swiped my blue coat?"

"Who's been pulling my things to pieces?"

"Hi there, bring back my shoes!"

"Dinged if he hasn't gone off with my cuff buttons, too!"

"Oh you robber!"

"Body snatcher!"

"Dink, the fusser!"

"Who'd have believed it!"

Meanwhile, Dink, returning to his room laden with the spoils of the
house, proceeded to adorn himself on the principle of selection,
discarding the Gutter Pup's trousers for the gala breeches of the
Tennessee Shad, donning the braided cutaway of Lovely Mead's in
preference to an affair of Slush Randolph's which was too tight in the
chest.

The Tennessee Shad, the Gutter Pup and Dennis de Brian de Boru watched
the proceedings, brownie fashion, across the transom, volunteering
advice.

"Why, look at Dink wash!"

"It's a regular annual, isn't it?"

"Look out for my pants!"

"I say, Dink, your theory's wrong. You want to begin by parting your
hair--soak it into place, you know."

Stover, struck by this expert advice, approached the mirror and seized
his comb and brush with determination. But the liberties of a
rebellious people, unmolested for sixteen years, were not to be
suddenly abolished. The more he brushed the more the indignant locks
rose up in revolt. He broke the comb and threw it down angrily.

"Wet your hair," said the Tennessee Shad.

"Soak it in water," said the Gutter Pup.

"Soak it in witch-hazel," said Dennis. "It will make it more
fragrant."

Dink hesitated:

"Won't it smell too much?"

"Naw. It evaporates."

Stover seized the bottle and inundated his head, made an exact part in
the middle and drew the sides back in the fashion of pigeon wings.

"Now clap on a dicer," said the Gutter Pup approvingly, "and she'll
come up and feed from your hand."

"Are you really in love?" said Dennis softly.

Stover, ignoring all comments, tied a white satin four-in-hand with
forget-me-not embossings, which had struck his fancy in Fatty Harris'
room, and inserted a stick-pin of Finnegan's.

"You ought to have a colored handkerchief to stick in your breast
pocket," said the Gutter Pup, who began to yield to the excitement.

"Up his sleeve is more English, don't you know," said Dennis.

Stover stood brazenly before the mirror, looking himself over. The
scrubbing he had inflicted on his face had left red, shining spots in
prominent places, while his hair, slicked back and plastered down,
gave him somewhat the look of an Italian barber on a Sunday off. He
felt the general glistening effect without, in his innocence, knowing
the remedy.

"Dink, you are bee-oo-tiful!" said Dennis.

"Be careful how you sit down," said the Tennessee Shad, thinking of
the trousers.

"How are the shoes?" asked the Gutter Pup solicitously.

"Tight as mischief," said Dink, with a wry face.

"Walk on your heels."

Stover, with a last deprecating glance, opened the door and departed,
amid cheers from the contributing committee.

When he arrived at the Lodge the dusky waitress who opened the door
started back, as he dropped his hat, and sniffed the air. He went into
the parlor, spoiling his carefully-planned entrance by tripping over
the rug.

"Heavens!" said Tough, "what a smell of witch-hazel. Why, it's Dink.
What have you been doing?"

Stover felt the temperature rise to boiling.

"We had a bit of a shindy," he said desperately, trying to give it a
tragic accent, "and I bumped my head."

"Well, you look like a skinned rat," said Tough to put him thoroughly
at his ease.

The angel, however, came to his rescue with solicitous inquiries and
with such a heavenly look that Stover only regretted that he could not
appear completely done up in bandages.

They went in to dinner, where Dink was so overwhelmed by the vision
of Miss McCarty in all her transcendent charms that the effort of
swallowing became a painful physical operation.

Afterward, Tough and his mother went over to Foundation House for a
visit with the Doctor, and Dink found himself actually alone,
escorting Miss McCarty about the grounds in the favoring dusk of the
fast-closing twilight.

"Let's go toward the Green House," she said. "Will you take my cloak?"

The cloak settled the perplexing question of the hands. He wondered
uneasily why she chose that particular direction.

"Are you sure you want to go there?" he said.

"Quite," she said. "I want to see the exact spot where the historic
fight took place."

Stover moved uneasily.

"Dear me, what's the matter?"

"I never go there. I hate the place."

"Why?"

"I was miserable there," said Dink abruptly. "Hasn't Tough told you
about it?"

"Tell me yourself," said the angelic voice.

Stover felt on the instant the most overpowering desire to confide his
whole life's history, and being under the influence of a genuine
emotion as well as aided by the obliterating hour, he began straight
forward to relate the story of his months of Coventry in tense,
direct sentences, without pausing to calculate either their vividness
or their effect. Once started, he withheld nothing, neither the agony
of his pride nor the utter hopelessness of that isolation. Once or
twice he hesitated, blurting out:

"I say, does this bore you?"

And each time she answered quickly:

"No, no--go on."

They went back in the fallen night to the campus, and there he pointed
out the spot where he had stood and listened to the singing on the
Esplanade and made up his mind to return. All at once, his story ended
and he perceived, to his utter confusion, that he had been pouring out
his heart to some one whose face he couldn't see, some one who was
probably smiling at his impetuous confidence, some one whom he had met
only a few hours before.

"Oh, I say," he said in horror, "you must think me an awful fool to go
on like this."

"No."

"You made me tell you, you know," he said miserably, wondering what
she could think of him. "I never talked like this before--to any one.
I don't know what made me confide in you."

This was untrue, for he knew perfectly well what had led him to speak.
So did she and, knowing full well what was working in the tense,
awkward boy beside her, she had no feeling of offense, being at an age
when such tributes, when genuine, are valued, not scorned.

"I can just feel how you felt--poor boy," she said, perhaps not
entirely innocent of the effect of her words. "But then, you have won
out, haven't you?"

"I suppose I have," said Stover, almost suffocated by the gentleness
of her voice.

"Charlie's told me all about the rest," she said. "Every one looks up
to you now--it's quite a romance, isn't it?"

He was delighted that she saw it thus, secretly wondering if she
really knew every point that could be urged in his favor.

"I suppose I'll kick myself all over the lot to-morrow," he said,
choosing to be lugubrious.

"Why?" she said, stopping in surprise.

"For talking as I've done."

"You don't regret it?" she said softly, laying her hand on his arm.

Stover drew a long breath--a difficult one.

"No, you bet I don't," he said abruptly. "I'd tell you anything!"

"Come," she said, smiling to herself, "we must go back--but it's so
fascinating here, isn't it?"

He thought he had offended her and was in a panic.

"I say, you did not understand what I meant."

"Oh, yes, I did."

"You're not offended?"

"Not at all."

This answer left Stover in such a state of bewilderment that all
speech expired. What did she mean by that? Did she really understand
or not?

They walked a little way in silence, watching the lights that fell in
long lines across the campus, hearing through the soft night the
tinkling of mandolins and the thrumming of guitars, a vibrant,
feverish life that suddenly seemed unreal to him. They were fast
approaching the Lodge. A sudden fear came to him that she would go
without understanding what the one, the only night had been in his
life.

"I say, Miss McCarty," he began desperately.

"Yes."

"I wish I could tell you----"

"What?"

"I wish I could tell you just what a privilege it's been to meet you."

"Oh, that's very nice."

He felt he had failed. He had not expressed himself well. She did not
understand.

"I shall never forget it," he said, plunging ahead.

She stopped a little guiltily and looked at him.

"You queer boy," she said, too pleasantly moved to be severe. "You
queer, romantic boy! Why, of course you're going to visit us this
summer, and we're going to be good chums, aren't we?"

He did not answer.

"Aren't we?" she repeated, amused at a situation that was not entirely
strange.

"No!" he said abruptly, amazed at his own audacity; and with an
impulse that he had not suspected he closed the conversation and led
the way to the Lodge.

When at last he and Tough were homeward bound he felt he should die if
he did not then and there learn certain things. So he began with
Machiavellian adroitness:

"I say, Tough, what a splendid mother you've got. I didn't get half a
chance to talk to her. I say, how long will she be here?"

"They're going over to Princeton first thing in the morning," said
Tough, who was secretly relieved.

A button on the borrowed vest popped with Stover's emotion.

"How did you get on with Sis?"

"First rate. She's--she's awful sensible," said Dink.

"Oh, yes, I suppose so."

"I say," said Dink, seeing that he made no progress, "she's been all
around--had lots of experience, hasn't she?"

"Oh, she's bounded about a bit."

"Still, she doesn't seem much older than you," said Dink craftily.

"Sis--oh, she's a bit older."

"About twenty-two, I should say," said Dink hopefully.

"Twenty-four, my boy," said Tough unfeelingly. "But I say, don't give
it away; she'd bite and scratch me all over the map for telling."

Stover left him without daring to ask any more questions--he knew what
he wanted to know. He could not go to his room, he could not face the
Tennessee Shad, possessor of the trousers. He wanted to be alone--to
wander over the unseen earth, to gulp in the gentle air in long,
feverish breaths, to think over what she had said, to grow hot and
cold at the thought of his daring, to reconstruct the world of
yesterday and organize the new.

He went to the back of chapel and sat down on the cool steps, under
the impenetrable clouds of the night.

"She's twenty-four, only twenty-four," he said to himself. "I'm
sixteen, almost seventeen--that's only seven years' difference."


XXII


When Stover awoke the next morning it was to the light of the blushing
day. He thought of the events of the night before and sprang up in
horror. What had he been thinking of? He had made an ass of himself, a
complete, egregious ass. What had possessed him? He looked at himself
in the glass and his heart sunk at the thought of what she must be
thinking. He was glad she was going. He did not want to see her again.
He would never visit Tough McCarty. Thank Heaven it was daylight again
and he had recovered his senses.

Indignant at every one, himself most of all, he went to chapel and to
recitations, profoundly thankful that he would not have to face her in
the mocking light of the day. That he never could have done, never,
never!

As he left second recitation Tough McCarty joined him.

"I say, Dink, they both wanted to be remembered to you, and here's a
note from Sis."

"A note?"

"Here it is."

Stover stood staring at a violet envelope, inscribed in large,
flowing letters: "Mr. John H. Stover."

Then he put it in his pocket hastily and went to his room. Luckily the
Tennessee Shad was poaching in the village. He locked the door,
secured the transom and drew out the note. It was sealed with a crest
and perfumed with a heavenly scent. He held it in his hand a long
while, convulsively, and then broke the seal with an awkward finger
and read:

  _Dear Mr. Stover_: Just a word to thank you for being my
  faithful cavalier. Don't forget that you are to pay us a
  good, long visit this summer, and that we are to become
  the best of chums.

    Your very good _friend_,
      JOSEPHINE MCCARTY.

P. S. Don't dare to "kick yourself about the place,"
whatever that may mean.

When Dink had read this through once he immediately began it again.
The second reading left him more bewildered than ever. It was the
first time he had come in contact with a manifestation of the workings
of the feminine mind. What did she intend him to understand?

"I'll read it again," he said, perching on the back of a chair. "Dear
Mr. Stover!" He stopped and considered. "My dear Mr. Stover--Dear Mr.
Stover--well, that's all right. But what the deuce does she mean by
'faithful cavalier'--I wonder now, I wonder. She wants me to visit
her--she can't be offended then. 'Your very good friend,' underlined
twice, that sounds as though she wanted to warn me. Undoubtedly I made
a fool of myself and this is her angelic way of letting me down.
'Friend'--underlined twice--of course that's it. What a blooming,
sentimental, moon-struck jay I was. Gee, I could kick myself to
Jericho and back!" But here his eye fell on the postscript and his jaw
dropped. "Now how did she guess that? That sounds different from the
rest, as though--as though she understood."

He went to the window frowning, and then to the mirror, with a new
interest in this new Mr. John H. Stover who received perplexing notes
on scented paper.

"I must get some decent collars," he said pensively. "How the deuce
does Lovely Mead keep his tie tight--mine's always slipping down,
showing the stud." He changed his collar, having detected a smirch,
and tried the effect of parting his hair on the side, like Garry
Cockrell.

"She's a wonderful woman--wonderful," he said softly, taking up the
letter again. "What eyes! Reminds me of Lorna Doone. Josephine--so
that's her name, Josephine--it's a beautiful name. I wish the deuce I
knew just what she did mean by this!"

By nightfall he had written a dozen answers which had been torn up in
a panic as soon as written. Finally, he determined that the craftiest
way would be to send her his remembrances by Tough--that would express
everything as well as show her that he could be both discreet and
dignified.

In the afternoon he added a dozen extra high collars to his wardrobe
and examined hesitatingly the counter of Gent's Bon-Ton socks, spring
styles, displayed at Bill Appleby's.

The collars, the latest cut, he tried on surreptitiously. They were
uncomfortable and projected into his chin, but there was no question
of the superior effect. Suddenly a new element in the school came to
his notice--fellows like Lovely Mead, Jock Hasbrouk and Dudy Rankin,
who wore tailor-made clothes, rainbow cravats, who always looked
immaculate and whose trousers never bagged at the knees.

No sooner was this borne in upon him than he was appalled at the state
of his wardrobe. He had outgrown everything. Everything he had bagged
at the elbows as well as the knees. His neckties were frazzled and
his socks were all earthy-browns and oat-meal grays.

The nervous current thus generated is conducted over long nerve fibers,
through the spinal cord to the brain where it is received and we
experience a sensation. Thence it pushes on, over association neurones
in the brain to motor neurones, over which it passes down the
spinal cord again to muscles, and ends in some movement.

In the pathway which it traverses it leaves its impression, and, thereafter,
when the first neurone is excited, the nervous current tends to
take the same pathway and to end in the same movement.

It should be emphasized that the nervous current, once started, always
tends to seek outlet in movement.

This is an extremely important feature of neural action, and, as
will be shown in another chapter, is a vital factor in study.

Movement may be started by the stimulation of a sense organ or by
an idea.

In the latter case it starts from regions in the brain without the
immediately preceding stimulation of a sense organ. Howsoever
it starts you may be sure that it seeks a way out, and prefers pathways
already traversed. Hence you see you are bound to have habits.
They will develop whether you wish them or not. Already you are "a
bundle of habits"; they manifest themselves in two ways--as habits
of action and habits of thought.

You illustrate the first every time you tie your shoes or sign your name.
To illustrate the second, I need only ask you to supply the end of
this sentence: Columbus discovered America in----. Speech reveals
many of these habits of thought. Certain phrases persist in the mind
as habits so that when the phrase is once begun, you proceed habitually
with the rest of it. When some one starts "in spite," your mind goes
on to think "of"; "more or" calls up "less." When I ask you what word
is called up by "black," you reply "white" according to the
principles of mental habit.

Your mind is arranged in such habitual patterns, and from these examples
you readily see that a large part of what you do and think during the
course of twenty-four hours is habitual. Twenty years hence you will
be even more bound by this overpowering despot.

Our acts our angels are, or good, or ill, Our constant shadows that walk
with us still.

Since you cannot avoid forming habits, how important it is that you seek
to form those that are useful and desirable. In acquiring them,
there are several general principles deducible from the facts of nervous
action. The first is: Guard the pathways leading to the brain.
Nerve tissue is impressible and everything that touches it leaves an
ineradicable trace.

You can control your habits to some extent, then, by observing caution
in permitting things to impress you. Many unfortunate habits of
study arise from neglect of this. The habit of using a "pony," for
example, arises when one permits oneself to depend upon a group of
English words in translating from a foreign language.

Nerve pathways should then be guarded with respect to _what_ enters.
They should also be guarded with respect to the _way_ things enter.
Remember, as the first pathway is cut, subsequent nervous currents will
be directed.

Consequently if you make a wrong pathway, you will have trouble undoing
it.

Another maxim which will obviously prevent undesirable pathways is,
go slowly at first. This is an important principle in all learning.

If, when trying to learn the date 1453, you carelessly impress it
first as 1435, you are likely to have trouble ever after in remembering
which is right, 1453 or 1435. As you value your intellectual salvation,
then, go slowly in making the first impression and be sure it is
right. The next rule is: Guard the exits of the nervous currents.
That is, watch the movements you make in response to impressions and
ideas. This is necessary because the nervous current pushes on past
obstructions, through areas in the brain, until it ends in some
form of movement, and in finding the way out, it seeks those pathways
that have been most frequently travelled.

In study, it usually takes the form of movements of speech or writing.
You will need to guard this part of the process just as you did the
incoming pathway You must see that the movement is made which you
wish to build into a habit. In learning the pronunciation
of a foreign word, for example, see that your first pronunciation of
it is absolutely right.

When learning to typewrite see that you always hit the right key during
the early trials. The point of exit of a nervous current is the point
also where precautions are to be taken in developing good form.

The path should be the shortest possible, involving only those
muscles that are absolutely necessary. This makes for economy of
effort.

The third general principle to be kept in mind is that habits are
most easily formed in youth, for this is the period when nerve
tissue is most easily impressed and modified.

With respect to habit formation, then, you see that youth is the
time when emphasis should be laid upon the formation of as many
useful habits as possible.

The world recognizes this to some extent and society is so organized
that the youth of the race are given leisure and protection so
that they may form useful habits.

The world asks nothing of you during the next four years except
that you develop yourself and form useful habits which will enable
you in later life to take your place as a useful and stable member
of society.

In addition to the principles just discussed, there are a number of
other maxims which have been laid down as guides in the formation
of new habits.

The first is, _make an assertion of will_.

Vow to yourself that you will form the habit, and keep that resolve ever
before you.

The second maxim is, _make an emphatic start._ Surround yourself with
every aid possible. Make it easy at first to perform the act and
difficult not to perform it. For example, if you desire to form
the habit of arising at six every morning, surround yourself with a
number of aids.

Buy an alarm clock, and tell some one of your decision. Such efforts
at the start "will give your new beginning such a momentum that the
temptation to break down will not occur as soon as it otherwise might;
and every day during which a breakdown is postponed adds to the chances
of its not occurring at all." Man has discovered the value of such
devices during the course of his long history, and has evolved
customs accordingly.

When men decide to swear off smoking, they choose the opening of
a new year when many other new things are being started; they
make solemn promises to themselves, to each other, and finally to
their friends. Such customs are precautions which help to bolster up
the determination at the time when extraordinary effort and determination
are required. In forming the habits incidental to college life,
take pains from the start to surround yourself with as many aids
as possible.

This will not constitute a confession of weakness. It is only a wise
and natural precaution which the whole experience of the race has
justified.

  The third maxim is, _never permit an
  exception to occur_.

Suppose you have a habit of saying "aint" which you wish to replace
with a habit of saying "isn't."

  If the habit is deeply rooted, you have worn a pathway in the brain
to a considerable depth, represented in the accompanying diagram
by the line _A X B_.

A |
X / \

  B C

Let us suppose that you have already started the new habit, and have
said the correct word ten times.

That means you have worn another pathway _A X C_ to a considerable depth.
During all this time, however, the old pathway is still open and at the
slightest provocation will attract the nervous current. Your
task is to deepen the new path so that the nervous current will flow
into it instead of the old. Now suppose you make an exception on some
occasion and allow the nervous current to travel over the old path.

This unfortunate exception breaks down the bridge which you had
constructed at _X_ from _A_ to _C_.

  But this is not the only result.

The nervous current, as it revisits the old path, deepens it more than
it was before, so the next time a similar situation arises, the
current seeks the old path with much greater readiness than before,
and vastly more effort is required to overcome it. Some one has likened
the effect of these exceptions to that produced when one drops
a ball of string that is partially wound.

By a single slip, more is undone than can be accomplished in a dozen
windings.

The fourth maxim is, _seize every opportunity to act upon your
resolution_. The reason for this will be understood better if
you keep in mind the fact, stated before, that nervous currents
once started, whether from a sense-organ or from a brain-center,
always tend to seek egress in movement.

These outgoing nervous currents leave an imprint upon the modifiable
nerve tissues as inevitably as do incoming impressions. Therefore,
if you wish your resolves to be firmly fixed, you should act upon
them speedily and often. "It is not in the moment of their forming,
but in the moment of their producing _motor effects_, that resolves
and aspirations communicate the new 'set' to the brain." "No
matter how full a reservoir of _maxims_ one may possess, and no
matter how good one's _sentiments_ may be, if one has not taken
advantage of every concrete opportunity to _act_, one's character
may remain entirely unaffected for the better." Particularly at time
of emotional excitement one makes resolves that are very good, and a
glow of fine feeling is present. Beware that these resolves do not
evaporate in mere feeling.

They should be crystallized in some form of action as soon as possible.
"Let the expression be the least thing in the world--speaking genially
to one's grandmother, or giving up one's seat in a ... car, if nothing
more heroic offers--but let it not fail to take place." Strictly speaking
you have not really completed a resolve until you have acted upon
it. You may determine to go without lunch, but you have
not consummated that resolve until you have permitted it to express
itself by carrying you past the door of the dining-room.

That is the crucial test which determines the strength of your resolve.
Many repetitions will be required before a pathway is worn deep enough
to be settled. Seize the very earliest opportunity to begin grooving
it out, and seize every other opportunity for deepening it.

After this view of the place in your life occupied by habit, you
readily see its far-reaching possibilities for welfare of body and mind.
Its most obvious, because most annoying, effects are on the
side of its disadvantages. Bad habits secure a grip upon us that we
are sometimes powerless to shake off.

True, this ineradicableness need have no terrors if we have formed good
habits. Indeed, as will be pointed out in the next paragraph, habit
may be a great asset. Nevertheless, it may work positive harm, or at
best, may lead to stagnation. The fixedness of habit tends to make us
move in ruts unless we exert continuous effort to learn new things. If
we permit ourselves to move in old grooves we cease to progress and
become "old fogy."

But the advantages of habit far outweigh its disadvantages. Habit helps
the individual to be consistent and helps people to know what to
expect from one.

It helps society to be stable, to incorporate within itself modes of
action conducive to the common good.

For example, the respect which we all have for the property of others
is a habit, and is so firmly intrenched that we should find ourselves
unable to steal if we wished to. Habit is thus a very desirable asset
and is truly called the "enormous fly-wheel of society."

A second advantage of habit is that it makes for accuracy.
Acts that have become habitualized are performed more accurately
than those not habitualized.

Movements such as those made in typewriting and piano-playing, when
measured in the psychological laboratory, are found to copy each
other with extreme fidelity.

The human body is a machine which may be adjusted to a high degree of
nicety, and habit is the mechanism by which this adjustment is
made.

A third advantage is that a stock of habits makes life easier.

"There is no more miserable human being than one in whom nothing is
habitual but indecision, for whom the lighting of every cigar, the
drinking of every cup, the time of rising and going to bed every
day and the beginning of every bit of work, are subjects of express
volitional deliberation.

Full half the time of such a man goes to the deciding or regretting
of matters which ought to be so ingrained in him as practically not
to exist for his consciousness at all."

Have you ever reflected how miserable you would be and what a task
living would be if you had to learn to write anew every morning
when you go to class; or if you had to relearn how to tie your
necktie every day?

The burden of living would be intolerable.

The last advantage to be discerned in habit is economy. Habitual
acts do not have to be actively directed by consciousness. While they
are being performed, consciousness may be otherwise engaged. "The more
of the details of our daily life we can hand over to the effortless
custody of automatism, the more our higher powers of mind will be
set free for their own proper work."

While you are brushing your hair or tying your shoes, your mind may be
engaged in memorizing poetry or calculating arithmetical problems.

Habit is thus a great economizer.

The ethical consequences of habit are so striking that before leaving
the subject we must give them acknowledgment.

We can do no better than to turn to the statement by Professor
James, whose wise remarks upon the subject have not been improved
upon:

"The physiological study of mental conditions is thus the most
powerful ally of hortatory ethics.

The hell to be endured hereafter, of which theology tells, is no
worse than the hell we make for ourselves in this world by habitually
fashioning our characters in the wrong way.

Could the young but realize how soon they will become mere walking
bundles of habits, they would give more heed to their conduct while
in the plastic state.

We are spinning our own fates, good or evil, and never to be
undone. Every smallest stroke of virtue or of vice leaves its never-so-little
scar.

The drunken Rip Van Winkle, in Jefferson's play, excuses himself for
every fresh dereliction by saying, 'I won't count this time!'

Well!

he may not count it and a kind heaven may not count it; but it is
being counted none the less.

Down among his nerve-cells and fibers the molecules are counting it,
registering it, and storing it up to be used against him when the
next temptation comes.

Nothing we ever do is, in strict scientific literalness, wiped out.

Of course this has its good side as well as its bad one. As we become
permanent drunkards by so many drinks, so we become saints in the
moral, and authorities and experts in the practical and scientific,
spheres, by so many separate acts and hours of work.

But let no youth have any anxiety about the upshot of his education,
whatever the line of it may be.

If he keep faithfully busy each hour of the working day, he may
safely leave the final result to itself.

He can with perfect certainty count on waking up some fine morning,
to find himself one of the competent ones of his generation, in
whatever pursuit he has singled out.

Silently, between all the details of his business, the _power of
judging_ in all that class of matter will have built itself up
within him as a possession that will never pass away.

Young people should know the truth of this in advance.

The ignorance of it has probably engendered more discouragement
and faintheartedness in youths embarking on arduous careers than
all other causes put together."

EXERCISE

Exercise 1.

Point out an undesirable habit that you are determined to eradicate.

Describe the desirable habit which you will adopt in its place. Give
the concrete steps you will take in forming the new habit.

How long a time do you estimate will be required for the formation
of the new habit?

Mark down the date and refer back to it when you have formed the
habit, to see how accurately you estimated.

CHAPTER V
ACTIVE IMAGINATION

A very large part of the mental life of a student consists in the
manipulation of images.

By images we mean the revivals of things that have been impressed
upon the senses.

Call to mind for the moment your house-number as it appears upon the
door of your home.

In so doing you mentally reinstate something which has been impressed
upon your senses many times; and you see it almost as clearly as
if it were actually before you.

The mental thing thus revived is called an image.

The word image is somewhat ill-chosen; for it usually signifies
something connected with the eye, and implies that the stuff of
mental images is entirely visual.

The true fact of the matter is, we can image practically anything that
we can sense. We may have tactual images of things touched;
auditory images of things heard; gustatory images of things tasted;
olfactory images of things smelled.

How these behave in general and how they interact in study will engage
our attention in this chapter.

The most highly dramatic use of images is in connection with that
mental process known as Imagination.

As we study the writings of Jack London, Poe, Defoe, Bunyan, we
move in a realm almost wholly imaginary.

And as we take a cross-section of our minds when thus engaged, we
find them filled with images.

"No, be-loved," said the Gutter Pup with a sigh, who was suffering
from the first case, but not from the second.

The amazement of rolling, old Sir John Falstaff at the transformation
of Prince Hal was nothing to the consternation of the Kennedy House at
the sudden conversion of Dink Stover, the fount of mischief, into a
complete disciplinarian.

Now the cardinal principle of House government is the division of the
flock by the establishing of an age line. The control of the
youngsters is almost always vigorously enforced, and though the
logical principles involved are sometimes rather dubious they are
adequate from the fact that they are never open to argument.
Occasionally, however, under the leadership of some president either
too indolent or incapable of leadership, this strict surveillance over
the habits and conduct of youth is relaxed, with disastrous results to
the orderly reputation of the House.

Stover, having been the arch rebel and fomenter of mischief, had the
most determined ideas as to the discipline he intended to enforce and
the respect he should exact.

The first clash came with the initial House Meeting, over which he
presided. Now in the past these occasions had offered Dennis de Brian
de Boru Finnegan and his attendant imps unlimited amusement, as King
Lentz had been almost totally ignorant of the laws of parliamentary
procedure.

Of a consequence, no sooner was a meeting fairly under way, than some
young scamp would rise and solemnly move the previous question, which
never failed to bring down a storm of hoots at the complete
mystification of the perplexed chairman, who never to his last day was
able to solve this knotty point of procedure.

Now, Dennis, while he had been impressed by Stover's new majesty,
retained still a feeling of resistance. So the moment the gavel
declared the meeting open he bobbed up with a wicked gleam and shrilly
announced:

"Mr. Chairman, I move the previous question."

"Mr. Finnegan will come to order," said Stover quietly.

"Oh, I say, Dink!"

"Are you addressing the chair?" said Stover sternly.

"Oh, no," said Finnegan, according to his usual manner, "I was just
whistling through my teeth, gargling my larynx, trilling----"

Crash came the gavel and the law spoke forth:

"Mr. Finnegan will come to order?"

"I won't!"

"Mr. Finnegan either apologizes to the chair, or the chair will see
that Mr. Finnegan returns to short trousers and stays there. Mr.
Finnegan has exactly one minute to make up his mind."

Dennis, crimson and gasping, stood more thoroughly amazed and
nonplussed than he had ever been in his active existence. He opened
his mouth as though to reply, and beheld Stover calmly draw forth his
watch. Had it been any one else, Dennis would have hesitated; but he
knew Stover of old and what the chilly, metallic note was in his
voice. He chose the lesser of two evils and gave the apology.

"The chair will now state," said Stover, replacing his watch, "for the
benefit of any other young, transcendent jokers that may care to
display their side-splitting wit, that the chair is quite capable of
handling the previous question, or any other question, and that these
meetings are going to be orderly proceedings and not one-ring circuses
for the benefit of the Kennedy Association of Clowns. The question
before the House is the protest against compulsory bath. The chair
recognizes Mr. Lazelle to make a motion."

The cup of Finnegan's bitterness was not yet filled. Stover's first
act of administration was to forbid the privileges of the cold-air
flues and the demon cigarette to all members of the House who had not
attained, according to his judgment, either a proper age or a
sufficient display of bodily stature. Among the proscribed was Dennis
de Brian de Boru Finnegan, whose legs, clothed in new dignity, fairly
quivered under the affront, as he tearfully protested:

"I say, Dink, it's an outrage!"

"Can't help it. It's for your own good."

"But I'm fifteen."

"Now, see here, Dennis," said Stover firmly, "your business is to grow
and to be of some use. No one's going to know about it unless you yell
it out, but I'm going to see that you turn out a decent, manly chap
and not another Slops Barnett."

"But you went with Slops yourself."

"I did--but you're not going to be such a fool."

"Why, you're a regular tyrant!"

"All right, call it that."

"And I elected you," said Dennis, the aggrieved and astounded modern
politician. "This is Goo-gooism!"

"No, it isn't," said Stover indignantly. "I'm not interfering with any
fellow who's sixteen--they can do what they darn please. But I'm not
going to have a lot of kids in this House starting sporting life until
they've grown up to it, savez? They're going to be worth living with
and having around, and not abominations in the sight of gods and men.
Pass the word along."

The revolt, for a short while, was furiously indignant, but the
prestige of Stover's reputation forestalled all thought of
disobedience. In such cases absolute power is in the hands of him who
can wield it, and Stover could command.

In short order he had reduced the youngsters to respect and
usefulness, with the following imperial decrees:

  1. All squabs are to maintain in public a deferential and
  modest attitude.

  2. No squab shall talk to excess in the presence of his
  elders.

  3. No squab shall habitually use bad language, under
  penalty of an application of soap and water.

  4. No squab shall use tobacco in any form.

  5. No squab shall leave the House after lights without
  express permission.

These regulations were not simply an exercise of arbitrary authority,
for in the House itself were certain elements which Dink perfectly
understood, and whose spheres of influence he was resolved to confine
to their own limits.

"How're you going to enforce, Sire, these imperial decrees?" asked the
Tennessee Shad, who, however, thoroughly approved.

"I have a method," said Stover, with an interior smile. "It's what I
call a Rogues' Gallery."

"I don't see," said the Tennessee Shad, puzzled.

"You will."

The first rebel was a Freshman, Bellefont, known as the Millionaire
Baby, who, due to a previous luxurious existence, had acquired manly
practices at an early age. Bellefont was detected with the odor of
tobacco.

"Young squab, have you been smoking?" said Stover.

"Well, what are you going to do about it?" said the youngster
defiantly.

"Gutter Pup, get your camera," said Stover.

The Gutter Pup, mystified, returned. The autocrat seized the young
rebel, slung him paternally across his knee and with raised hand
spoke:

"Gutter Pup, snap a couple of good ones. We'll make this Exhibit A in
our Rogues' Gallery."

Bellefont, at the thought of this public perpetuation, set up a howl
and kicked as though mortally stung. Stover held firm. The snapshots
were taken, developed and duly posted.

From that moment, in public at least, Stover's slightest gesture was
obeyed as promptly as the lifting of an English policeman's finger.

The yoke once accepted became popular alike with the older members,
who ceased to be annoyed, and with the squabs themselves, who, finding
they were protected from bullying or unfair exactions, soon adopted
toward Stover an attitude of reverent idolatry that was not without
its embarrassments. He was called upon at all hours to render
decisions on matters political and philosophical, with the knowledge
that his opinion would instantly be adopted as religion. Before him
were brought all family quarrels, some serious, some grotesque; but
each class demanding a settlement in equity.

One afternoon Dennis maliciously piloted to his presence Pee-wee
Norris and his new roommate, a youngster named Berbacker, called
Cyclops from the fact that one eye was glass, a gift that brought him
a peculiar admiration and envy.

Stover, observing the cunning expression on Finnegan's face, scented a
trap. The matter was, indeed, very grave.

"See here, Dink," said Pee-wee indignantly; "I leave it to you. How
would you like to stumble upon a loose eye all over the room?"

"A what?"

"A loose eye. This fellow Cyclops is all the time leaving his glass
eye around in my diggin's and I don't like it. It's the deuce of a
thing to find it winking up at you from the table or the window-seat.
It gives me the creeps."

"What have you got to say, Cyclops?" said Stover, assuming a judicial
air.

"Well, I've always been used to takin' the eye out," said Cyclops,
with an injured look. "Most fellows are glad to see it. But, I say,
I'm the fellow who has the kick. The whole thing started by Norris
hiding it on me."

"Did you swipe his eye?" said Stover severely.

"Well, yes, I did. What right's he got to let it out loose?"

"I want him to leave my eye alone," said Cyclops.

"I want him to keep his old eye in his old socket," said Pee-wee.

"Oh, Solomon, what is thy judgment?" said Dennis, who had engineered
it all.

"I'll give my judgment and it'll settle it," said Dink firmly. "But
I'll think it over first."

True to his word, he deliberated long and actively and, as the
judgment had to be given, he called the complaining parties before him
and said:

"Now, look here, Pee-wee and Cyclops; you fellows are rooming together
and you've got to get on. If you fight, keep it to yourselves; don't
shout it around. But get together--agree. You've got to go on, and
the more you agree--ahem--the less you'll disagree, see? It's just
like marriage. Now you go back and live like a respectable married
couple, and if I hear any more about this glass eye I'll spank you
both and have you photographed for the Rogues' Gallery."

Among the members of the Kennedy House there were two who defied his
authority and gave him cause for dissatisfaction--the Millionaire
Baby, who was a nuisance because he had been pampered and impressed
with his own divine right, and a fellow named Horses Griffin, who was
unbearable because, owing to his size and strength, he had never had
the blessing of a good thrashing.

Now when Stover promulgated his laws for the protection of Squabs he
had served notice on the sporting centers that he expected their
adherence. Fellows like Slops Barnett and Fatty Harris, who, to do
them justice, approved of segregation, made no defiance. Griffin,
though, who was a hulking, rather surly, self-conscious fellow,
secretly rebelled at this act of authority, and gave asylum to
Bellefont, from whom he was glad to accept the good things that
regularly arrived in boxes from a solicitous mother.

Stover had seen from the first how the issue would have to be met,
and met it at the first opportunity. Griffin having defied his
authority by openly inviting the Millionaire Baby up for the nefarious
practice of matching pennies, Dink marched up the stairs and entered
the enemy's room.

A moment later the group expectantly gathered in the hall heard
something within that resembled an itinerant cyclone, then the door
blew open and Griffin shot out and raced for the stairs, while behind
him--like an angry tom-cat--came Stover, in time to give to the
panicky champion just that extra impetus that allowed him, as Dennis
expressed it, to establish a new record--flying start--for the
twenty-six steps. After this little explanation Griffin showed a
marked disinclination for the company of Bellefont, and became,
indeed, quite a useful member of the community, though he always
retained such acute memories that an angry tone from Stover would
cause him to fidget and calculate the distance to the door.

Griffin subdued, the Millionaire Baby still remained. The problem was
a knotty one, for as Bellefont was still of sub-stature the means of
correction were limited.

"What worries your Majesty?" said Dennis de Brian de Boru, perceiving
Stover in stern meditation. "Is it that beautiful specimen of
flunky-raised squab entitled the Millionaire Baby?"

"It is," said Dink. Between him and Dennis peace had long since been
concluded.

"He is a very precious hothouse flower," said Dennis sarcastically.

"He is the most useless, pestiferous, conceited little squirt I ever
saw," said Dink.

"I love him not."

"But I'll get that flunky smell out of him yet!"

"The pity is he has such fat, juicy boxes from home."

"He has--how often?"

"Every two weeks."

"It oughtn't to be allowed."

"What are you going to do? You can't take 'em by force."

"No--that wouldn't do."

"Still," said Dennis regretfully, "he's so young it is just ruining
his little digestion."

They sat a moment deliberating. Finally Dink spoke rapturously:

"I have it. We'll organize the Kennedy Customs House."

"Aha!"

"Everything imported must pass the Customs House."

"Pass?"

"Certainly; everything must be legal."

"What am I to be?"

"Appraiser."

"I'd rather be first taster."

"Same thing."

"You said pass," said Dennis obstinately. "I don't like that word."

"Purely technical sense."

"But there will be duties imposed?"

"Certainly."

"Aha!" said Dennis brightening. "Very high duties?"

"The maximum duty on luxuries," said Dink. "We're all good
Republicans, aren't we?"

"I am, if I can write the tariff schedule," said Dennis, who, as may
be seen, was orthodox.

When, on the following week, young Bellefont received his regular
installment of high-priced indigestibles he was amazed to see the
Gutter Pup and Lovely Mead appear with solemn demeanor.

"Hello," said the Millionaire Baby, placing himself in front of the
half-open box.

"See these badges," said Lovely Mead, pointing to their caps, around
which were displayed white bandages inscribed "inspector."

"Sure."

"We're in the Customs House."

"Well, what?"

"And we have received information that you are systematically
smuggling goods into this territory."

The Millionaire Baby looked as though a ghost had arisen.

"Aha!" said the Gutter Pup, perceiving the box. "Here's the evidence
now. Officer, seize the goods and the prisoner."

"What are you going to do to me?" said the culprit in great alarm.

"Take you before the Customs Court."

The Customs Court was sitting, without absentees, in Stover's
room--appraisers, weighers, adjusters and consulting experts, all
legally ticketed and very solemn. The prisoner was stood in a corner
and the contents of the box spread on the floor.

"First exhibit--one plum cake," announced Beekstein, who was in a
menial position.

"Duty sixty-five per cent," said Dennis de Brian de Born Finnegan,
consulting a book. "Raisins and spices."

"Two bottles of anchovy olives."

"Duty fifty per cent, imported fruits."

"Only fifty per cent?" said Stover, who had a preference for the same.

"That's all."

"What's it on?"

"Imported fruits."

"How about spiced fish?" said the Tennessee Shad, coming to the
rescue, "and, likewise, Italian glass?"

The Millionaire Baby gave a groan.

"Imported fish, forty per cent," said Dennis, "glass--Venetian
glass--thirty-five per cent. He owes us thirty per cent on this."

"Continue," said Stover, casting a grateful glance at the Tennessee
Shad.

"Two boxes of candied prunes, that's vegetables, twenty-five per
cent."

"They're preserved in sugar, aren't they?"

"Sure."

"There's a duty of fifty per cent on sugar."

"Long live the Sugar Trust."

"Doggone robbers!" said the Millionaire Baby tearfully.

"Three boxes salted almonds, one large box of chocolate bonbons, one
angel cake and six tins of candied ginger."

The judges, deliberating, assessed each article. Stover rose to
announce the decree.

"The clerk of the court will return to the importer thirty-five per
cent of the plum cake, twenty-five per cent of the candied prunes, one
box of salted almonds and two tins of ginger."

The Millionaire Baby breathlessly contained his wrath.

Dennis de Brian de Boru Finnegan addressed the court:

"Your Honor."

"Mr. Finnegan."

"I beg to call to your Honor's attention that these goods have been
seized and are subject to a fine."

"True," said Stover, glancing sternly at the frothing Bellefont. "I
would be inclined to be lenient, but I am informed that this is not
the defendant's first offense. The clerk of the court will, therefore,
confiscate the whole."

The Millionaire Baby, with a howl, began to express himself in the
language of the stables.

"Gag him," said Stover, "and let him be informed that the duties will
be lightened if in the future he declares his imports."

The government then applied the revenues to the needs of the
department of the interior.

"The duty on anchovy olives is too high," said Finnegan, looking
fondly down a bottle.

"How so?"

"It will stop the imports."

"True--we might reduce it."

"We must encourage imports," said the Gutter Pup firmly.

And the chorus came full mouthed:

"Sure!"

The Millionaire Baby received three more boxes--that is, he received
the limited portion that a paternal government allowed him. Then,
being chastened, he took a despicable revenge--he stopped the supply.

"Well, it was sweet while it lasted," said Dennis regretfully.

"We've stopped toadyism in the House," said Stover virtuously. "We
have eliminated the influence of money."

"That is praiseworthy, but it doesn't fill me with enthusiasm."

"Dink," said the Tennessee Shad, "I must say I consider this one of
your few failures. You're a great administrator, but you don't
understand the theory of taxation."

"I don't, eh? Well, what is the theory?"

"The theory of taxation," said the Tennessee Shad, "is to soak the
taxed all they'll stand for, but to leave them just enough, so they'll
come again."


XXIV


No sooner had Mr. John H. Stover returned from the serious
developments of the summer, arranged his new possessions and brought
forward the photograph of Miss McCarty to a position on the edge of
his bureau, where he could turn to it the last thing at night and
again behold it with his waiting glance, than a horrible coincidence
appeared.

Among the festive decorations that made the corporate home of Dink and
the Tennessee Shad a place to visit and admire was, as has been
related, a smashing poster of a ballet dancer in the costume of an
amazon parader. Up to now Dink had shared the just pride of the
Tennessee Shad in this rakish exhibit that somehow gave the possessor
the reputation of having an acquaintance with stage entrances. But on
the second morning when his faithful glance turned to the protecting
presence of Miss McCarty resting among the brushes, it paused a moment
on the representative of the American dramatic profession, who was
coquettishly trying to conceal one foot behind her ear.

Then he sat bolt upright with a start. By some strange perversion of
the fate that delights in torturing lovers, the features of the
immodestly clothed amazon bore the most startling resemblance to that
paragon of celestial purity, Miss Josephine McCarty.

The more he gazed the more astounding was the impression. He gazed and
then he did not gaze at all--it seemed like a profanation. The
resemblance, once perceived, positively haunted him; stand where he
might his eyes could see nothing but the seraphic head of Miss McCarty
upon the unspeakable body of the amazon--and then those legs!

For days this centaurian combination tortured him without his being
able to evolve a satisfactory method of removing the blasphemous
poster. A direct attack was quite out of the question, for manifestly
the Tennessee Shad would demand an adequate explanation for the
destruction of his treasured possession. There could be no explanation
except the true one, and such a confession was unthinkable, even to a
roommate under oath.

For two solid weeks Stover, brooding desperately, sought to avert his
glance from the profane spectacle before chance came to his rescue.
One Saturday night, after a strenuous game with the Princeton
Freshmen, Dink, afraid of going stale, decided to quicken his jaded
appetite by an application of sardines, deviled ham and rootbeer.

The feasting-table happened to be directly beneath the abhorrent
poster, so that Stover, as he lifted the bottle to open it, beheld
with fury the offending tights. He gave the bottle instinctively a
shake and with that disturbing motion suddenly came his plan.

"This rootbeer has been flat as the deuce lately," he said.

"They're selling us poor stuff," said the Tennessee Shad, with the
tail of a sardine disappearing within.

"I wonder if I could put life in the blame thing if I shook it up a
bit," said Stover, suiting the action to the word.

Now, the Tennessee Shad knew from experience what that result would
be, but as Stover was holding the bottle he dissembled his knowledge.

"Give it a shake," he said.

Stover complied.

"Shake her again."

"How's that?"

"Once more. It'll be just like champagne."

Stover gave it a final vigorous shake, pointed the nozzle toward the
poster and cut the cork. There was an explosion and then the contents
rose like a geyser and spread over the ceiling and the luckless
ballet dancer who dared to resemble Miss McCarty.

By the next morning the poster was unrecognizable under a coating of
dried reddish spots and was ignominiously removed, to the delight of
Stover, whose illusions were thus preserved, as well as his secret.

Now, the month spent at the McCartys' had strengthened his honorable
intentions and given them that definite purpose that is sometimes
vulgarly ticketed--object matrimony.

It is not that Dink could return over the romantic days of his visit
and lay his finger on any particular scene or any definite word that
could be construed as binding Miss McCarty. But, on the other hand,
his own actions and expressions, he thought, must have been so capable
of but one interpretation that, as a man of honor, he held himself
morally as well as willingly bound. Of course, she had understood his
attitude; she must have understood. And, likewise, there were events
that made him believe that she, in her discreet way, had let him see
by her actions what she could not convey by her words. For, of course,
in his present position of dependence on his father, nothing could be
said. He understood that. He would not have changed it. Still, there
were unmistakable memories of the preference he had enjoyed. There
had been, in particular, an ill-favored dude, called Ver Plank, who
had always been hanging around with his tandem and his millions, who
had been sacrificed a dozen times by the unmercenary angel to his,
John H. Stover's, profit. That was clear enough, and there had been
many such incidents.

The only thing that disappointed Dink was the polite correctness of
her letters. But then something, he said to himself, must be allowed
for maiden modesty. His own letters were the product of afternoons and
evenings. The herculean difficulty that he experienced in covering
four sheets of paper--even when writing a flowing hand and allowing
half a page for the signature--secretly worried him. It seemed as
though something was lacking in his character or in the strength of
his devotion.

On the day after the final disappearance of the brazen amazon Dink
pounced upon a violet envelope in the well-known handwriting and bore
it to a place of secrecy. It was in answer to four of his own painful
compositions.

He gave three glances before reading, three glances that estimate all
such longed-for epistles. There were five pages, which brought him a
thrill; it was signed "as ever, Josephine," which brought him a doubt;
and it began "Dear Jack," which brought him nothing at all.

Having thus passed from hot to cold, and back to a fluctuating
temperature, he began the letter--first, to read what was written, and
second, to read what might be concealed between the lines:

  DEAR JACK: Since your last letter I've been in a perfect whirl of
  gayety--dances, coaching parties and what-not. Really, you would say
  that I was nothing but a frivolous butterfly of fashion. Next week I
  am going to the Ver Planks' with quite a party and we are to coach
  through the Berkshires. The Judsons are to be along and that pretty
  Miss Dow, of whom I was so jealous when you were here, do you
  remember? I met a Mr. Cockrell, who, it seems, was at Lawrenceville.
  He told me you were going to be a phenomenal football player,
  captain of the team next year, and all sorts of wonderful things. He
  _admires_ you _tremendously_. I was so pleased! Don't forget to
  write soon.

    As ever,
      JOSEPHINE.

This letter, as indeed all her letters did, left Dink trapezing, so to
speak, from one emotion to another. He had not acquired that
knowledge, which indeed is never acquired, of valuing to a nicety the
intents, insinuations and complexities of the feminine school of
literature.

There were things that sent him soaring like a Japanese kite and there
were things, notably the reference to Ver Plank, that tumbled him as
awkwardly down.

He immediately seized upon pen and paper. It had, perhaps, been his
fault. He would conduct the correspondence on a more serious tone. He
would be a little--daring.

At the start he fell into the usual inky deliberation. "Dear
Josephine" was so inadequate. "My dear Josephine" had--or did it not
have--just an extra little touch of tenderness, a peculiar claim to
possession. But if so, would it be too bold or too sentimental? He
wrote boldly:

"My dear Josephine:"

Then he considered. Unfortunately, at that time the late lamented Pete
Daly, in the halls of the likewise lamented Weber and Fields, was
singing dusky love songs to a lady likewise entitled "My Josephine."
The connection was unthinkable. Dink tore the page into minute bits
and, selecting another, sighed and returned to the old formula.

Here another long pause succeeded while he searched for a sentiment or
a resolve that would raise him in her estimation. It is a mood in
which the direction of a lifetime is sometimes bartered for a phrase.
So it happened with Dink. Suddenly his face lit up and he started to
write:

  DEAR JOSEPHINE: Your letter came to me just as I was writing you of
  a plan I have been thinking of for weeks. I have decided not to go
  to college. Of course, it would be a great pleasure and, perhaps, I
  look upon life too seriously, as you often tell me; but I want to
  get to work, to feel that I am standing on my own feet, and four
  years seems an awful time to wait,--for that. What do you think? I
  do hope you understand just _what_ I mean. It is very serious to me,
  the most serious thing in the world.

  I'm glad you're having a good time.

  Don't write such nonsense about Miss Dow; you know there's nothing
  in that direction. Do write and tell me what you think about my
  plan.

    Faithfully yours,
      JACK.

  P. S. When are you going to send me that new photograph? I have only
  three of you now, a real one and two kodaks. I'm glad you're having
  a good time.

No sooner was this letter dispatched and Stover had realized what had
been in his mind for weeks than he went to Tough McCarty to inform
him of his high resolve.

"But, Dink," said Tough in dismay, "you can't be serious! Why, we were
going through college together!"

"That's the hard part of it," said Dink, looking and, indeed, feeling
very solemn.

"But you're giving up a wonderful career. Every one says you'll be a
star end. You'll make the All-American. Oh, Dink!"

"Don't," said Dink heroically.

"But, I say, what's happened?"

"It's--it's a family matter," said Stover, who on such occasions, it
will be perceived, had a strong family feeling.

"Is it decided?" said Tough in consternation.

"Unless stocks take a turn," said Dink.

McCarty was heartbroken, Dink rather pleased, with the new role that,
somehow, lifted him from his fellows in dignity and seriousness and
seemed to cut down the seven years. All that week he waited hopefully
for her answer. She must understand now the inflexibility of his
character and the intensity of his devotion. His letter told
everything, and yet in such a delicate manner that she must honor him
the more for the generous way in which he took everything upon
himself, offered everything and asked nothing. He was so confidently
happy and elated with the vexed decision of his affairs that he even
took the Millionaire Baby over to the Jigger Shop and stood treat,
after a few words of paternal advice which went unheeded.

Toward the beginning of the third week in the early days of November,
as the squad was returning from practice Tough said casually:

"I say, did you get a letter from Sis?"

"No," said Dink with difficulty.

"You probably have one at the house. She's engaged."

"What?" said Dink faintly. The word seemed to be spoken from another
mouth.

"Engaged to that Ver Plank fellow that was hanging around. I think
he's a mutt."

"Oh, yes--Ver Plank."

"Gee, it gave me quite a jolt!"

"Oh, I--I rather expected it."

He left Tough, wondering how he had had the strength to answer.

"Look out, you're treading on my toes," said the Gutter Pup next him.

He mumbled something and his teeth closed over his tongue in the
effort to bring the sharp sense of pain. He went to his box; the
letter was there. He went to his room and laid it on the table, going
to the window and staring out. Then he sat down heavily, rested his
head in his hands and read:

  DEAR JACK: I'm writing to you among the first, for I want you
  particularly to know how happy I am. Mr. Ver Plank----

He put the letter down; indeed, he could not see to read any further.
There was nothing more to read--nothing mattered. It was all over, the
light was gone, everything was topsy-turvy. He could not
understand--but it was over--all over. There was nothing left.

Some time later the Tennessee Shad came loping down the hall, tried
the door and, finding it locked, called out:

"What the deuce--open up!"

Dink, in terror, rose from the table where he had remained motionless.
He caught up the letter and hastily stuffed it in his desk, saying
gruffly:

"In a moment."

Then he dabbed a sponge over his face, pressed his hands to his
temples and, steadying himself, unlocked the door.

"For the love of Mike!" said the indignant Tennessee Shad, and then,
catching sight of Dink, stopped. "Dink, what is the matter?"

"It's--it's my mother," said Dink desperately.

"She's not dead?"

"No--no----" said Dink, now free to suffocate, "not yet."


XXV


This providential appearance of his mother mercifully allowed Dink an
opportunity to suffer without fear of disgrace in the eyes of the
unemotional Tennessee Shad.

That very night, as soon as the Shad had departed in search of
Beekstein's guiding mathematical hand, Dink sat down heroically to
frame his letter of congratulations. He would show her that, though
she looked upon him as a boy, there was in him the courage that never
cries out. She had played with him, but at least she should look back
with admiration.

"Dear Miss McCarty," he wrote--that much he owed to his own dignity,
and that should be his only reproach. 
The charitable intentions of a testator have never, in any instance,
been better fulfilled than this; the residuary rents, owing to the
great increase of rental in the Forster estates, became considerably
the most important part of the bequest; and the trustees, who are
restricted to five in number, all clergymen, and of whom the rector
of Lincoln College is always one, being unfettered by any positive
regulations, have so discharged their trust as to render Bamborough
Castle the most extensively useful, as well as the most munificent,
of all our eleemosynary institutions.

  There are two free-schools there, both on the Madras system, one
  for boys, the other for girls; and thirty of the poorest girls are
  clothed, lodged, and boarded, till, at the age of sixteen, they
  are put out to service, with a good stock of clothing, and a present
  of 2_l_.
  12_s_. 6_d_. each; and at the end of the first year, if the girl
has behaved well, another guinea is given her, with a Bible, a
Prayer-book, the Whole Duty of Man, and Secker's Lectures on the
Catechism.

    There is a library
      in the castle, to which Dr.

Sharp, one of the trustees, bequeathed, in 1792, the whole of his own
collection, valued at more than 800_l_.; the books are lent gratuitously
to any householder, of good report, residing within twenty miles
of Bamborough, and to any clergyman, Roman Catholic priest, or
dissenting minister within the said distance. There is an infirmary
also in the castle, of which the average annual number of in-patients
is about thirty-five--of out-patients above one thousand. There is an
ample granary, from whence, in time of scarcity, the poor are
supplied on low terms.

Twice a week the poor are supplied with meal, at reduced prices,
and with groceries at prime cost; and the average number of persons
who partake this benefit is about one thousand three hundred in
ordinary times, in years of scarcity very many more.

To sailors on that perilous coast Bamborough Castle is what the Convent
of St. Bernard is to travellers in the Alps. Thirty beds are kept for
shipwrecked sailors; a patrol for above eight miles (being the length
of the manor) is kept along the coast every stormy night; signals
are made; a life-boat is in readiness at Holy Island, and apparatus
of every kind is ready for assisting seamen in distress;--wrecked
goods are secured and stored, the survivors are relieved, the bodies
that are cast on shore are decently interred.

_Quarterly Review._

* * * * *
FINE ARTS

THE DIORAMA.

On the day of the unfortunate destruction of the Oxford Street
Diorama and Bazaar, by fire, two new views were opened at the Diorama
in the Regent's Park.

These are the _Interior of St. Peter's at Rome_, and the _Village of
Thiers_.

We have so often spoken in terms of the highest commendation of the
Regent's Park Diorama, that we hardly know in what set of words to
point out the beauties of these new views, the merits of which must
not alter our meed of praise, however the subjects may its details.

The Interior of St. Peter's is by M. Bouton. The point of view
is at the east entry, opposite to the choir; the reader, perhaps,
not being aware that the choir in this cathedral is situated
differently from all others, being at the west end.

So beautiful are the proportions of the cathedral itself, that its
vastness does not strike at first sight, and this effect is admirably
preserved in the Diorama.

We think we could point out a few inaccuracies in the drawing;
but the projections, capitals of the columns, and some of the
medallion portraits which ornament them, are so well painted, that we
can scarcely believe ourselves looking on a flat surface.
Having studied the preferences and dislikes of his tyrants
he succeeded, however, in bluffing through most of his recitations
with the loyal support of Beekstein. But The Roman was not thus to be
circumvented, and as Dink, in the Byronic period of grief, had no
heart for florid improvisations of the applause of the multitude he
contented himself, whenever annoyed by his implacable persecutor, The
Roman, by rising and saying with great dignity:

"Not prepared, sir."

The blow fell one week before the Andover game, when such blows always
fall. The Roman called him up after class and informed him that, owing
to the paucity of evidence in his daily appearances, he would have to
put him to a special examination to determine whether he had a passing
knowledge.

The school was in dismay. A failure, of course, meant disbarment from
the Andover game--the loss of Stover, who was the strength of the
whole left side.

To Dink, of course, this extraordinary decree was the crowning
evidence of the determined hatred of The Roman. And all because he
had, years before, mistaken him for a commercial traveler and called
him "Old Cocky-wax!"

He would be flunked--of course he would be flunked if The Roman had
made up his mind to do it. He might have waited another week--after
the Andover game. But no, his plan was to keep him out the game, which
of course, meant the loss of the captaincy, which every one accorded
him.

These opinions, needless to say, were shared by all well-wishers of
the eleven. There was even talk, in the first moments of excitement,
of arraigning The Roman before the Board of Trustees.

The examination was to be held in The Roman's study that night.
Beekstein and Gumbo hurried to Dink's assistance. But what could that
avail with six weeks' work to cover!

In this desperate state desperate means were suggested by desperate
characters. Stover should go the examination padded with interlinear,
friendly aids to translation. A committee from outside should then
convey the gigantic water cooler that stood in the hall to the upper
landing. There it should be nicely balanced on the topmost step and a
string thrown out the window, which, at the right time, should be
pulled by three patriots from other Houses. The water cooler would
descend with a hideous clatter, The Roman would rush from his study,
and Stover would be given time to refresh his memory.

Now, Stover did not like this plan. He had never done much direct
cribbing, as that species of deception made him uncomfortable and
seemed devoid of the high qualities of dignity that should attend the
warfare against the Natural Enemy.

At first he refused to enter this conspiracy, but finally yielded in a
half-hearted way when it was dinned in his ears that he was only
meeting The Roman at his own game, that he was being persecuted, that
the school was being sacrificed for a private spite--in a word, that
the end must be looked at and not the means and that the end was moral
and noble.

Thus partly won over, Dink entered The Roman's study that night with
portions of interlinear translations distributed about his person and
whipped up into a rage against The Roman that made him forget all
else.

The study was on the ground floor--the conspirators were to wait at
the window until Stover should have received the examination paper and
given the signal.

The Roman nodded as Stover entered and, motioning him to a seat, gave
him the questions, saying:

"I sincerely hope, John, you are able to answer these."

"Thank you, sir," said Stover with great sarcasm.

He went to the desk by the window and sat down, taking out his pencil.

There was a shuffling of feet and the scraping of a chair across the
room. Stover looked up in surprise.

"Take your time, John," said The Roman, who had risen. Then, without
another word, he turned and left the room.

Stover smiled to himself. He knew that trick. He waited for the sudden
reopening of the door, but no noise came. He frowned and, mechanically
looking at the questions, opened his book at the place designated.
Then he raised his head and listened again.

All at once he became very angry. The Roman was putting him on his
honor--he had no right to do any such thing! It changed all their
preparations. It was a low-down, malignant trick. It took away all the
elements of danger that glorified the conspiracy. It made it easy and,
therefore, mean.

At the window came a timid scratching. Stover shook his head. The
Roman would return. Then he would give the signal willingly. So he
folded his arms sternly and waited--but no footsteps slipped along
outside the door. The Roman had indeed left him to his honor.

A great, angry lump came in his throat, angry tears blurred his eyes.
He hated The Roman, he despised him; it was unfair, it was malicious,
but he could not do what he would have done. There _was_ a difference.

All at once the bowels of the House seemed rent asunder, as down the
stairs, bumping and smashing, went the liberated water cooler.
Instantly a chorus of shrieks arose, steps rushing to and fro, and
then quiet.

Still The Roman did not come. Stover glanced at the paragraphs
selected, and oh, mockery and bitterness, two out of three happened to
be passages he had read with Beekstein not an hour before. His eye
went over them, he remembered them perfectly.

"If that ain't the limit!" he said, choking. "To know 'em after all.
Of course, now I can't do 'em. Of course, now if I hand 'em in the old
rhinoceros will think I cribbed 'em. Of all the original Jobs I am the
worst! This is the last straw!"

When half an hour later The Roman returned Stover was sitting erect,
with folded arms and lips compressed.

"Ah, Stover, all through?" said The Roman, as though the House had not
just been blown asunder. "Hand in your paper."

Stover stiffly arose and handed him the foolscap. The Roman took it
with a frowning little glance. At the top was written in big, defiant
letters: "John H. Stover."

Below there was nothing at all.

Stover stood, swaying from heel to heel, watching The Roman.

"What the deuce is he looking at?" he thought in wonder, as The Roman
sat silently staring at the blank sheet.

Finally he turned over the page, as though carefully perusing it,
poised a pencil, and said in a low voice, without glancing up:

"Well, John, I think this will just about pass."


XXVI


The football season had ended victoriously. The next week brought the
captaincy for the following year to Stover by unanimous approval. But
the outlook for the next season was of the weakest; only four men
would remain. The charge that he would have to lead would be a
desperate one. This sense of responsibility was, perhaps, more acute
in Stover than even the pleasure-giving sense of the attendant
admiration of the school whenever he appeared among them.

Other thoughts, too, were working within him. Ever since the
extraordinary outcome of his examination at the hands of The Roman
Stover had been in a ferment of confusion. The Roman's action amazed,
then perplexed, then doubly confounded him.

If The Roman was not his enemy, had not been all this time his
persistent, malignant foe, what then? What was left to him to cling
to? If he admitted this, then his whole career would have to be
reconstructed. Could it be that, after all, month in and month out, it
had been The Roman himself who had stood as his friend in all the
hundred and one scrapes in which he had tempted Fate? And pondering on
this gravely, Dink Stover, in the portion of his soul that was
consecrated to fair play, was mightily exercised.

It was mine; and I--I don't like thinking about it.

JOHNNY. I know. I hate to think about anything I've killed, really.
At least, I should--but it's better not to think.

FAITH. I could have killed that judge.

JOHNNY. Did he come the heavy father? That's what I can't stand.
When they jaw a chap and hang him afterwards. Or was he one of the
joking ones?
FAITH. I've sat in my cell and cried all night--night after night,
I have. [With a little laugh] I cried all the softness out of me."Excuse me."

"I was thinking," said Dink, rousing himself, "that I've been all
wrong."

"I don't get that."

"I mean The Roman."

"How so?"

"Tough, you know down at the bottom I have a sneaking suspicion that
he's been for me right along. It's a rotten feeling, but I'm afraid
it's so."

"Shouldn't wonder. Have you spoken to him?"

"No."

"Why not?"

"I'm not sure. And then, I don't know just how to get to it."

"Jump right in and tackle him around the knees," said Tough.

"I think I will," said Dink, who understood the metaphor.

They went up swinging briskly, watching in silence the never stale
spectacle of the panorama of the school.

"I say, Dink," said Tough suddenly, "Sis is going to put the clamps on
that T. Willyboy, Ver Plank."

"Really--when?" said Dink, surprised that the news brought him no
emotion.

"Next month."

Stover laughed a little laugh.

"You know," he said with a bit of confusion, "I fancied I was terribly
in love with Josephine myself--for a little while."

"Sure," said Tough without surprise. "Jo would flirt with anything
that had long pants on."

"Yes, she's a flirt," said Stover, and the judgment sounded like the
swish of shears cutting away angels' wings.

Before entering upon this, however, it will be possible to secure
some advantage by resting for about fifteen minutes. Do not rest
longer than this, or you may lose the momentum already secured and
your two hours will have gone for naught.

If one indulges in too long a rest, the energy seems to run down
and more effort is required to work it up again than was originally
expended.

It is also important to observe the proper mental conditions during
rest.
"Well, Jigs, there you are."

"Oh, thank you. Say----"

"Well?"

"Aren't you going to have an individual photograph?"

"No, of course not," said Stover with only outward gruffness.

"All the fellows are crazy for one, sir."

"Run along, now," said Stover with a pleased laugh. He stood on the
steps, watching the elated Jigs go scudding across the Circle, and
then went into the Kennedy. In his box was a letter of congratulation
from Miss Dow. C2.37. Notice the tone he adopts to these slaves; no
bullying, but appealing to appetite and lower motives.

This is doubtless Xenophontine and Hellenic.

C2.38. Important as illustrating the stern Spartan self-denial of
the man and his followers.That night, after an hour's brown meditation, he suddenly rose and,
descending the stairs, knocked at the sanctum sanctorum.

"Come in," said the low, musical voice.

Stover entered solemnly.

"Ah, it's you, John," said The Roman with a smile.

"Yes, sir, it's me," said Stover, leaning up against the door.

The Roman glanced up quickly and, seeing what was coming, took up the
paper-cutter and began to twist it through his fingers. Draw upon
these resources and you will find yourself gradually living and
working upon a higher plane of efficiency, improving the quality
of your work, increasing the quantity of your work and enhancing
your enjoyment in work.

But now, sir, I've come in to have
it out."

"I'm glad you have, John."

"I want to ask you one question."

"Yes?"

"Have you, all this time, really been standing by me, yanking me out
of all the messes I got in?"

"Well, that expresses it, perhaps."

"Then I've been way off," said Stover solemnly. "Why, sir, all this
time I thought you were down on me, had it in for me, right from the
first."

"From our first meeting?" said The Roman, with a little chuckle.
"Perhaps, John, you didn't give me credit--shall I say, for a sense of
humor?"

"Yes, sir." Stover looked a moment at his polished boot and then
resolutely at The Roman. Hints on Development of Freedom of Expression.

XI. HOW TO BECOME INTERESTED IN A SUBJECT
Nature of Interest.

Intellectual Interests Gained Through Experience.
Many Possible Fields of Interest. Laws of Interest.
XII. THE PLATEAU OF DESPOND 
Measurement of Mental Progress.Hopkins," said Stover after a moment, "I must have given you some
pretty hard times?"

"You were always full of energy, John."

"I don't see what made you stand by me, sir."

"John," said The Roman, leaning back and caging his fingers, "it is a
truth which it is, perhaps, unwise to publish abroad, and I shall have
to swear you to the secret. It is the boy whose energy must explode
periodically and often disastrously, it is the boy who gives us the
most trouble, who wears down our patience and tries our souls, who is
really the most worth while."

Now you wrench your gaze loose, and you look down in front of you and
see the broad Pennsylvania Avenue stretching straight ahead for a
mile or more till it brings up against the iron fence in front of
a pillared granite pile, the Treasury building-an edifice that would
command respect in any capital.

The stores and hotels that wall in this broad avenue are mean, and
cheap, and dingy, and are better left without comment.

Beyond the Treasury is a fine large white barn, with wide unhandsome
grounds about it.

The President lives there. It is ugly enough outside, but that is
nothing to what it is inside. Dreariness, flimsiness, bad taste
reduced to mathematical completeness is what the inside offers to the
eye, if it remains yet what it always has been.

"And now, in the House--bring out some of the younger fellows."

"Yes, sir."

"There's Norris. Perhaps a little serious talk--only a word dropped."

"You're right, sir; I understand what you mean."

"Then there's Berbecker."

"He's only a little fresh, sir; there's good stuff in him."

"And then, John, there's a boy who's been under early disadvantages,
but a bright boy, full of energy, good mind, but needs to be taken in
hand, with a little kindness."

"Who, sir?"

"Bellefont."

"Bellefont!" said Stover, exploding. "I beg your pardon, sir. You're
wrong there. That kid is hopeless. Nothing will do him any good. He's
a perfect little nuisance. He's a thoroughgoing, out-and-out little
varmint!"

The Roman tapped the table and, looking far out through the darkened
window, smiled the gentle smile of one who has watched the
ever-recurrent miracle of humanity, the struggling birth of the man
out of the dirtied, hopeless cocoon of the boy.

And Stover, suddenly beholding that smile, all at once stopped,
blushed and understood!



THE END