"Then," continued Rand, "we agree to accept the challenge of the
Highpoints. How's this for a reply?"

"TO THE HIGHPOINT PATROL, GREETING:

"The Uncas Patrol accepts with pieasure your courteous challenge
to a contest on the Hudson. Time and place to be agreed upon."

"In my opinion," said Donald, "you should say 'rowing match' as
being more specific."

"All right," replied Rand. "Are there any further additions or
amendments? If not, I will declare it approved as read."

"Now, who will volunteer to carry it to Highpoint?"

"I will!" cried Dick.

"I will make the attempt," announced Donald.

"Lave it to me," said Gerald.

"I'll take it," responded Jack.

"I ought to be the one," pleaded Pepper. "You know I am not in the
race."

"You can't all go," decided Rand; "how shall we settle it?"

"Take a vote on it," suggested Jack.

"We will each one write a name on a slip of paper and put it in
the box," proposed Pepper.

For a moment each boy was busy with paper and pencil and then the
ballots were thrown upon the table to be counted by Rand.

"Each one of you has received one vote; you each voted for yourself,"
announced Rand, when he had gone over them. "You will have to draw
lots."

"Let's toss up for it," said Donald. "Toss up your lucky penny,
Rand."

"How can you manage that?" asked Jack, "there are five of us and
only one penny."

"That's easily fixed," replied Donald, "Jack and I will toss first
and the winner takes the next one."

"Very well," agreed Rand, "what do you say, Jack?" giving the coin
a toss in the air.

"Head!" said Jack.

"Tail it is," returned Rand, as he picked it up. "Now, Gerald, it
is your choice."

"Head," replied Gerald.

"Tail again," said Rand.

"Faith, thot's the toime tail came out a head," commented Gerald.

"Now, Dick."

"Head," replied Dick.

"Tail again," announced Rand. "Luck is with you, Donald. There is
only Pepper left now."

"Only Pepper!" exclaimed that individual indignantly. "What is the
matter with me?"

"Notin' at ail, me darlint," broke in Gerald; "shure, your the
biggest banana in the bunch, av people only knew it."

"Well, Pepper?" said Rand.

"Heads."

"Head it is," announced Rand. "You're it, Pepper."

"Begorrah, 'tis a long tail that has no head," commented Gerald.

"Master Pepper Blake," began Rand, "has been chosen to carry our
message of defiance to the tribe of the Highpoints."

"When do I go?"

"At the rise of the sun to-morrow," replied Rand, "you must be
prepared to take the trail."

"Before breakfast?"

"We will not require that sacrifice of you," said Rand. "Here is
the message. Fail not on your honor to deliver it. You are going
through a hostile country beset with enemies--"

"Monkey Rae's," murmured Gerald.

"And the message must be delivered under all circumstances. It
contains information of the utmost importance, which must not be
allowed to fall into the enemies's hands. I will meet you to-morrow
at the great oak to give you your final instructions."

"Very well, sir," replied Pepper, "I will not fail to carry out
your commands to the letter."

"Bravo, boys, well done!" commended Mr. Scott, who had been standing
in the doorway, unseen by the boys, enjoying the fun. "If I was
only a little younger, there is nothing I would like better than
to be an Indian brave with you."

For a moment the boys were silent in the presence of the bank
president, whom they all regarded with more or less awe, until
Gerald broke the silence.

"Shure, 'tis niver too late to have fun, Mister Scott," he said.
"We'd be plased to have ye for one of us. We'll make ye prisident
an' ye'll find it a hape more fun than bein' the prisident av the
bank."

