  INDULGENT muse! my grov'ling mind inspire,
  And fill my bosom with celestial fire.
  See from Jamaica's fervid shore she moves,
  Like the fair mother of the blooming loves,
  When from above the Goddess with her hand
  Fans the soft breeze, and lights upon the land;
  Thus she on Neptune's wat'ry realm reclin'd
  Appear'd, and thus invites the ling'ring wind.
    "Arise, ye winds, America explore,
  "Waft me, ye gales, from this malignant shore;
  "The Northern milder climes I long to greet,
  "There hope that health will my arrival meet."
  Soon as she spoke in my ideal view
  The winds assented, and the vessel flew.
    Madam, your spouse bereft of wife and son,
  In the grove's dark recesses pours his moan;
  Each branch, wide-spreading to the ambient sky,
  Forgets its verdure, and submits to die.
    From thence I turn, and leave the sultry plain,
  And swift pursue thy passage o'er the main:
  The ship arrives before the fav'ring wind,
  And makes the Philadelphian port assign'd,
  Thence I attend you to Bostonia's arms,
  Where gen'rous friendship ev'ry bosom warms:
  Thrice welcome here! may health revive again,
  Bloom on thy cheek, and bound in ev'ry vein!
  Then back return to gladden ev'ry heart,
  And give your spouse his soul's far dearer part,
  Receiv'd again with what a sweet surprise,
  The tear in transport starting from his eyes!
  While his attendant son with blooming grace
  Springs to his father's ever dear embrace.
  With shouts of joy Jamaica's rocks resound,
  With shouts of joy the country rings around.


  To a LADY on her remarkable Preservation
      in an Hurricane in North-Carolina.

  THOUGH thou did'st hear the tempest from afar,
  And felt'st the horrors of the wat'ry war,
  To me unknown, yet on this peaceful shore
  Methinks I hear the storm tumultuous roar,
  And how stern Boreas with impetuous hand
  Compell'd the Nereids to usurp the land.
  Reluctant rose the daughters of the main,
  And slow ascending glided o'er the plain,
  Till AEolus in his rapid chariot drove
  In gloomy grandeur from the vault above:
  Furious he comes.  His winged sons obey
  Their frantic sire, and madden all the sea.
  The billows rave, the wind's fierce tyrant roars,
  And with his thund'ring terrors shakes the shores:
  Broken by waves the vessel's frame is rent,
  And strows with planks the wat'ry element.
    But thee, Maria, a kind Nereid's shield
  Preserv'd from sinking, and thy form upheld:
  And sure some heav'nly oracle design'd
  At that dread crisis to instruct thy mind
  Things of eternal consequence to weigh,
  And to thine heart just feelings to convey
  Of things above, and of the future doom,
  And what the births of the dread world to come.
    From tossing seas I welcome thee to land.
  "Resign her, Nereid," 'twas thy God's command.
  Thy spouse late buried, as thy fears conceiv'd,
  Again returns, thy fears are all reliev'd:
  Thy daughter blooming with superior grace
  Again thou see'st, again thine arms embrace;
  O come, and joyful show thy spouse his heir,
  And what the blessings of maternal care!


  But there are many who are only selfishly
      your friends.

  When you most need their friendship, where
  is it? When some great calamity sweeps over
  you, and, bowed and weakened, you would lean on this
  friendship, though it were but a 'broken reed,' you
  stretch forth your hand--feel but empty
  space.
  
  Then there are some who let go the hand
  of a friend because they feel sure of him, to
  grasp the extended hand of a former enemy.
    Politicians, especially, do this. An enemy
  can not so easily be transformed into a friend.
  As in those paintings of George III., on
  tavern-signs, after the Revolution changed
  to George Washington, there will still
  be the same old features.... The opposite
  of this is what every generous nature has
  tried. To revive a dying friendship, this is
  impossible. If you find yourself losing your
  friendship for a person, there must be
  some reason for it. If the former dear
  name is becoming indistinct on the tablet of
    your heart, the attempt to re-write it will
  entirely obliterate it. It is said that a sure
  way to obliterate any writing, is to attempt
  to re-write it.... But it is not true that
  'hot love soon cools.' With all my faults--and
  to say that I am an O'Molly is to admit that
  I have faults, and I am not sure that I
  would wish to be without them. To speak paradoxically, a fault in
some cases does better than a virtue--as on some organs 'the wrong
note in certain passages has a better effect than the right.'To a GENTLEMAN and LADY on the Death
    of the Lady's Brother and Sister, and a
    Child of the Name of Avis, aged one Year.

  ON Death's domain intent I fix my eyes,
  Where human nature in vast ruin lies:
  With pensive mind I search the drear abode,
  Where the great conqu'ror has his spoils bestow'd;
  There there the offspring of six thousand years
  In endless numbers to my view appears:
  Whole kingdoms in his gloomy den are thrust,
  And nations mix with their primeval dust:
  Insatiate still he gluts the ample tomb;
  His is the present, his the age to come.
  See here a brother, here a sister spread,
  And a sweet daughter mingled with the dead.
    But, Madam, let your grief be laid aside,
  And let the fountain of your tears be dry'd,
  In vain they flow to wet the dusty plain,
  Your sighs are wafted to the skies in vain,
  Your pains they witness, but they can no more,
  While Death reigns tyrant o'er this mortal shore.
    The glowing stars and silver queen of light
  At last must perish in the gloom of night:
  Resign thy friends to that Almighty hand,
  Which gave them life, and bow to his command;
  Thine Avis give without a murm'ring heart,
  Though half thy soul be fated to depart.
  To shining guards consign thine infant care
  To waft triumphant through the seas of air:
  Her soul enlarg'd to heav'nly pleasure springs,
  She feeds on truth and uncreated things.
  Methinks I hear her in the realms above,
  And leaning forward with a filial love,
  Invite you there to share immortal bliss
  Unknown, untasted in a state like this.
  With tow'ring hopes, and growing grace arise,
  And seek beatitude beyond the skies.


  On the Death of Dr. SAMUEL MARSHALL.  1771.

  THROUGH thickest glooms look back, immortal shade,
  On that confusion which thy death has made:
  Or from Olympus' height look down, and see
  A Town involv'd in grief bereft of thee.
  Thy Lucy sees thee mingle with the dead,
  And rends the graceful tresses from her head,
  Wild in her woe, with grief unknown opprest
  Sigh follows sigh deep heaving from her breast.
    Too quickly fled, ah! whither art thou gone?
  Ah! lost for ever to thy wife and son!
  The hapless child, thine only hope and heir,
  Clings round his mother's neck, and weeps his sorrows there.
  The loss of thee on Tyler's soul returns,
  And Boston for her dear physician mourns.
    When sickness call'd for Marshall's healing hand,
  With what compassion did his soul expand?
  In him we found the father and the friend:
  In life how lov'd! how honour'd in his end!
    And must not then our AEsculapius stay
  To bring his ling'ring infant into day?
  The babe unborn in the dark womb is tost,
  And seems in anguish for its father lost.
    Gone is Apollo from his house of earth,
  But leaves the sweet memorials of his worth:
  The common parent, whom we all deplore,
  From yonder world unseen must come no more,
  Yet 'midst our woes immortal hopes attend
  The spouse, the sire, the universal friend.


  To a GENTLEMAN on his Voyage to Great-Britain
    for the Recovery of his Health.

  WHILE others chant of gay Elysian scenes,
  Of balmy zephyrs, and of flow'ry plains,
  My song more happy speaks a greater name,
  Feels higher motives and a nobler flame.
  For thee, O R-----, the muse attunes her strings,
  And mounts sublime above inferior things.
    I sing not now of green embow'ring woods,
  I sing not now the daughters of the floods,
  I sing not of the storms o'er ocean driv'n,
  And how they howl'd along the waste of heav'n.
  But I to R----- would paint the British shore,
  And vast Atlantic, not untry'd before:
  Thy life impair'd commands thee to arise,
  Leave these bleak regions and inclement skies,
  Where chilling winds return the winter past,
  And nature shudders at the furious blast.
    O thou stupendous, earth-enclosing main
  Exert thy wonders to the world again!
  If ere thy pow'r prolong'd the fleeting breath,
  Turn'd back the shafts, and mock'd the gates of death,
  If ere thine air dispens'd an healing pow'r,
  Or snatch'd the victim from the fatal hour,
  This equal case demands thine equal care,
  And equal wonders may this patient share.
  But unavailing, frantic is the dream
  To hope thine aid without the aid of him
  Who gave thee birth and taught thee where to flow,
  And in thy waves his various blessings show.
    May R----- return to view his native shore
  Replete with vigour not his own before,
  Then shall we see with pleasure and surprise,
  And own thy work, great Ruler of the skies!


  To the Rev. DR. THOMAS AMORY, on
    reading his Sermons on DAILY DEVOTION,
    in which that Duty is recommended and
    assisted.

  TO cultivate in ev'ry noble mind
  Habitual grace, and sentiments refin'd,
  Thus while you strive to mend the human heart,
  Thus while the heav'nly precepts you impart,
  O may each bosom catch the sacred fire,
  And youthful minds to Virtue's throne aspire!
    When God's eternal ways you set in sight,
  And Virtue shines in all her native light,
  In vain would Vice her works in night conceal,
  For Wisdom's eye pervades the sable veil.
    Artists may paint the sun's effulgent rays,
  But Amory's pen the brighter God displays:
  While his great works in Amory's pages shine,
  And while he proves his essence all divine,
  The Atheist sure no more can boast aloud
  Of chance, or nature, and exclude the God;
  As if the clay without the potter's aid
  Should rise in various forms, and shapes self-made,
  Or worlds above with orb o'er orb profound
  Self-mov'd could run the everlasting round.
  It cannot be--unerring Wisdom guides
  With eye propitious, and o'er all presides.
    Still prosper, Amory! still may'st thou receive
  The warmest blessings which a muse can give,
  And when this transitory state is o'er,
  When kingdoms fall, and fleeting Fame's no more,
  May Amory triumph in immortal fame,
  A nobler title, and superior name!


  On the Death of J. C. an Infant.

  NO more the flow'ry scenes of pleasure rife,
  Nor charming prospects greet the mental eyes,
  No more with joy we view that lovely face
  Smiling, disportive, flush'd with ev'ry grace.
    The tear of sorrow flows from ev'ry eye,
  Groans answer groans, and sighs to sighs reply;
  What sudden pangs shot thro' each aching heart,
  When, Death, thy messenger dispatch'd his dart?
  Thy dread attendants, all-destroying Pow'r,
  Hurried the infant to his mortal hour.
  Could'st thou unpitying close those radiant eyes?
  Or fail'd his artless beauties to surprise?
  Could not his innocence thy stroke controul,
  Thy purpose shake, and soften all thy soul?
    The blooming babe, with shades of Death o'er-spread,
  No more shall smile, no more shall raise its head,
  But, like a branch that from the tree is torn,
  Falls prostrate, wither'd, languid, and forlorn.
  "Where flies my James?" 'tis thus I seem to hear
  The parent ask, "Some angel tell me where
  "He wings his passage thro' the yielding air?"
  Methinks a cherub bending from the skies
  Observes the question, and serene replies,
  "In heav'ns high palaces your babe appears:
  "Prepare to meet him, and dismiss your tears."
  Shall not th' intelligence your grief restrain,
  And turn the mournful to the cheerful strain?
  Cease your complaints, suspend each rising sigh,
  Cease to accuse the Ruler of the sky.
  Entered, according to Act of Congress, in
  the year 1862, by
  JOHN F. TROW,
  For the Clerk's Office of the District Court
  of the United States for the Southern District
  of New York.
  
  JOHN F. TROW,
  Printer, Stereotyper and Electrotyper,
  48 & 50 Greene Street, New York.
ENTERED, according to an Act of Congress, in the year 1882 by JAMES
B.
GILMORE, in the Clerk of the Office of the District Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New-York.

JOHN A.The gift of heav'n intrusted to your hand
  Cheerful resign at the divine command:
  Not at your bar must sov'reign Wisdom stand.


  An H Y M N to H U M A N I T Y.
         To S. P. G. Esq;

                 I.

  LO! for this dark terrestrial ball
  Forsakes his azure-paved hall
      A prince of heav'nly birth!
  Divine Humanity behold,
  What wonders rise, what charms unfold
      At his descent to earth!

                 II.

  The bosoms of the great and good
  With wonder and delight he view'd,
      And fix'd his empire there:
  Him, close compressing to his breast,
  The sire of gods and men address'd,
      "My son, my heav'nly fair!

                 III.

  "Descend to earth, there place thy throne;
  "To succour man's afflicted son
      "Each human heart inspire:
  "To act in bounties unconfin'd
  "Enlarge the close contracted mind,
      "And fill it with thy fire."

                 IV.

  Quick as the word, with swift career
  He wings his course from star to star,
      And leaves the bright abode.
  The Virtue did his charms impart;
  Their G-----! then thy raptur'd heart
      Perceiv'd the rushing God:

                 V.

  For when thy pitying eye did see
  The languid muse in low degree,
      Then, then at thy desire
  Descended the celestial nine;
  O'er me methought they deign'd to shine,
      And deign'd to string my lyre.

                 VI.

  Can Afric's muse forgetful prove?
  Or can such friendship fail to move
      A tender human heart?
  Immortal Friendship laurel-crown'd
  The smiling Graces all surround
      With ev'ry heav'nly Art.


  To the Honourable T. H. Esq; on the Death
               of his Daughter.

