26th.--Drumming, singing, screaming, yelling, and dancing had been going
on these last two days and two nights to drive the Phepo or devil out of
a village. The whole of the ceremonies were most ludicrous. An old man
and woman, smeared with white mud, and holding pots of pombe in their
laps, sat in front of a hut, whilst other people kept constantly
bringing them baskets full of plantain-squash, and more pots of pombe.
In the courtyard fronting them, were hundreds of men and women dressed
in smart mbugus--the males wearing for turbans, strings of abrus-seeds
wound round their heads, with polished boars' tusks stuck in in a jaunty
manner. These were the people who, drunk as fifers, were keeping up
such a continual row to frighten the devil away. In the midst of this
assembly I now found Kachuchu, Rumanika's representative, who went on
ahead from Karague palace to tell Mtesa that I wished to see him. With
him, he said, were two other Wakungu of Mtesa's, who had orders to bring
on my party and Dr K'yengo's. Mtesa, he said, was so mad to see us, that
the instant he arrived at the palace and told him we wished to visit
him, the king caused "fifty big men and four hundred small ones" to be
executed, because, he said, his subjects were so bumptious they would
not allow any visitors to come near him, else he would have had white
men before.

27th.T. Smith, that enthusiastic lover of old London, it is still
possible to make the round of the gallery in the company of the
artist-proprietor. Mr. Smith visited the gardens when public patronage
had declined to a low ebb, so that he had the gallery all to himself,
as he imagined. "Stepping back to study the picture of the 'Greenstall,'
'I ask your pardon,' said I, for I had trodden on some one's toes. 'Sir,
it is granted,' replied a little, thick-set man with a round face,
arch looks, and close-curled wig, surmounted by a small three-cornered
hat put very knowingly on one side, not unlike Hogarth's head in his
print of the 'Gates of Calais.' 'You are an artist, I presume; I noticed
you from the end of the gallery, when you first stepped back to look
at my best picture. I painted all the objects in this room from nature
and still life.' 'Your Green-grocer's Shop,' said I, 'is inimitable;
the drops of water on that savoy appear as if they had just fallen from
the element. Van Huysun could not have pencilled them with greater
delicacy.' 'What do you think,' said he, 'of my Butcher's Shop?' 'Your
pluck is bleeding fresh, and your sweetbread is in a clean plate.'
'How do you like my bull's eye?' 'Why, it would be a most excellent
one for Adams or Dolland to lecture upon. Your knuckle of veal is
the finest I ever saw.' 'It's young meat,' replied he; 'any one who
is a judge of meat can tell that from the blueness of its bone.' 'What
a beautiful white you have used on the fat of that Southdown leg!
or is it Bagshot?' 'Yes,' said he, 'my solitary visitor, it is
Bagshot:
and as for my white, that is the best Nottingham, which you or any
artist can procure at Stone and Puncheon's, Bishopsgate Street
Within.'

'Sir Joshua Reynolds,' continued Mr. Keyse, 'paid me two visits. On the
second, he asked me what white I had used; and when I told him, he
observed, "It's very extraordinary, sir, that it keeps so bright. I
use the same." "Not at all, sir," I rejoined: "the doors of this
gallery are open day and night; and the admission of fresh air, together
with the great expansion of light from the sashes above, will never
suffer the white to turn yellow."'"
Then, as Bombay
would not do it, I commenced myself, assisted by some of my other men,
and pulled it down over his head, all the women who were assembled under
it, and all the property. On this, Bombay flew into a passion, abusing
the men who were helping me, as there were fires and powder-boxes under
the tent. I of course had to fly into a passion and abuse Bombay. He,
in a still greater rage, said he would pitch into the men, for the whole
place would be blown up. "That is no reason why you should abuse my
men," I said, "who are better than you by obeying my orders. If I choose
to blow up my property, that is my look-out; and if you don't do your
duty, I will blow you up also." Foaming and roaring with rage, Bombay
said he would not stand being thus insulted. I then gave him a dig
on the head with my fist. He squared up, and pouted like an enraged
chameleon, looking savagely at me. I gave him another dig, which sent
him staggering. He squared again: I gave him another; till at last, as
the claret was flowing, he sulked off, and said he would not serve me
any more. I then gave Nasib orders to take Bombay's post, and commence
the march; but the good old man made Bombay give in, and off we went,
amidst crowds of Waganda, who had collected to witness with comedy, and
were all digging at one another's heads, showing off in pantomime the
strange ways of the white man. N'yamgundu then jointed us, and begged us
to halt only one more day, as some of his women were still at Kisuere;
but Bombay, showing his nozzle rather flatter than usual, said, "No;
I got this on account of your lies. I won't tell Bana any more of
your excuses for stopping; you may tell him yourself if you like."
More distinguished members of the community than the London 'prentice
and the "red arm'd belle" frequented the gardens now and then. About
1762 the place was a favourite resort with Oliver Goldsmith, and
was the scene of a typical episode in his life. While strolling in
the gardens one afternoon he met the three daughters of a tradesman to
whom he was under obligation, and of course must needs invite them
to take tea as his guests. But when the time of reckoning came he found,
characteristically enough, that his pocket was empty.Skirting the hills on the left, with a large low plain to the right we
soon came on one of those numerous rush-drains that appear to me to
be the last waters left of the old bed of the N'yanza. This one in
particular was rather large, being 150 yards wide. It was sunk where I
crossed it, like a canal, 14 feet below the plain; and what with mire
and water combined, so deep, I was obliged to take off my trousers
whilst fording it. Once across, we sought for and put up in a village
beneath a small hill, from the top of which I saw the Victoria N'yanza
for the first time on this march. Hughes was not wholly absorbed in the
cultivation of flowers. Visions of wealth residing in that well evidently
captured his imagination, and he at once set to work fitting up
his gardens as a kind of spa, where the public could drink for his
financial benefit.We marched on again over the same kind of ground, alternately crossing
rush-drains of minor importance, though provokingly frequent, and rich
gardens, from which, as we passed, all the inhabitants bolted at the
sound of our drums, knowing well that they would be seized and punished
if found gazing at the king's visitors. Even on our arrival at Ukara not
one soul was visible. The huts of the villagers were shown to myself and
my men without any ceremony. The Wanyambo escort stole what they liked
out of them, and I got into no end of troubles trying to stop the
practice; for they said the Waganda served them the same way when they
went to Karague, and they had a right to retaliate now. To obviate this
distressing sort of plundering, I still served out beads to my men, and
so kept them in hand a little; but they were fearfully unruly, and
did not like my interference with what by the laws of the country they
considered their right.

Here I had to stop a day for some of N'yamgundu's women, who, in my
hurry at leaving Maula's, were left behind. A letter from Grant was now
brought to me by a very nice-looking young man, who had the skin of
a leopard-cat (F. No doubt the curative qualities of the waters
speedily became a secondary consideration with the patrons of the
place, but that probably troubled Mr. Hughes not at all so long as those
patrons came in sufficient numbers.

That they did come in crowds is demonstrated by the literature which
sprang up around the gardens, and by many other evidences. On its
medicinal side the place was celebrated by one poet in these strains:

"Ye gouty old souls and rheumatics crawl on, Here taste these blest
springs, and your tortures are gone; Ye wretches asthmatick,
who pant for your breath, Come drink your relief, and think not
of death.
Obey the glad summons, to Bagnigge repair, Drink deep of its waters,
and forget all your care.

"The distemper'd shall drink and forget all his pain, When his blood
flows more briskly through every vein; The headache shall vanish,
the heartache shall cease, And your lives be enjoyed in more pleasure
and peace Obey then the summons, to Bagnigge repair, And drink an
oblivion to pain and to care."

Twenty years later the muse of Bagnigge Wells was pitched in a different
key. The character of the frequenters had changed for the worse. Instead
of "gouty old souls," and "rheumatics," and "asthmaticks," the most
noted Cyprians of the day had made the place their rendezvous. So the
poet sings of
"Thy arbours, Bagnigge, and the gay alcove, Where the frail nymphs in
am'rous dalliance rove."
[Illustration: BAGNIGGE WELLS.]
Concurrently with this change the gentlemen of the road began to favour
the gardens with their presence, chief among their number being that
notorious highwayman John Rann, otherwise known as Sixteen-String Jack
from his habit of wearing a bunch of eight ribbons on each knee. But
he came to Bagnigge once too often, for, after insisting on paying
unwelcome attentions to a lady in the ball-room, he was seized by
some members of the company and thrown out of a window into the Fleet
river below.

Notwithstanding this deterioration, the proprietor of the place in
1779 in announcing the opening for the season still dwelt upon the
invaluable properties of the waters, not forgetting to add that "ladies
and gentlemen may depend on having the best of Tea, Coffee, etc.,
with hot loaves, every morning and evening." But nothing could ward
off the pending catastrophe.

"Bagnigge Wells," wrote the historian of its decline, "sported its
fountains, with little wooden cupids spouting water day and
night, but it fearfully realized the _facilis descensus Averni_. The
gardens were curtailed of their fair proportions, and this once famous
resort sank down to a threepenny concert-room." It struggled on in that
lowly guise, for a number of years, but the end came in 1841, and
now even the name of the road in which it existed is wiped off the map
of London.

More fortunate in that respect was the Bermondsey Spa, the name of which
is perpetuated to this day in the Spa Road of that malodorous neighbourhood.
This resort, which, like Bagnigge Wells, owed its creation to the
discovery of a chalybeate spring, is bound up with the life-story
of a somewhat remarkable man, Thomas Keyse by name.
Born in 1722, he became a self-taught artist of such skill that several
of his still-life paintings were deemed worthy of exhibition at
the Royal Academy.

He was also awarded a premium of thirty guineas by the Society of Arts
for a new method of fixing crayon drawings.

But thirty guineas and the glory of being an exhibitor at the Royal Academy
were hardly adequate for subsistence, and hence, somewhere about 1765,
Keyse turned to the less distinguished but more profitable occupation
of tavern-keeper. Having purchased the Waterman's Arms at Bermondsey,
with some adjoining waste land, he transformed the place into a
tea-garden. Shortly afterwards a chalybeate spring was discovered in
the grounds, an event which obliterated the name of the Waterman's
Arms in favour of the Bermondsey Spa Gardens. The ground was duly
laid out in pleasant walks, with the usual accompaniments of leafy
arbours and other quiet nooks for tea-parties. The next step was
to secure a music license, fit up an orchestra, adorn the trees
with coloured lamps, organize occasional displays of fireworks, and
challenge comparison with Vauxhall if only on a small scale. One
of the attractions reserved for special occasion was a scenic
representation of the Siege of Gibraltar, in which fireworks,
transparencies, and bomb shells played a prominent part.I was then introduced, and told that his excellency was the appointed
governor of all the land lying between the Katonga and the Kitangule
rivers. After the first formalities were over, the complaint about the
officers at Sangua was preferred for decision, on which Pokino at once
gave it against the villagers, as they had no right, by the laws of the
land, to lay hands on a king's guest. Just then Maula arrived, and
began to abuse N'yamgundu. Of course I would not stand this; and, after
telling all the facts of the case, I begged Pokino to send Maula away
out of my camp. Pokino said he could not do this, as it was by the
king's order he was appointed; but he put Maula in the background,
laughing at the way he had "let the bird fly out of his hands," and
settled that N'yamgundu should be my guide. I then gave him a wire, and
he gave me three large sheets of mbugu, which he said I should require,
as there were so many water-courses to cross on the road I was going.
A second day's halt was necessitated by many of my men catching fever,
probably owing to the constant crossing of those abominable rush-drains.
There was no want of food here, for I never saw such a profusion of
plantains anywhere. They were literally lying in heaps on the ground,
though the people were brewing pombe all day, and cooking them for
dinner every evening.

After crossing many more hills and miry bottoms, constantly coming in
view of the lake, we reached Ugonzi, and after another march of the
same description, came to Kituntu, the last officer's residence in Uddu.
Formerly it was the property of a Beluch named Eseau, who came to this
country with merchandise, trading on account of Said Said, late Sultan
of Zanzibar; but having lost it all on his way here, paying mahongo, or
taxes, and so forth he feared returning, and instead made great friends
with the late king Sunna, who took an especial fancy to him because
he had a very large beard, and raised him to the rank of Mkungu. A few
years ago, however, Eseau died, and left all his family and property to
a slave named Uledi, who now, in consequence, is the border officer.

I became now quite puzzled whilst thinking which was the finest spot I
had seen in Uddu, so many were exceedingly beautiful; but I think I gave
the preference to this, both for its own immediate neighbourhood and the
long range of view it afforded of Uganda proper, the lake, and the large
island, or group of islands, called Sese where the king of Uganda keeps
one of his fleets of boats.

Some little boys came here who had all their hair shaved off excepting
two round tufts on either side of the head. They were the king's pages;
and, producing three sticks, said they had brought them to me from their
king, who wanted three charms or medicines. Then placing one stick
on the ground before me, they said, "This one is a head which, being
affected by dreams of a deceased relative, requires relief"; the second
symbolised the king's desire for the accomplishment of a phenomenon to
which the old phalic worship was devoted; "and this third one," they
said, "is a sign that the king wants a charm to keep all his subjects in
awe of him." I then promised I would do what I could when I reached the
palace, but feared to do anything in the distance. I wished to go
on with the march, but was dissuaded by N'yamgundu, who said he had
received orders to find me some cows here, as his king was most anxious
I should be well fed. Next day, however, we descended into the Katonga
valley, where, instead of finding a magnificent broad sheet of water, as
I had been led to expect by the Arabs' account of it, I found I had to
wade through a succession of rush-drains divided one from the other by
islands. It took me two hours, with my clothes tucked up under my arms,
to get through them all; and many of them were so matted with weeds,
that my feet sank down as though I trod in a bog.

The Waganda all said that at certain times in the year no one could
ford these drains, as they all flooded; but, strangely enough, they
were always lowest when most rain fell in Uganda. No one, however, could
account for this singular fact. No one knew of a lake to supply the
waters, nor where they came from. That they flowed into the lake
there was no doubt--as I could see by the trickling waters in some few
places--and they lay exactly on the equator. Rising out of the valley,
I found all the country just as hilly as before, but many of the
rush-drains going to northward; and in the dells were such magnificent
trees, they quite took me by surprise. Clean-trunked, they towered up
just as so many great pillars, and then spread out their high branches
like a canopy over us. I thought of the blue gums of Australia,
and believed these would beat them. At the village of Mbule we were
gracefully received by the local officer, who brought a small present,
and assured me that the king was in a nervous state of excitement,
always asking after me. Whilst speaking he trembled, and he was so
restless he could never sit still.

Up and down we went on again through this wonderful country,
surprisingly rich in grass, cultivation, and trees. Watercourses were as
frequent as ever, though not quite so troublesome to the traveller, as
they were more frequently bridged with poles or palm-tree trunks.

This, the next place we arrived at, was N'yamgundu's own residence,
where I stopped a day to try and shoot buffaloes. (157) The opinion
of Maimonides was widely different. (158) He asserted that each passage
in Scripture admits of various, nay, contrary, meanings; but that we
could never be certain of any particular one till we knew that the
passage, as we interpreted it, contained nothing contrary or repugnant
to reason. (159) If the literal meaning clashes with reason, though
the passage seems in itself perfectly clear, it must be interpreted in
some metaphorical sense. (160) This doctrine he lays down very plainly
in chap. xxv. part ii. of his book, "More Nebuchim," for he says: "Know
that we shrink not from affirming that the world hath existed from
eternity, because of what Scripture saith concerning the world's
creation. (161) For the texts which teach that the world was created
are not more in number than those which teach that God hath a body;
neither are the approaches in this matter of the world's creation
closed, or even made hard to us: so that we should not be able to
explain what is written, as we did when we showed that God hath no
body, nay, peradventure, we could explain and make fast the doctrine
of the world's eternity more easily than we did away with the
doctrines that God hath a beatified body. (162) Yet two things
hinder me from doing as I have said, and believing that the world
is eternal.
(163) As it hath been clearly shown that God hath not a body, we
must perforce explain all those passages whereof the literal sense
agreeth not with the demonstration, for sure it is that they can
be so explained. (164) But the eternity of the world hath not been
so demonstrated, therefore it is not necessary to do violence to
Scripture in support of some common opinion, whereof we might, at
the bidding of reason, embrace the contrar

y
Next day, after going a short distance, we came on the Mwarango river,
a broad rush-drain of three hundred yards' span, two-thirds of which
was bridged over. Until now I did not feel sure where the various
rush-drains I had been crossing since leaving the Katonga valley all
went to, but here my mind was made up, for I found a large volume of
water going to the northwards. I took off my clothes at the end of the
bridge and jumped into the stream, which I found was twelve yards or so
broad, and deeper than my height. I was delighted beyond measure at this
very surprising fact, that I was indeed on the northern slopes of the
continent, and had, to all appearance, found one of the branches of the
Nile's exit from the N'yanza. I drew Bombay's attention to the current;
and, collecting all the men of the country, inquired of them where the
river sprang from. Some of them said, in the hills to the southward; but
most of them said, from the lake. I argued the point with them; for I
felt quite sure so large a body of flowing water could not be collected
together in any place but the lake. They then all agreed to this view,
and further assured me it went to Kamrasi's palace in Unyoro, where it
joined the N'yanza, meaning the Nile.

As has been seen in an earlier chapter, the great prototype of the
pleasure gardens of old London, Vauxhall, outlived all its competitors
for half a century. But upon even that favourite resort the changing
manners of a new time had fatal effect.They had been here a month waiting for
leave to approach the king's palace. Not a villager was to be seen for
miles round; not a plantain remained on the trees, nor was there even a
sweet potato to be found in the ground. The whole of the provisions
of this beautiful place had been devoured by the king's guests, simply
because he had been too proud to see them in a hurry. R.
Green Ribbon Club Gregorie, Robert Gresham, Sir Thomas Grimes, Jack
Guardian, The Guildhall Museum Gwynne, Nell Hackman, James Hal, Prince
Hales, John Hales, Robert Halifax, Earl of Hall, Jacob Halley Professor
Hamilton, Lord Spencer Hand and Shears tavern Handel, George Frederick
Hanover Club Harley, Edward, Earl of Oxford Harper, Bishop Harrington,
James Harvard, John Haslam, Dr Hawkins, Sir John Henry II Henry III
Henry IV Henry V Henry VI Henry VIII Herrick, Robert Hill, Aaron Hill,
Dr.Here I was also brought to a standstill, for N'yamgundu said I must
wait for leave to approach the palace. He wished to have a look at the
presents I had brought for Mtesa. I declined to gratify it, taking my
stand on my dignity; there was no occasion for any distrust on such a
trifling matter as that, for I was not a merchant who sought for gain,
but had come, at great expense, to see the king of this region. I
begged, however, he would go as fast as possible to announce my arrival,
explain my motive for coming here, and ask for an early interview, as I
had left my brother Grant behind at Karague, and found my position, for
want of a friend to talk to, almost intolerable. Hearty as were the
plaudits bestowed upon the Siege of Gibraltar, there is not much risk
in hazarding the opinion that Keyse took more pride in the picture-gallery
of his own paintings than in any other feature of his establishment.
With this message
N'yamgundu hurried off as fast as possible.

