We know that the attraction, otherwise called the weight, is in
proportion to the densities of the bodies, and inversely as the
squares of the distances.  Hence this effect:  If the earth had
been alone in space, if the other celestial bodies had been
suddenly annihilated, the projectile, according to Newton's
laws, would weigh less as it got farther from the earth, but
without ever losing its weight entirely, for the terrestrial
attraction would always have made itself felt, at whatever distance.

But, in reality, a time must come when the projectile would no
longer be subject to the law of weight, after allowing for the
other celestial bodies whose effect could not be set down as zero.
Indeed, the projectile's course was being traced between
the earth and the moon.  As it distanced the earth, the
terrestrial attraction diminished: but the lunar attraction
rose in proportion.  There must come a point where these two
attractions would neutralize each other:  the projectile would
possess weight no longer.  If the moon's and the earth's
densities had been equal, this point would have been at an equal
distance between the two orbs.  But taking the different
densities into consideration, it was easy to reckon that this
point would be situated at 47/60ths of the whole journey,
i.e., at 78,514 leagues from the earth.  At this point, a body
having no principle of speed or displacement in itself, would
remain immovable forever, being attracted equally by both orbs,
and not being drawn more toward one than toward the other.

Now if the projectile's impulsive force had been correctly
calculated, it would attain this point without speed, having
lost all trace of weight, as well as all the objects within it.
What would happen then?  Three hypotheses presented themselves.

1. Either it would retain a certain amount of motion, and pass
the point of equal attraction, and fall upon the moon by virtue
of the excess of the lunar attraction over the terrestrial.

2. Or, its speed failing, and unable to reach the point of equal
attraction, it would fall upon the moon by virtue of the excess
of the lunar attraction over the terrestrial.

3. Or, lastly, animated with sufficient speed to enable it to
reach the neutral point, but not sufficient to pass it, it would
remain forever suspended in that spot like the pretended tomb of
Mahomet, between the zenith and the nadir.

Such was their situation; and Barbicane clearly explained the
consequences to his traveling companions, which greatly
interested them.  But how should they know when the projectile
had reached this neutral point situated at that distance,
especially when neither themselves, nor the objects enclosed in
the projectile, would be any longer subject to the laws of weight?

Up to this time, the travelers, while admitting that this action
was constantly decreasing, had not yet become sensible to its
total absence.

But that day, about eleven o'clock in the morning, Nicholl
having accidentally let a glass slip from his hand, the glass,
instead of falling, remained suspended in the air.

"Ah!" exclaimed Michel Ardan, "that is rather an amusing piece
of natural philosophy."

And immediately divers other objects, firearms and bottles,
abandoned to themselves, held themselves up as by enchantment.
Diana too, placed in space by Michel, reproduced, but without
any trick, the wonderful suspension practiced by Caston and
Robert Houdin.  Indeed the dog did not seem to know that she was
floating in air.

The three adventurous companions were surprised and stupefied,
despite their scientific reasonings.  They felt themselves being
carried into the domain of wonders! they felt that weight was
really wanting to their bodies.  If they stretched out their
arms, they did not attempt to fall.  Their heads shook on
their shoulders.  Their feet no longer clung to the floor of
the projectile.  They were like drunken men having no stability
in themselves.

Fancy has depicted men without reflection, others without shadow.
But here reality, by the neutralizations of attractive forces,
produced men in whom nothing had any weight, and who weighed
nothing themselves.

Suddenly Michel, taking a spring, left the floor and remained
suspended in the air, like Murillo's monk of the Cusine des Anges.

The two friends joined him instantly, and all three formed a
miraculous "Ascension" in the center of the projectile.

"Is it to be believed? is it probable? is it possible?"
exclaimed Michel; "and yet it is so.  Ah! if Raphael had seen us
thus, what an `Assumption' he would have thrown upon canvas!"

"The `Assumption' cannot last," replied Barbicane.  "If the
projectile passes the neutral point, the lunar attraction will
draw us to the moon."

"Then our feet will be upon the roof," replied Michel.

"No," said Barbicane, "because the projectile's center of
gravity is very low; it will only turn by degrees."

"Then all our portables will be upset from top to bottom, that
is a fact."

"Calm yourself, Michel," replied Nicholl; "no upset is to be
feared; not a thing will move, for the projectile's evolution
will be imperceptible."

"Just so," continued Barbicane; "and when it has passed the
point of equal attraction, its base, being the heavier, will
draw it perpendicularly to the moon; but, in order that this
phenomenon should take place, we must have passed the neutral line."

"Pass the neutral line," cried Michel; "then let us do as the
sailors do when they cross the equator."

A slight side movement brought Michel back toward the padded
side; thence he took a bottle and glasses, placed them "in
space" before his companions, and, drinking merrily, they
saluted the line with a triple hurrah.  The influence of these
attractions scarcely lasted an hour; the travelers felt
themselves insensibly drawn toward the floor, and Barbicane
fancied that the conical end of the projectile was varying a
little from its normal direction toward the moon.  By an inverse
motion the base was approaching first; the lunar attraction was
prevailing over the terrestrial; the fall toward the moon was
beginning, almost imperceptibly as yet, but by degrees the
attractive force would become stronger, the fall would be more
decided, the projectile, drawn by its base, would turn its cone
to the earth, and fall with ever-increasing speed on to the
surface of the Selenite continent; their destination would then
be attained.  Now nothing could prevent the success of their
enterprise, and Nicholl and Michel Ardan shared Barbicane's joy.

Then they chatted of all the phenomena which had astonished them
one after the other, particularly the neutralization of the laws
of weight.  Michel Ardan, always enthusiastic, drew conclusions
which were purely fanciful.

"Ah, my worthy friends," he exclaimed, "what progress we should
make if on earth we could throw off some of that weight, some of
that chain which binds us to her; it would be the prisoner set
at liberty; no more fatigue of either arms or legs.  Or, if it
is true that in order to fly on the earth's surface, to keep
oneself suspended in the air merely by the play of the muscles,
there requires a strength a hundred and fifty times greater than
that which we possess, a simple act of volition, a caprice,
would bear us into space, if attraction did not exist."

"Just so," said Nicholl, smiling; "if we could succeed in
suppressing weight as they suppress pain by anaesthesia,
that would change the face of modern society!"

"Yes," cried Michel, full of his subject, "destroy weight, and
no more burdens!"

"Well said," replied Barbicane; "but if nothing had any weight,
nothing would keep in its place, not even your hat on your head,
worthy Michel; nor your house, whose stones only adhere by
weight; nor a boat, whose stability on the waves is only caused
by weight; not even the ocean, whose waves would no longer be
equalized by terrestrial attraction; and lastly, not even the
atmosphere, whose atoms, being no longer held in their places,
would disperse in space!"

"That is tiresome," retorted Michel; "nothing like these
matter-of-fact people for bringing one back to the bare reality."

"But console yourself, Michel," continued Barbicane, "for if no
orb exists from whence all laws of weight are banished, you are
at least going to visit one where it is much less than on the earth."

"The moon?"

"Yes, the moon, on whose surface objects weigh six times less
than on the earth, a phenomenon easy to prove."

"And we shall feel it?" asked Michel.

"Evidently, as two hundred pounds will only weigh thirty pounds
on the surface of the moon."

"And our muscular strength will not diminish?"

"Not at all; instead of jumping one yard high, you will rise
eighteen feet high."

"But we shall be regular Herculeses in the moon!" exclaimed Michel.

"Yes," replied Nicholl; "for if the height of the Selenites is
in proportion to the density of their globe, they will be
scarcely a foot high."

"Lilliputians!" ejaculated Michel; "I shall play the part
of Gulliver.  We are going to realize the fable of the giants.
This is the advantage of leaving one's own planet and
over-running the solar world."

"One moment, Michel," answered Barbicane; "if you wish to play
the part of Gulliver, only visit the inferior planets, such as
Mercury, Venus, or Mars, whose density is a little less than
that of the earth; but do not venture into the great planets,
Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, Neptune; for there the order will be
changed, and you will become Lilliputian."

"And in the sun?"

"In the sun, if its density is thirteen hundred and twenty-four
thousand times greater, and the attraction is twenty-seven times
greater than on the surface of our globe, keeping everything in
proportion, the inhabitants ought to be at least two hundred
feet high."

"By Jove!" exclaimed Michel; "I should be nothing more than a
pigmy, a shrimp!"

"Gulliver with the giants," said Nicholl.

"Just so," replied Barbicane.

"And it would not be quite useless to carry some pieces of
artillery to defend oneself."

"Good," replied Nicholl; "your projectiles would have no effect
on the sun; they would fall back upon the earth after some minutes."

"That is a strong remark."

"It is certain," replied Barbicane; "the attraction is so great
on this enormous orb, that an object weighing 70,000 pounds on
the earth would weigh but 1,920 pounds on the surface of the sun.
If you were to fall upon it you would weigh-- let me see-- about
5,000 pounds, a weight which you would never be able to raise again."

"The devil!" said Michel; "one would want a portable crane.
However, we will be satisfied with the moon for the present;
there at least we shall cut a great figure.  We will see about
the sun by and by."


CHAPTER IX


THE CONSEQUENCES OF A DEVIATION


Barbicane had now no fear of the issue of the journey, at least
as far as the projectile's impulsive force was concerned; its
own speed would carry it beyond the neutral line; it would
certainly not return to earth; it would certainly not remain
motionless on the line of attraction.  One single hypothesis
remained to be realized, the arrival of the projectile at its
destination by the action of the lunar attraction.

It was in reality a fall of 8,296 leagues on an orb, it is true,
where weight could only be reckoned at one sixth of terrestrial
weight; a formidable fall, nevertheless, and one against which
every precaution must be taken without delay.

These precautions were of two sorts, some to deaden the shock
when the projectile should touch the lunar soil, others to delay
the fall, and consequently make it less violent.

To deaden the shock, it was a pity that Barbicane was no longer
able to employ the means which had so ably weakened the shock at
departure, that is to say, by water used as springs and the
partition breaks.

The partitions still existed, but water failed, for they could
not use their reserve, which was precious, in case during the
first days the liquid element should be found wanting on lunar soil.

And indeed this reserve would have been quite insufficient for
a spring.  The layer of water stored in the projectile at
the time of starting upon their journey occupied no less than
three feet in depth, and spread over a surface of not less than
fifty-four square feet.  Besides, the cistern did not contain
one-fifth part of it; they must therefore give up this efficient
means of deadening the shock of arrival.  Happily, Barbicane,
not content with employing water, had furnished the movable disc
with strong spring plugs, destined to lessen the shock against
the base after the breaking of the horizontal partitions.
These plugs still existed; they had only to readjust them and
replace the movable disc; every piece, easy to handle, as their
weight was now scarcely felt, was quickly mounted.

The different pieces were fitted without trouble, it being only
a matter of bolts and screws; tools were not wanting, and soon
the reinstated disc lay on steel plugs, like a table on its legs.
One inconvenience resulted from the replacing of the disc,
the lower window was blocked up; thus it was impossible for
the travelers to observe the moon from that opening while
they were being precipitated perpendicularly upon her; but they
were obliged to give it up; even by the side openings they could
still see vast lunar regions, as an aeronaut sees the earth from
his car.

This replacing of the disc was at least an hour's work.  It was
past twelve when all preparations were finished.  Barbicane took
fresh observations on the inclination of the projectile, but to
his annoyance it had not turned over sufficiently for its fall;
it seemed to take a curve parallel to the lunar disc.  The orb
of night shone splendidly into space, while opposite, the orb of
day blazed with fire.

Their situation began to make them uneasy.

"Are we reaching our destination?" said Nicholl.

"Let us act as if we were about reaching it," replied Barbicane.

"You are sceptical," retorted Michel Ardan.  "We shall arrive,
and that, too, quicker than we like."

This answer brought Barbicane back to his preparations, and he
occupied himself with placing the contrivances intended to break
their descent.  We may remember the scene of the meeting held at
Tampa Town, in Florida, when Captain Nicholl came forward as
Barbicane's enemy and Michel Ardan's adversary.  To Captain
Nicholl's maintaining that the projectile would smash like glass,
Michel replied that he would break their fall by means of rockets
properly placed.

Thus, powerful fireworks, taking their starting-point from the
base and bursting outside, could, by producing a recoil, check
to a certain degree the projectile's speed.  These rockets were
to burn in space, it is true; but oxygen would not fail them,
for they could supply themselves with it, like the lunar
volcanoes, the burning of which has never yet been stopped by
the want of atmosphere round the moon.

Barbicane had accordingly supplied himself with these fireworks,
enclosed in little steel guns, which could be screwed on to the
base of the projectile.  Inside, these guns were flush with the
bottom; outside, they protruded about eighteen inches.  There were
twenty of them.  An opening left in the disc allowed them to light
the match with which each was provided.  All the effect was
felt outside.  The burning mixture had already been rammed
into each gun.  They had, then, nothing to do but raise the
metallic buffers fixed in the base, and replace them by the
guns, which fitted closely in their places.

This new work was finished about three o'clock, and after taking
all these precautions there remained but to wait.  But the
projectile was perceptibly nearing the moon, and evidently
succumbed to her influence to a certain degree; though its
own velocity also drew it in an oblique direction.  From these
conflicting influences resulted a line which might become
a tangent.  But it was certain that the projectile would not
fall directly on the moon; for its lower part, by reason of
its weight, ought to be turned toward her.

Barbicane's uneasiness increased as he saw his projectile resist
the influence of gravitation.  The Unknown was opening before
him, the Unknown in interplanetary space.  The man of science
thought he had foreseen the only three hypotheses possible-- the
return to the earth, the return to the moon, or stagnation on
the neutral line; and here a fourth hypothesis, big with all the
terrors of the Infinite, surged up inopportunely.  To face it
without flinching, one must be a resolute savant like Barbicane,
a phlegmatic being like Nicholl, or an audacious adventurer like
Michel Ardan.

Conversation was started upon this subject.  Other men would
have considered the question from a practical point of view;
they would have asked themselves whither their projectile
carriage was carrying them.  Not so with these; they sought for
the cause which produced this effect.

"So we have become diverted from our route," said Michel; "but why?"

"I very much fear," answered Nicholl, "that, in spite of
all precautions taken, the Columbiad was not fairly pointed.
An error, however small, would be enough to throw us out of
the moon's attraction."

"Then they must have aimed badly?" asked Michel.

"I do not think so," replied Barbicane.  "The perpendicularity
of the gun was exact, its direction to the zenith of the spot
incontestible; and the moon passing to the zenith of the spot,
we ought to reach it at the full.  There is another reason,
but it escapes me."

"Are we not arriving too late?" asked Nicholl.

"Too late?" said Barbicane.

"Yes," continued Nicholl.  "The Cambridge Observatory's note
says that the transit ought to be accomplished in ninety-seven
hours thirteen minutes and twenty seconds; which means to say,
that sooner the moon will not be at the point indicated, and
later it will have passed it."

"True," replied Barbicane.  "But we started the 1st of December,
at thirteen minutes and twenty-five seconds to eleven at night;
and we ought to arrive on the 5th at midnight, at the exact
moment when the moon would be full; and we are now at the
5th of December.  It is now half-past three in the evening;
half-past eight ought to see us at the end of our journey.
Why do we not arrive?"

"Might it not be an excess of speed?" answered Nicholl; "for we
know now that its initial velocity was greater than they supposed."

"No! a hundred times, no!" replied Barbicane.  "An excess of
speed, if the direction of the projectile had been right, would
not have prevented us reaching the moon.  No, there has been
a deviation.  We have been turned out of our course."

"By whom? by what?" asked Nicholl.

"I cannot say," replied Barbicane.

"Very well, then, Barbicane," said Michel, "do you wish to know
my opinion on the subject of finding out this deviation?"

"Speak."

"I would not give half a dollar to know it.  That we have
deviated is a fact.  Where we are going matters little; we shall
soon see.  Since we are being borne along in space we shall end
by falling into some center of attraction or other."

Michel Ardan's indifference did not content Barbicane.  Not that
he was uneasy about the future, but he wanted to know at any
cost why his projectile had deviated.

But the projectile continued its course sideways to the moon,
and with it the mass of things thrown out.  Barbicane could even
prove, by the elevations which served as landmarks upon the
moon, which was only two thousand leagues distant, that its
speed was becoming uniform-- fresh proof that there was no fall.
Its impulsive force still prevailed over the lunar attraction,
but the projectile's course was certainly bringing it nearer to
the moon, and they might hope that at a nearer point the weight,
predominating, would cause a decided fall.

The three friends, having nothing better to do, continued their
observations; but they could not yet determine the topographical
position of the satellite; every relief was leveled under the
reflection of the solar rays.

They watched thus through the side windows until eight o'clock
at night.  The moon had grown so large in their eyes that it
filled half of the firmament.  The sun on one side, and the orb
of night on the other, flooded the projectile with light.

At that moment Barbicane thought he could estimate the distance
which separated them from their aim at no more than 700 leagues.
The speed of the projectile seemed to him to be more than 200
yards, or about 170 leagues a second.  Under the centripetal
force, the base of the projectile tended toward the moon; but
the centrifugal still prevailed; and it was probable that its
rectilineal course would be changed to a curve of some sort,
the nature of which they could not at present determine.

Barbicane was still seeking the solution of his insoluble problem.
Hours passed without any result.  The projectile was evidently
nearing the moon, but it was also evident that it would never
reach her.  As to the nearest distance at which it would pass her,
that must be the result of two forces, attraction and repulsion,
affecting its motion.

"I ask but one thing," said Michel; "that we may pass near
enough to penetrate her secrets."

"Cursed be the thing that has caused our projectile to deviate
from its course," cried Nicholl.

And, as if a light had suddenly broken in upon his mind, Barbicane
answered, "Then cursed be the meteor which crossed our path."

"What?" said Michel Ardan.

"What do you mean?" exclaimed Nicholl.

"I mean," said Barbicane in a decided tone, "I mean that our
deviation is owing solely to our meeting with this erring body."

"But it did not even brush us as it passed," said Michel.

"What does that matter?  Its mass, compared to that of our
projectile, was enormous, and its attraction was enough to
influence our course."

"So little?" cried Nicholl.

"Yes, Nicholl; but however little it might be," replied
Barbicane, "in a distance of 84,000 leagues, it wanted no more
to make us miss the moon."


CHAPTER X


THE OBSERVERS OF THE MOON


Barbicane had evidently hit upon the only plausible reason
of this deviation.  However slight it might have been, it
had sufficed to modify the course of the projectile.  It was
a fatality.  The bold attempt had miscarried by a fortuitous
circumstance; and unless by some exceptional event, they could
now never reach the moon's disc.

Would they pass near enough to be able to solve certain physical
and geological questions until then insoluble?  This was the
question, and the only one, which occupied the minds of these
bold travelers.  As to the fate in store for themselves, they
did not even dream of it.

But what would become of them amid these infinite solitudes,
these who would soon want air?  A few more days, and they would
fall stifled in this wandering projectile.  But some days to
these intrepid fellows was a century; and they devoted all their
time to observe that moon which they no longer hoped to reach.

The distance which had then separated the projectile from the
satellite was estimated at about two hundred leagues.  Under these
conditions, as regards the visibility of the details of the disc,
the travelers were farther from the moon than are the inhabitants
of earth with their powerful telescopes.

Indeed, we know that the instrument mounted by Lord Rosse at
Parsonstown, which magnifies 6,500 times, brings the moon to
within an apparent distance of sixteen leagues.  And more than
that, with the powerful one set up at Long's Peak, the orb of
night, magnified 48,000 times, is brought to within less than
two leagues, and objects having a diameter of thirty feet are
seen very distinctly.  So that, at this distance, the
topographical details of the moon, observed without glasses,
could not be determined with precision.  The eye caught the vast
outline of those immense depressions inappropriately called
"seas," but they could not recognize their nature.  The prominence
of the mountains disappeared under the splendid irradiation
produced by the reflection of the solar rays.  The eye, dazzled
as if it was leaning over a bath of molten silver, turned from
it involuntarily; but the oblong form of the orb was quite clear.
It appeared like a gigantic egg, with the small end turned toward
the earth.  Indeed the moon, liquid and pliable in the first days
of its formation, was originally a perfect sphere; but being soon
drawn within the attraction of the earth, it became elongated
under the influence of gravitation.  In becoming a satellite,
she lost her native purity of form; her center of gravity was in
advance of the center of her figure; and from this fact some
savants draw the conclusion that the air and water had taken
refuge on the opposite surface of the moon, which is never seen
from the earth.  This alteration in the primitive form of the
satellite was only perceptible for a few moments.  The distance
of the projectile from the moon diminished very rapidly under
its speed, though that was much less than its initial velocity--
but eight or nine times greater than that which propels our
express trains.  The oblique course of the projectile, from its
very obliquity, gave Michel Ardan some hopes of striking the
lunar disc at some point or other.  He could not think that they
would never reach it.  No! he could not believe it; and this
opinion he often repeated.  But Barbicane, who was a better
judge, always answered him with merciless logic.

"No, Michel, no!  We can only reach the moon by a fall, and we
are not falling.  The centripetal force keeps us under the
moon's influence, but the centrifugal force draws us
irresistibly away from it."

This was said in a tone which quenched Michel Ardan's last hope.

The portion of the moon which the projectile was nearing was the
northern hemisphere, that which the selenographic maps place
below; for these maps are generally drawn after the outline
given by the glasses, and we know that they reverse the objects.
Such was the Mappa Selenographica of Boeer and Moedler which
Barbicane consulted.  This northern hemisphere presented vast
plains, dotted with isolated mountains.

At midnight the moon was full.  At that precise moment the
travelers should have alighted upon it, if the mischievous
meteor had not diverted their course.  The orb was exactly in
the condition determined by the Cambridge Observatory.  It was
mathematically at its perigee, and at the zenith of the
twenty-eighth parallel.  An observer placed at the bottom of the
enormous Columbiad, pointed perpendicularly to the horizon,
would have framed the moon in the mouth of the gun.  A straight
line drawn through the axis of the piece would have passed
through the center of the orb of night.  It is needless to say,
that during the night of the 5th-6th of December, the travelers
took not an instant's rest.  Could they close their eyes when so
near this new world?  No!  All their feelings were concentrated
in one single thought:-- See!  Representatives of the earth, of
humanity, past and present, all centered in them!  It is through
their eyes that the human race look at these lunar regions, and
penetrate the secrets of their satellite!  A strange emotion
filled their hearts as they went from one window to the other.
Their observations, reproduced by Barbicane, were rigidly determined.
To take them, they had glasses; to correct them, maps.

As regards the optical instruments at their disposal, they had
excellent marine glasses specially constructed for this journey.
They possessed magnifying powers of 100.  They would thus have
brought the moon to within a distance (apparent) of less than
2,000 leagues from the earth.  But then, at a distance which for
three hours in the morning did not exceed sixty-five miles, and
in a medium free from all atmospheric disturbances, these
instruments could reduce the lunar surface to within less than
1,500 yards!


CHAPTER XI


FANCY AND REALITY


"Have you ever seen the moon?" asked a professor, ironically,
of one of his pupils.

"No, sir!" replied the pupil, still more ironically, "but I must
say I have heard it spoken of."

In one sense, the pupil's witty answer might be given by a large
majority of sublunary beings.  How many people have heard speak
of the moon who have never seen it-- at least through a glass or
a telescope!  How many have never examined the map of their satellite!

In looking at a selenographic map, one peculiarity strikes us.
Contrary to the arrangement followed for that of the Earth and
Mars, the continents occupy more particularly the southern
hemisphere of the lunar globe.  These continents do not show
such decided, clear, and regular boundary lines as South
America, Africa, and the Indian peninsula.  Their angular,
capricious, and deeply indented coasts are rich in gulfs
and peninsulas.  They remind one of the confusion in the
islands of the Sound, where the land is excessively indented.
If navigation ever existed on the surface of the moon, it must
have been wonderfully difficult and dangerous; and we may well
pity the Selenite sailors and hydrographers; the former, when
they came upon these perilous coasts, the latter when they
took the soundings of its stormy banks.

We may also notice that, on the lunar sphere, the south pole is
much more continental than the north pole.  On the latter, there
is but one slight strip of land separated from other continents
by vast seas.  Toward the south, continents clothe almost the
whole of the hemisphere.  It is even possible that the Selenites
have already planted the flag on one of their poles, while
Franklin, Ross, Kane, Dumont, d'Urville, and Lambert have never
yet been able to attain that unknown point of the terrestrial globe.

As to islands, they are numerous on the surface of the moon.
Nearly all oblong or circular, and as if traced with the
compass, they seem to form one vast archipelago, equal to that
charming group lying between Greece and Asia Minor, and which
mythology in ancient times adorned with most graceful legends.
Involuntarily the names of Naxos, Tenedos, and Carpathos, rise
before the mind, and we seek vainly for Ulysses' vessel or the
"clipper" of the Argonauts.  So at least it was in Michel
Ardan's eyes.  To him it was a Grecian archipelago that he saw
on the map.  To the eyes of his matter-of-fact companions, the
aspect of these coasts recalled rather the parceled-out land of
New Brunswick and Nova Scotia, and where the Frenchman
discovered traces of the heroes of fable, these Americans
were marking the most favorable points for the establishment
of stores in the interests of lunar commerce and industry.

After wandering over these vast continents, the eye is attracted
by the still greater seas.  Not only their formation, but their
situation and aspect remind one of the terrestrial oceans; but
again, as on earth, these seas occupy the greater portion of
the globe.  But in point of fact, these are not liquid spaces,
but plains, the nature of which the travelers hoped soon
to determine.  Astronomers, we must allow, have graced these
pretended seas with at least odd names, which science has
respected up to the present time.  Michel Ardan was right when
he compared this map to a "Tendre card," got up by a Scudary or
a Cyrano de Bergerac.  "Only," said he, "it is no longer the
sentimental card of the seventeenth century, it is the card of
life, very neatly divided into two parts, one feminine, the
other masculine; the right hemisphere for woman, the left for man."

In speaking thus, Michel made his prosaic companions shrug
their shoulders.  Barbicane and Nicholl looked upon the lunar
map from a very different point of view to that of their
fantastic friend.  Nevertheless, their fantastic friend was a
little in the right.  Judge for yourselves.

In the left hemisphere stretches the "Sea of Clouds," where
human reason is so often shipwrecked.  Not far off lies the "Sea
of Rains," fed by all the fever of existence.  Near this is the
"Sea of Storms," where man is ever fighting against his
passions, which too often gain the victory.  Then, worn out by
deceit, treasons, infidelity, and the whole body of terrestrial
misery, what does he find at the end of his career? that vast
"Sea of Humors," barely softened by some drops of the waters
from the "Gulf of Dew!"  Clouds, rain, storms, and humors-- does
the life of man contain aught but these? and is it not summed up
in these four words?

The right hemisphere, "dedicated to the ladies," encloses
smaller seas, whose significant names contain every incident of
a feminine existence.  There is the "Sea of Serenity," over
which the young girl bends; "The Lake of Dreams," reflecting a
joyous future; "The Sea of Nectar," with its waves of tenderness
and breezes of love; "The Sea of Fruitfulness;" "The Sea of
Crises;" then the "Sea of Vapors," whose dimensions are perhaps
a little too confined; and lastly, that vast "Sea of
Tranquillity," in which every false passion, every useless
dream, every unsatisfied desire is at length absorbed, and whose
waves emerge peacefully into the "Lake of Death!"

What a strange succession of names!  What a singular division of
the moon's two hemispheres, joined to one another like man and
woman, and forming that sphere of life carried into space!
And was not the fantastic Michel right in thus interpreting the
fancies of the ancient astronomers?  But while his imagination
thus roved over "the seas," his grave companions were considering
things more geographically.  They were learning this new world
by heart.  They were measuring angles and diameters.


CHAPTER XII


OROGRAPHIC DETAILS


The course taken by the projectile, as we have before remarked, was
bearing it toward the moon's northern hemisphere.  The travelers
were far from the central point which they would have struck,
had their course not been subject to an irremediable deviation.
It was past midnight; and Barbicane then estimated the distance
at seven hundred and fifty miles, which was a little greater than
the length of the lunar radius, and which would diminish as it
advanced nearer to the North Pole.  The projectile was then not
at the altitude of the equator; but across the tenth parallel,
and from that latitude, carefully taken on the map to the pole,
Barbicane and his two companions were able to observe the moon
under the most favorable conditions.  Indeed, by means of glasses,
the above-named distance was reduced to little more than
fourteen miles.  The telescope of the Rocky Mountains brought
the moon much nearer; but the terrestrial atmosphere singularly
lessened its power.  Thus Barbicane, posted in his projectile,
with the glasses to his eyes, could seize upon details which were
almost imperceptible to earthly observers.

