To the indefatigable exertions of this gentleman is the Western world
indebted for the possession of this splendid museum. Mr. Peale is,
moreover, an excellent artist. Look attentively, I pray you, at the
portrait he has taken of himself, by desire of the State of Pennsylvania.
On entering the room he appears in the act of holding up a curtain to show
you his curiosities. The effect of the light upon his head is infinitely
striking. I have never seen anything finer in the way of light and shade.
The skeleton of the mammoth is a national treasure. I could form but a
faint idea of it by description until I had seen it. It is the most
magnificent skeleton in the world. The city ought never to forget the great
expense Mr. Peale was put to, and the skill and energy he showed during the
many months he spent in searching the swamps where these enormous bones had
been concealed from the eyes of the world for centuries.

The extensive squares of this city are ornamented with well-grown and
luxuriant trees. Its unremitting attention to literature might cause it to
be styled the Athens of the United States. Here learning and science have
taken up their abode. The literary and philosophical associations, the
enthusiasm of individuals, the activity of the press and the cheapness of
the publications ought to raise the name of Philadelphia to an elevated
situation in the temple of knowledge.

From the press of this city came Wilson's famous _Ornithology_. By
observing the birds in their native haunts he has been enabled to purge
their history of numberless absurdities which inexperienced theorists had
introduced into it. It is a pleasing and a brilliant work. We have no
description of birds in any European publication that can come up to this.
By perusing Wilson's _Ornithology_ attentively before I left England I
knew where to look for the birds, and immediately recognised them in their
native land.

Since his time I fear that the white-headed eagles have been much thinned.
I was perpetually looking out for them, but saw very few. One or two came
now and then and soared in lofty flight over the Falls of Niagara. The
Americans are proud of this bird in effigy, and their hearts rejoice when
its banner is unfurled. Could they not then be persuaded to protect the
white-headed eagle, and allow it to glide in safety over its own native
forests? Were I an American I should think I had committed a kind of
sacrilege in killing the white-headed eagle. The ibis was held sacred by
the Egyptians; the Hollanders protect the stork; the vulture sits
unmolested on the top of the houses in the city of Angustura; and Robin
Redbreast, for his charity, is cherished by the English:

  No burial these pretty babes
  Of any man receives,
  Till Robin-red-breast painfully.
  Did cover them with leaves. [Footnote]

[Footnote: The fault against grammar is lost in the beauty of the idea.]

Poor Wilson was smote by the hand of death before he had finished his work.
Prince Charles Buonaparte, nephew to the late Emperor Napoleon, aided by
some of the most scientific gentlemen of Pennsylvania, is continuing this
valuable and interesting publication.

New York, with great propriety, may be called the commercial capital of the
new world:

  Urbs augusta potens, nulli cessura.

Ere long it will be on the coast of North America what Tyre once was on
that of Syria. In her port are the ships of all nations, and in her streets
is displayed merchandise from all parts of the known world. And then the
approach to it is so enchanting! The verdant fields, the woody hills, the
farms and country-houses form a beautiful landscape as you sail up to the
city of New York.

Broadway is the principal street. It is three miles and a half long. I am
at a loss to know where to look for a street in any part of the world which
has so many attractions as this. There are no steam-engines to annoy you by
filling the atmosphere full of soot and smoke; the houses have a stately
appearance; while the eye is relieved from the perpetual sameness, which is
common in most streets, by lofty and luxuriant trees.

Nothing can surpass the appearance of the American ladies when they take
their morning walk from twelve to three in Broadway. The stranger will at
once see that they have rejected the extravagant superfluities which appear
in the London and Parisian fashions, and have only retained as much of
those costumes as is becoming to the female form. This, joined to their own
just notions of dress, is what renders the New York ladies so elegant in
their attire. The way they wear the Leghorn hat deserves a remark or two.
With us the formal hand of the milliner binds down the brim to one fixed
shape, and that none of the handsomest. The wearer is obliged to turn her
head full ninety degrees before she can see the person who is standing by
her side. But in New York the ladies have the brim of the hat not fettered
with wire or tape or ribbon, but quite free and undulating; and by applying
the hand to it they can conceal or expose as much of the face as
circumstances require. This hiding and exposing of the face, by the by, is
certainly a dangerous movement, and often fatal to the passing swain. I am
convinced, in my own mind, that many a determined and unsuspecting bachelor
has been shot down by this sudden manoeuvre before he was aware that he was
within reach of the battery.

The American ladies seem to have an abhorrence (and a very just one, too)
of wearing caps. When one considers for a moment that women wear the hair
long, which Nature has given them both for an ornament and to keep the head
warm, one is apt to wonder by what perversion of good taste they can be
induced to enclose it in a cap. A mob-cap, a lace-cap, a low cap, a high
cap, a flat cap, a cap with ribbons dangling loose, a cap with ribbons tied
under the chin, a peak-cap, an angular cap, a round cap and a pyramid cap!
How would Canova's Venus look in a mob-cap? If there be any ornament to the
head in wearing a cap, it must surely be a false ornament. The American
ladies are persuaded that the head can be ornamented without a cap. A
rosebud or two, a woodbine, or a sprig of eglantine look well in the
braided hair; and if there be raven locks, a lily or a snowdrop may be
interwoven with effect.

Now that the packets are so safe, and make such quick passages to the
United States, it would be as well if some of our head milliners would go
on board of them in lieu of getting into the diligence for Paris. They
would bring back more taste and less caricature. And if they could persuade
a dozen or two of the farmer's servant-girls to return with them, we should
soon have proof-positive that as good butter and cheese may be made with
the hair braided up, and a daisy or primrose in it, as butter and cheese
made in a cap of barbarous shape, washed, perhaps, in soapsuds last new
moon.

New York has very good hotels and genteel boarding-houses. All charges
included, you do not pay above two dollars a day. Little enough, when you
consider the capital accommodations and the abundance of food.

In this city, as well as in others which I visited, everybody seemed to
walk at his ease. I could see no inclination for jostling, no impertinent
staring at you, nor attempts to create a row in order to pick your pocket.
I would stand for an hour together in Broadway to observe the passing
multitude. SYDNEY STRONG.

A speaker at our Toledo meeting two years ago, when she had told of
her life work in China, closed her remarks by saying: "American sisters, the
women of China look to you for their examples of Christian womanhood.
Do not disappoint them: for if you do, it will be the greatest
blow foreign missions can have."

During the past year, in our work in Ohio, when I have known so much of the
needs over this broad land of ours, I have wondered continually what some
of the Christian converts of China would think could they visit our shores
and go into the mountains in our Southern land and see the women there,
how perfectly ignorant they are, some of them not even knowing their
alphabet, and, what is sadder still, not even knowing that they are hundreds
of years behind the women living but a few miles from their mountain
home.

If these Chinese converts could go down from the mountains into the plains
and see our negro sister there in her cabin home, and realize how she
is oppressed and how so few there care for her soul; if they could go
into the West and visit the Indians, and realize how America has
treated the Indian, how she has given him land until she wanted it herself
and then has taken it, and pushed him farther West until now she has him
in a place where the land is so poor it is not likely she will ever want
it; if they could go and see their Chinese sisters--their own flesh
and blood--and realize that America had the opportunity right at her own
door of teaching and raising up Christian Chinese women to go back and
teach their own kindred the "old, old story," what do you suppose they would
think of Christian America? My sisters, what do you think of it? Are these
conditions due to lack of money? We can all give when we are interested.
Poverty is a thing of comparison. We are all poor compared with our
neighbor on the avenue, and we are all rich compared with our neighbor who
lived on crusts of bread last week and knows not where her crusts
are coming from this week.

No, my friends, we can give when we are interested.

In this connection I have been thinking a little of a dear friend, who when
asked if she could not increase her contribution to five dollars
for the work this coming year, said: "Possibly I can another year, but this
year I cannot, for I am going abroad and I have to economize." "Economy!"
Is not that just the place it always begins? Can we look back over the
last two years, those of us who have been affected by the hard times, and
truthfully say that we did not begin at the giving end to economize?
It seems to me that this is just where we all make our mistakes. Is not
this just the reason why our church work is so cold and lifeless? We are
trying to do Christ's work in man's way and we can no more do it than the
Indian we are told about, who tried to run the machine controlled
by electricity in his own way rather than in the way the inventor
intended it to be run.

God has given us a plan for doing this work and saving souls, and we are
trying man's way rather than God's way. What is man's way? It is to
do church work, go to missionary societies, and give--when we have time and
money. What is God's way? "Bring ye all the tithes into the storehouse,
and prove me now herewith, saith your God, and see if I will not open the
windows of heaven and pour you out a blessing." Have we done it? Have we
brought the tithes all in?

We use much more wisdom in material things often than we do in spiritual
things. Can we not learn a lesson from the farmer? What does God say to
the farmer! "Sow, and ye shall also reap." But the farmer says, "I cannot;
I haven't enough. If I had plenty I would sow, but I haven't. My family
could not live as well as my neighbor; we could not set a good enough table;
we might even have to go hungry." But the command comes again: "Sow, and ye
shall also reap," and I venture to say that there is not a farmer in this
country of ours but who would go hungry, yea, he and his children would
go bare-footed, but he would take some portion of the grain that he had and
throw it broadcast over his field, knowing that it would lie there and
decay, but trusting in the Lord that it would come back to him after many
days. Why cannot we use the same wisdom in spiritual matters?

But there is something that is of more value even than money. It seems to me
that the one thing we need is more consecrated women in our churches, women
that have more love for their Master and for his cause, women that do not
do this work from a sense of duty, but because they love their Lord and
Saviour."De
gustibus non est disputandum."

Our Western brother is in possession of a country replete with everything
that can contribute to the happiness and comfort of mankind. His code of
laws, purified by experience and common-sense, has fully answered the
expectations of the public. By acting up to the true spirit of this code he
has reaped immense advantages from it. His advancement as a nation has been
rapid beyond all calculation, and, young as he is, it may be remarked
without any impropriety that he is now actually reading a salutary lesson
to the rest of the civilised world.

It is but some forty years ago that he had the dispute with his nurse about
a dish of tea. She wanted to force the boy to drink it according to her own
receipt. He said he did not like it, and that it absolutely made him ill.
After a good deal of sparring she took up the birch-rod and began to whip
him with an uncommon degree of asperity. When the poor lad found that he
must either drink the nauseous dish of tea or be flogged to death, he
turned upon her in self-defence, showed her to the outside of the nursery-
door, and never more allowed her to meddle with his affairs.

Since the Independence the population has increased from three to ten
millions. A fine navy has been built, and everything attended to that could
ensure prosperity at home and respect abroad.

The former wilds of North America bear ample testimony to the achievements
of this enterprising people. Forests have been cleared away, swamps
drained, canals dug and flourishing settlements established. From the
shores of the Atlantic an immense column of knowledge has rolled into the
interior. The Mississippi, the Ohio, the Missouri and their tributary
streams have been wonderfully benefited by it. It now seems as if it were
advancing towards the stony mountains, and probably will not become
stationary till it reaches the Pacific Ocean. This almost immeasurable
territory affords a shelter and a home to mankind in general: Jew or
Gentile, king's-man or republican, he meets with a friendly reception in
the United States. His opinions, his persecutions, his errors or mistakes,
however they may have injured him in other countries, are dead and of no
avail on his arrival here. Provided he keeps the peace he is sure to be at
rest.

Politicians of other countries imagine that intestine feuds will cause a
division in this commonwealth; at present there certainly appears to be no
reason for such a conjecture. Heaven forbid that it should happen. The
world at large would suffer by it. For ages yet to come may this great
commonwealth continue to be the United States of North America.

The sun was now within a week or two of passing into the southern
hemisphere, and the mornings and evenings were too cold to be comfortable.
I embarked for the Island of Antigua with the intention of calling at the
different islands in the Caribbean Sea on my way once more towards the
wilds of Guiana.

We were thirty days in making Antigua, and thanked Providence for ordering
us so long a passage. A tremendous gale of wind, approaching to a
hurricane, had done much damage in the West Indies. Had our passage been of
ordinary length we should inevitably have been caught in the gale.

St. John's is the capital of Antigua. In better times it may have had its
gaieties and amusements. At present it appears sad and woebegone. The
houses, which are chiefly of wood, seem as if they have not had a coat of
paint for many years; the streets are uneven and ill-paved; and as the
stranger wanders through them, he might fancy that they would afford a
congenial promenade to the man who is about to take his last leave of
surrounding worldly misery before he hangs himself. There had been no rain
for some time, so that the parched and barren pastures near the town might,
with great truth, be called Rosinante's own. The mules feeding on them put
you in mind of Ovid's description of famine:

    Dura cutis, per quam spectari viscera possent.

It is somewhat singular that there is not a single river or brook in the
whole Island of Antigua. In this it differs from Tartary in the other
world, which, according to old writers, has five rivers--viz. Acheron,
Phlegeton, Cocytus, Styx and Lethe.

In this island I found the redstart, described in Wilson's _Ornithology
of the United States_. I wished to learn whether any of these birds
remain the whole year in Antigua and breed there, or whether they all leave
it for the north when the sun comes out of the southern hemisphere; but
upon inquiry I could get no information whatever.

After passing a dull week here I sailed for Guadaloupe, whose bold and
cloud-capped mountains have a grand appearance as you approach the island.
Basseterre, the capital, is a neat town, with a handsome public walk in the
middle of it, well shaded by a row of fine tamarind trees on each side.
Behind the town La Souffrière raises its high romantic summit, and on a
clear day you may see the volcanic smoke which issues from it.

Nearly midway betwixt Guadaloupe and Dominica you escry the Saintes. Though
high and bold and rocky, they have still a diminutive appearance when
compared with their two gigantic neighbours. You just see Marigalante to
windward of them, some leagues off, about a yard high in the horizon.

Dominica is majestic in high and rugged mountains. As you sail along it you
cannot help admiring its beautiful coffee-plantations, in places so abrupt
and steep that you would pronounce them almost inaccessible. Roseau, the
capital, is but a small town, and has nothing attractive except the well-
known hospitality of the present harbour-master, who is particularly
attentive to strangers and furnishes them with a world of information
concerning the West Indies. Roseau has seen better days, and you can trace
good taste and judgment in the way in which the town has originally been
laid out.

Some years ago it was visited by a succession of misfortunes which smote it
so severely that it has never recovered its former appearance. A strong
French fleet bombarded it; while a raging fire destroyed its finest
buildings. Some time after an overwhelming flood rolled down the gullies
and fissures of the adjacent mountains and carried all before it. Men,
women and children, houses and property, were all swept away by this mighty
torrent. The terrible scene was said to beggar all description, and the
loss was immense.

Dominica is famous for a large species of frog which the inhabitants keep
in readiness to slaughter for the table. In the woods of this island the
large rhinoceros-beetle is very common: it measures above six inches in
length. In the same woods is found the beautiful humming-bird, the breast
and throat of which are of a brilliant changing purple. I have searched for
this bird in Brazil and through the whole of the wilds from the Rio Branco,
which is a branch of the Amazons, to the River Paumaron, but never could
find it. I was told by a man in the Egyptian Hall in Piccadilly that this
humming-bird is found in Mexico; but upon questioning him more about it his
information seemed to have been acquired by hearsay; and so I concluded
that it does not appear in Mexico. I suspect that it is never found out of
the Antilles.

After leaving Dominica you soon reach the grand and magnificent Island of
Martinico. St. Pierre, its capital, is a fine town, and possesses every
comfort. The inhabitants seem to pay considerable attention to the
cultivation of the tropical fruits. A stream of water runs down the streets
with great rapidity, producing a pleasing effect as you pass along.

Here I had an opportunity of examining a cuckoo which had just been shot.
It was exactly the same as the metallic cuckoo in Wilson's
_Ornithology_. They told me it is a migratory bird in Martinico. It
probably repairs to this island after its departure from the United States.

At a little distance from Martinico the celebrated Diamond Rock rises in
insulated majesty out of the sea. It was fortified during the last war with
France, and bravely defended by an English captain.

In a few hours from Martinico you are at St. Lucie, whose rough and
towering mountains fill you with sublime ideas, as you approach its rocky
shore. The town Castries is quite embayed. It was literally blown to pieces
by the fatal hurricane in which the unfortunate governor and his lady lost
their lives. Its present forlorn and gloomy appearance, and the grass which
is grown up in the streets, too plainly show that its hour of joy is passed
away and that it is in mourning, as it were, with the rest of the British
West Indies.

From St. Lucie I proceeded to Barbadoes in quest of a conveyance to the
Island of Trinidad.

Near Bridgetown, the capital of Barbadoes, I saw the metallic cuckoo
already alluded to.

Barbadoes is no longer the merry island it was when I visited it some years
ago:

  Infelix habitum, temporis hujus habet.

There is an old song, to the tune of "La Belle Catharine," which must
evidently have been composed in brighter times:

  Come let us dance and sing,
  While Barbadoes bells do ring;
  Quashi scrapes the fiddle-string,
  And Venus plays the lute.

Quashi's fiddle was silent, and mute was the lute of Venus during my stay
in Barbadoes. The difference betwixt the French and British islands was
very striking. The first appeared happy and content; the second were filled
with murmurs and complaints. The late proceedings in England concerning
slavery and the insurrection in Demerara had evidently caused the gloom.
The abolition of slavery is a question full of benevolence and fine
feelings, difficulties and danger:

  Tantum ne noceas, dum vis prodesse videto.

It requires consummate prudence and a vast fund of true information in
order to draw just conclusions on this important subject. Phaeton, by
awkward driving, set the world on fire: "Sylvæ cum montibus ardent."
Dædalus gave his son a pair of wings without considering the consequence;
the boy flew out of all bounds, lost his wings, and tumbled into the sea:

  Icarus, Icariis nomina fecit aquis.

When the old man saw what had happened, he damned his own handicraft in
wing-making: "devovitque suas artes." Prudence is a cardinal virtue:

  Omnia consulta mente gerenda tegens.

Foresight is half the battle. "Hombre apercebido, medio combatido," says
Don Quixote, or Sancho, I do not remember which. Had Queen Bess weighed
well in her own mind the probable consequences of this lamentable traffic,
it is likely she would not have been owner of two vessels in Sir John
Hawkins's squadron, which committed the first robbery in negro flesh on the
coast of Africa. As philanthropy is the very life and soul of this
momentous question on slavery, which is certainly fraught with great
difficulties and danger, perhaps it would be as well at present for the
nation to turn its thoughts to poor ill-fated Ireland, where oppression,
poverty and rags make a heart-rending appeal to the feelings of the
benevolent.

My dear friends, if we only had this love, this consecration, we would
be interested in everything that interests our Master. And hearing of
our sister in the mountains who knows nothing of him, we would hasten to
go ourselves or make it easy for others to go and tell her of His love.
And thinking of our colored sister in the South who is oppressed and
down-trodden, if we loved Him we would hasten to go with joy and tell
her of the yoke that is easy and the burden that is light.

And remembering our Indian sister who is so in the dark and is so destitute
of knowledge we would find a way to tell her of Him who is the light
of the world. And knowing of our Chinese sister here on our shores, who looks
forward to a heavenly home for her husband, though she has no such
hope for herself, we would go and tell her--or see that some one
else told her--of Him who said: "Whosoever cometh unto me shall
have eternal life."

Our work then would not be done from a sense of duty but as the expression
of our love and joy, and all we would ask in return would be the words:
"Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these, ye have
done it unto me."
* * * * *
ADDRESS BY MISS ANNETTE P. BRICKETT.

In the few minutes which are assigned me in which to bring before you the
work of our Indian mission and boarding school at Fort Berthold, among the
Rees, Mandans and Gros Ventres, there is no time for me to discuss the
"Indian Problem," about which I am not at all wise, nor to talk of the
Indian character, nor to defend it against the numberless unjust opinions
and popular newspaper and magazine prejudice with which you are all so
familiar.

I think you want to know all that I shall have time to tell you of our
past year's work, our encouragements, our difficulties and
successes.
There has been an increasing spirit of loving, gentle, helpfulness
among our school girls, both in the home and school life. We have
all gladly noticed that our boys have become more courteous and
thoughtful.I wish there had been proof
positive of this; but the breeding-time was over, and in the ants' nests
which I examined I could find no marks of birds having ever been in them.
Early in January the jacamar is in fine plumage for the cabinet of the
naturalist. The largest species measures ten inches and a half from the
point of the beak to the end of the tail. Its name amongst the Indians is
una-waya-adoucati, that is, grandfather of the jacamar. It is certainly a
splendid bird, and in the brilliancy and changeableness of its metallic
colours it yields to none of the Asiatic and African feathered tribe. The
colours of the female are nearly as bright as those of the male, but she
wants the white feathers on the throat. The large jacamar is pretty common
about two hundred miles up the River Demerara.

Here I had a fine opportunity once more of examining the three-toed sloth.
He was in the house with me for a day or two. Had I taken a description of
him as he lay sprawling on the floor I should have misled the world and
injured natural history. On the ground he appeared really a bungled
composition, and faulty at all points; awkwardness and misery were depicted
on his countenance; and when I made him advance he sighed as though in
pain. Perhaps it was that by seeing him thus out of his element, as it
were, that the Count de Buffon, in his history of the sloth, asks the
question: "Why should not some animals be created for misery, since, in the
human species, the greatest number of individuals are devoted to pain from
the moment of their existence?" Were the question put to me I would answer,
I cannot conceive that any of them are created for misery. That thousands
live in misery there can be no doubt; but then misery has overtaken them in
their path through life, and wherever man has come up with them I should
suppose they have seldom escaped from experiencing a certain proportion of
misery.

After fully satisfying myself that it only leads the world into error to
describe the sloth while he is on the ground or in any place except in a
tree, I carried the one I had in my possession to his native haunts. As
soon as he came in contact with the branch of a tree all went right with
him. I could see as he climbed up into his own country that he was on the
right road to happiness; and felt persuaded more than ever that the world
has hitherto erred in its conjectures concerning the sloth, on account of
naturalists not having given a description of him when he was in the only
position in which he ought to have been described, namely, clinging to the
branch of a tree.

As the appearance of this part of the country bears great resemblance to
Cayenne, and is so near to it, I was in hopes to have found the grande
gobe-mouche of Buffon and the septi-coloured tangara, both of which are
common in Cayenne; but after many diligent searches I did not succeed, nor
could I learn from the Indians that they had ever seen those two species of
birds in these parts.

Here I procured the gross-beak with a rich scarlet body and black head and
throat. Buffon mentions it as coming from America. I had been in quest of
it for years, but could never see it, and concluded that it was not to be
found in Demerara. This bird is of a greenish brown before it acquires its
rich plumage.

Amongst the bare roots of the trees, alongside of this part of the river, a
red crab sometimes makes its appearance as you are passing up and down. It
is preyed upon by a large species of owl which I was fortunate enough to
procure. Its head, back, wings and tail are of so dark a brown as almost to
appear black. Would He bring them in through us? Let us arouse ourselves
that we may not so lose these opportunities God has given to win this land
for Christ. We have done something, but it is so far short of the need.
Our offerings--have they been so much a part of ourselves, have they cost
us so much that they have been _worthy_ tokens of love to our Lord?

The American Missionary Association has come to its fiftieth year of work
and appeal for these to whom the gospel is to be preached, through
church planting and Christian schools.Here, too, close to the river, I frequently saw the bird called sun-bird by
the English colonists and tirana by the Spaniards in the Oroonoque. It is
very elegant, and in its outward appearance approaches near to the heron
tribe; still, it does not live upon fish. Flies and insects are its food,
and it takes them just as the heron takes fish, by approaching near and
then striking with its beak at its prey so quick that it has no chance to
escape. The beautiful mixture of grey, yellow, green, black, white and
chestnut in the plumage of this bird baffles any attempt to give a
description of the distribution of them which would be satisfactory to the
reader.

There is something remarkable in the great tinamou which I suspect has
hitherto escaped notice. It invariably roosts in trees, but the feet are so
very small in proportion to the body of this bulky bird that they can be of
no use to it in grasping the branch; and, moreover, the hind-toe is so
short that it does not touch the ground when the bird is walking. The back
part of the leg, just below the knee, is quite flat and somewhat concave.
On it are strong pointed scales, which are very rough, and catch your
finger as you move it along from the knee to the toe. Now, by means of
these scales and the particular flatness of that part of the leg, the bird
is enabled to sleep in safety upon the branch of a tree.

At the close of day the great tinamou gives a loud, monotonous, plaintive
whistle, and then immediately springs into the tree. By the light of the
full-moon the vigilant and cautious naturalist may see him sitting in the
position already described.

Many of them have learned for the first time, under their wise and consecrated
matron, the value of strict adherence to God's great law of obedience in
the forming of manly characters and in the making of happy homes.

Our older Ree girls came back to school this fall more neatly and cleanly
clad than ever before. Some of them made tasteful calico dresses for themselves
with which to return to us. Several of these older girls, under the
leadership of one of our ladies, organized themselves into a "Cleaning Club"
at the close of school in July and have kept faithfully at work
all through the vacation, each week meeting at a certain house and
giving the poor little log home, with its mud-plugged walls and
dirt floor a most vigorous and thorough "scrub."

I had gone about half a day down the river to a part of the
forest where the wallaba-trees were in great plenty. The seeds had ripened,
and I was in hopes to have got the large scarlet ara, which feeds on them.
But unfortunately the time had passed away, and the seeds had fallen.

While ranging here in the forest we stopped under an ants' nest, and, by
the dirt below, conjectured that it had got new tenants. Thinking it no
harm to dislodge them, "vi et armis," an Indian boy ascended the tree, but
before he reached the nest out flew above a dozen vampires.

I have formerly remarked that I wished to have it in my power to say that I
had been sucked by the vampire. I gave them many an opportunity, but they
always fought shy; and though they now sucked a young man of the Indian
breed very severely, as he was sleeping in his hammock in the shed next to
mine, they would have nothing to do with me. His great toe seemed to have
all the attractions. I examined it minutely as he was bathing it in the
river at daybreak. The midnight surgeon had made a hole in it almost of a
triangular shape, and the blood was then running from it apace. His hammock
was so defiled and stained with clotted blood that he was obliged to beg an
old black woman to wash it. As she was taking it down to the river-side she
spread it out before me, and shook her head. I remarked that I supposed her
own toe was too old and tough to invite the vampire-doctor to get his
supper out of it, and she answered, with a grin, that doctors generally
preferred young people.

Nobody has yet been able to inform me how it is that the vampire manages to
draw such a large quantity of blood, generally from the toe, and the
patient all the time remains in a profound sleep. I have never heard of an
instance of a man waking under the operation. On the contrary, he continues
in a sound sleep, and at the time of rising his eyes first inform him that
there has been a thirsty thief on his toe.

The teeth of the vampire are very sharp and not unlike those of a rat. If
it be that he inflicts the wound with his teeth (and he seems to have no
other instruments), one would suppose that the acuteness of the pain would
cause the person who is sucked to awake. The Indians want their children to
come into the mission schools where they may learn "the Jesus way," but
it costs $150 for each pupil. The mountain people of the South, unlettered,
simple-hearted, credulous, are the prey of Mormon missionaries, who are
working zealously for converts, and, as one reports, with "good success."
The antidote is Christian teachers and preachers, but here again is an
average cost of $400. The Chinese field, besides the work for men in mission
schools, presents an opportunity for women's work among twenty-five
hundred Chinese women in San Francisco, who are accessible in their
homes, and who respond gratefully to Christian sympathy and
instruction.

The rim of the nest is doubled inwards, and
I always conjectured that it had taken this shape on account of the body of
the bird pressing against it while she was laying her eggs. But this was
quite a wrong conjecture. Instinct has taught the bird to give it this
shape in order that the eggs may be prevented from rolling out.

The trees on the river's bank are particularly exposed to violent gusts of
wind, and while I have been sitting in the canoe and looking on, I have
seen the slender branch of the tree which held the humming-bird's nest so
violently shaken that the bottom of the inside of the nest has appeared,
and had there been nothing at the rim to stop the eggs they must inevitably
have been jerked out into the water. I suspect the humming-bird never lays
more than two eggs. I never found more than two in any of the many nests
which have come in my way. The eggs were always white without any spots on
them.

Probably travellers have erred in asserting that the monkeys of South
America throw sticks and fruit at their pursuers. I have had fine
opportunities of narrowly watching the different species of monkeys which
are found in the wilds betwixt the Amazons and the Oroonoque. I entirely
acquit them of acting on the offensive. When the monkeys are in the high
trees over your head the dead branches will now and then fall down upon
you, having been broken off as the monkeys pass along them; but they are
never hurled from their hands.

The opportunities of the year just closed we may not reclaim, but we are
beginning a new year with its new opportunities. The colored people,
eager for improvement, struggling with poverty, appeal for schools and
churches, but it costs $400 for each teacher or minister.There are no apes and no baboons as yet discovered in the
new world. Its monkeys may be very well and very briefly ranged under two
heads: namely, those with hairy and bushy tails; and those whose tails are
bare of hair underneath about six inches from the extremity. Those with
hairy and bushy tails climb just like the squirrel, and make no use of the
tail to help them from branch to branch. Those which have the tail bare
underneath towards the end find it of infinite advantage to them in their
ascent and descent. They apply it to the branch of the tree, as though it
were a supple finger, and frequently swing by it from the branch like the
pendulum of a clock. It answers all the purposes of a fifth hand to the
monkey, as naturalists have already observed.

It was a principle of the society that each girl who had been thus assisted
should do all in her power to keep the home clean and neat, and our
girls have greatly delighted us by the brave way in which they have kept
this pledge.While lying in your
hammock in these gloomy and immeasurable wilds, you hear him howling at
intervals from eleven o'clock at night till daybreak. You would suppose
that half the wild beasts of the forest were collecting for the work of
carnage. Now it is the tremendous roar of the jaguar as he springs on his
prey: now it changes to his terrible and deep-toned growlings as he is
pressed on all sides by superior force: and now you hear his last dying
moan beneath a mortal wound.

Some naturalists have supposed that these awful sounds which you would
fancy are those of enraged and dying wild beasts proceed from a number of
the red monkeys howling in concert. One of them alone is capable of
producing all these sounds; and the anatomists on an inspection of his
trachea will be fully satisfied that this is the case. When you look at
him, as he is sitting on the branch of a tree, you will see a lump in his
throat the size of a large hen's egg. My dear Helen, it was the only thing
I could say.
What would Clarendon have thought, after all my _supposes_, if I had said
any thing else? he must have seen the truth." "And that he is not to
see," said Helen: "and how false he must think me!"
