There was sweet laughter and endearing words,
  Made broken by the kiss that could not wait,
  And cooing sounds as of dear little birds
That in spring-time love and woo and mate.

And languid sighs that breathed of love's content
And all too soon this night of rapture went.


II.

One night was full of anguish and of pain,
  Of nerveless arms and mockery of kisses;
  And those caresses where one sick heart misses
The quick response the other cannot feign.

Hands idly clasped and unclasped, and lost hold,
  And the averted eyes, that turned away,
  And in whose depths no love nor longing lay,
The saddest of all truths too plainly told.

There was salt sorrow and the gall of tears,
  Some useless words that ended in a moan,
  And a dull dread of long unending years
When one must walk forever more alone.
Deep shuddering sighs told more than lips could say;
And the long night of sorrow wore away.


=Preparation=


We must not force events, but rather make
The heart soil ready for their coming, as
The earth spreads carpets for the feet of Spring,
Or, with the strengthening tonic of the frost,
Prepares for Winter. Should a July noon
Burst suddenly upon a frozen world
Small joy would follow, even tho' that world
Were longing for the Summer. Should the sting
Of sharp December pierce the heart of June,
What death and devastation would ensue!
All things are planned. The most majestic sphere
That whirls through space is governed and controlled
By supreme law, as is the blade of grass
Which through the bursting bosom of the earth
Creeps up to kiss the light. Poor puny man
Alone doth strive and battle with the Force
Which rules all lives and worlds, and he alone
Demands effect before producing cause.
How vain the hope! We cannot harvest joy
Until we sow the seed, and God alone
Knows when that seed has ripened. Oft we stand
And watch the ground with anxious brooding eyes
Complaining of the slow unfruitful yield,
Not knowing that the shadow of ourselves
Keeps off the sunlight and delays result.
Sometimes our fierce impatience of desire
Doth like a sultry May force tender shoots
Of half-formed pleasures and unshaped events
To ripen prematurely, and we reap
But disappointment; or we rot the germs
With briny tears ere they have time to grow.
While stars are born and mighty planets die
And hissing comets scorch the brow of space
The Universe keeps its eternal calm.
Through patient preparation, year on year,
The earth endures the travail of the Spring
And Winter's desolation. questioned the
senior Woodbridge with interest.

Cyrus looked at his father.

"I don't think so--now, sir," he said.

Both gentlemen laughed.

"Are you hungry?"

"Well, just a little, grandfather."
"Dinner will be served the moment we are
off. We have only six minutes to wait. I
am afraid--I am very much afraid "--the
old gentleman turned to gaze searchingly
out of the car window into the
station--"that another boy's word of honor, is
not--"

He stood, watch in hand. The conductor
came in and remained, awaiting orders. "Two minutes
more, Mr. Jefferson," he said. "One
and a half--one--half a minute." He spoke
sternly: "Pull out at 8:14 on the second,
sir. Ah----"
The porter entered hurriedly, and delivered
a handful of envelopes into Grandfather Cornelius's grasp.

The old gentleman scanned them at a glance.

"Yes, yes--all right!" he cried, with the
strongest evidences of excitement Cyrus had ever
seen in his usually quiet manner. As the
train made its first gentle motion of departure,
a figure appeared in the doorway.
Quietly, and not at all out of breath,
Cornelius Woodbridge, Third, walked into the car.

Then Grandfather Woodbridge grew impressive.

He advanced, and shook hands with his
grandson as if he were greeting a distinguished
member of the board of directors.
Then he turned to his son, and shook hands
with him also, solemnly. His eyes
shone through his gold-rimmed spectacles, but
his voice was grave with feeling.

"I congratulate you, Cornelius," he said, "on possessing two sons
whose word of honor is above reproach.

The smallest deviation from the outlined
schedule would have resulted disastrously.
Ten minutes' tardiness at the different points
would have failed to obtain the requisite
documents. Your sons did not fail. They can be
depended upon. The world is in search of men
built on those lines. I congratulate
you, sir."

Cyrus was glad presently to escape to his stateroom with Cornelius.

"Say, what did you have to do?" he asked,
eagerly. "Did you trot your legs off all over
town?"
"Not much, I didn't!" said Cornelius, grimly,
from the depths of a big towel. "I spent the whole
day in a little hole of a room at the top of an empty
building, with just ten trips down the stairs
to the ground floor to get envelopes at certain minutes.

I had not a crumb to eat nor a thing to do, and could not even
snatch a nap for fear I'd oversleep one of my dates at the bottom."

"I believe that was worse than mine," commented
Cyrus, reflectively.

"I should say it was. If you don't think so,
try it."
"Dinner, boys," said their father's voice at the
door, and they lost no time in responding.--_Grace
S. Richmond, in Youth's Companion_.

Heroism
A tone of pride or petulance repressed, A selfish
inclination firmly fought, A shadow of
annoyance set at naught, A measure of
disquietude suppressed, A peace in importunity
possessed, A reconcilement generously sought,
A purpose put aside, a banished thought, A word of self-explaining
unexpressed,-- Trifles they seem, these petty soul-restraints; Yet
he who proves them so must needs possess A constancy and courage
grand and bold.

They are the trifles that have made the saints.

Give me to practise them in humbleness, And nobler
power than mine doth no man hold.
--_Selected_.

MURIEL'S BRIGHT IDEA

My friend Muriel is the youngest daughter in a large family of busy
people.

They are in moderate circumstances, and the original breadwinner
has been long gone; so in order to enjoy many of the comforts and
a few of the luxuries of life the young people have to be wage-earners.

I am not sure that they would enjoy life any
better than they do now if such were not
the case, though there are doubtless times
when they would like to be less busy.
Still, even this condition has its
compensations.

"Other people do not know how lovely vacations are," was the way
Esther expressed it as she sat one day on the side porch, hands
folded lightly in her lap, and an air of delicious idleness about
her entire person.

It was her week of absolute leisure, which she had earned by a
season of hard work.

She is a public-school teacher, belonging
to a section and grade where they
work their teachers fourteen hours
of the twenty-four.

XII.

For in this brief existence, not alone
Do our lives gather what our hands have sown,
But we reap, too, what others long ago
Sowed, careless of the harvests that might grow.
Thus hour by hour the humblest human souls
Inscribe in cipher on unending scrolls,
The history of nations yet to be;
Incite fierce bloody wars, to rage from sea to sea,


XIII.

Or pave the way to peace. There is no past,
So deathless are events--results so vast.
And he who strives to make one act or hour
Stand separate and alone, needs first the power
To look upon the breaking wave and say,
"These drops were bosomed by a cloud to-day,
And those from far mid-ocean's crest were sent."
So future, present, past, in one wide sea are blent.


=BOOK SECOND=


I.

Oh, for the power to call to aid, of mine
Own humble Muse, the famed and sacred nine.
Then might she fitly sing, and only then,
Of those intrepid and unflinching men
Who knew no homes save ever moving tents,
And who 'twixt fierce unfriendly elements
And wild barbarians warred. Yet unfraid,
Since love impels thy strains, sing, sing, my modest maid.


II.

Relate how Custer in midwinter sought
Far Washita's cold shores; tell why he fought
With savage nomads fortressed in deep snows.
Woman, thou source of half the sad world's woes
And all its joys, what sanguinary strife
Has vexed the earth and made contention rife
Because of thee! For, hidden in man's heart,
Ay, in his very soul, of his true self a part,


III.

The natural impulse and the wish belongs
To win thy favor and redress thy wrongs.
Alas! for woman, and for man, alas!
If that dread hour should ever come to pass,
When, through her new-born passion for control,
She drives that beauteous impulse from his soul.
What were her vaunted independence worth
If to obtain she sells her sweetest rights of birth?


IV.

God formed fair woman for her true estate--
Man's tender comrade, and his equal mate,
Not his competitor in toil and trade.
While coarser man, with greater strength was made
To fight her battles and her rights protect.
Ay! to protect the rights of earth's elect
(The virgin maiden and the spotless wife)
From immemorial time has man laid down his life.


V.

And now brave Custer's valiant army pressed
Across the dangerous desert of the West,
To rescue fair white captives from the hands
Of brutal Cheyenne and Comanche bands,
On Washita's bleak banks. Nine hundred strong
It moved its slow determined way along,
Past frontier homes left dark and desolate
By the wild Indians' fierce and unrelenting hate;


VI.

Past forts where ranchmen, strong of heart and bold,
Wept now like orphaned children as they told,
With quivering muscles and with anguished breath,
Of captured wives, whose fate was worse than death;
Past naked bodies whose disfiguring wounds
Spoke of the hellish hate of human hounds;
Past bleaching skeleton and rifled grave,
On pressed th' avenging host, to rescue and to save.


VII.

Uncertain Nature, like a fickle friend,
(Worse than the foe on whom we may depend)
Turned on these dauntless souls a brow of wrath
And hurled her icy jav'lins in their path.
With treacherous quicksands, and with storms that blight,
Entrapped their footsteps and confused their sight.
"Yet on," urged Custer, "on at any cost,
No hour is there to waste, no moment to be lost."


VIII.

Determined, silent, on they rode, and on,
Like fabled Centaurs, men and steeds seemed one.
No bugle echoed and no voice spoke near,
Lest on some lurking Indian's list'ning ear
The sound might fall. Through swift descending snow
The stealthy guides crept, tracing out the foe;
No fire was lighted, and no halt was made
From haggard gray-lipped dawn till night lent friendly shade.


IX.

Then, by the shelt'ring river's bank at last,
The weary warriors paused for their repast.
A couch of ice and falling snows for spread
Made many a suffering soldier's chilling bed.
They slept to dream of glory and delight,
While the pale fingers of the pitying night
Wove ghostly winding sheets for that doomed score
Who, ere another eve, should sleep to wake no more.


X.

But those who slept not, saw with startled eyes
Far off, athwart dim unprotecting skies,
Ascending slowly with majestic grace,
A lustrous rocket, rising out of space.
"Behold the signal of the foe," cried one,
The field is lost before the strife's begun.
Yet no! for see! yon rays spread near and far;
It is the day's first smile, the radiant morning star.


XI.

The long hours counting till the daylight broke,
In whispered words the restless warriors spoke.
They talked of battles, but they thought of home
(For hearts are faithful though the feet may roam).
Brave Hamilton, all eager for the strife,
Mused o'er that two-fold mystery--death and life;
"And when I die," quoth he, "mine be the part
To fall upon the field, a bullet in my heart."


XII.

At break of dawn the scouts crept in to say
The foe was camped a rifle shot away.
The baying of a dog, an infant's cry
Pierced through the air; sleep fled from every eye.
To horse! to arms! the dead demand the dead!
Let the grand charge upon the lodge be led!
Let the Mosaic law, life for a life
Pay the long standing debt of blood. The corner of West and Dwight Streets lay more than half a mile
from the end of the car route, and it was an almost untenanted
district.

His legs were very tired; his stomach ached with emptiness.

Why not wait out the interval which it
would take to walk to the corner and back in a little
suburban station, read envelope No.
19, and spare himself? He had certainly done
enough to prove that he was a faithful
messenger.

Had he?

Certain old and well-worn words came into his mind; they had been
in his writing-book in the early school-days: "A chain is no stronger
than its weakest link."

Cyrus jumped off the car before it fairly
stopped, and started at a hot pace for
the corner of West and Dwight Streets.
There must be no weak places in his word of
honor.

Doggedly he went to the extreme limit of the
indicated route, even taking the longest way round to make the turn.

As he started back, beneath the arc light at the corner there
suddenly appeared a city messenger boy.

He approached Cyrus, and, grinning, held
out an envelope.

"Ordered to give you this," he said, "if you
made connections. If you'd been later
than five minutes past seven, I was to keep
dark. You've got seven minutes and a half to
spare. Queer orders, but the big railroad boss, Woodbridge, gave
'em to me."

Cyrus made his way back to the car with some self-congratulations
that served to brace up the muscles behind his knees.

This last incident showed him plainly
that his father was putting him to a severe
test of some sort, and he could have no doubt that
it was for a purpose. His father was
the sort of man who does things with a
very definite purpose indeed. Cyrus looked
back over the day with an anxious searching
of his memory to be sure that no detail of the singular service
required of him had been slighted.

As he once more ascended the steps of his own home, he was so
confident that his labors were now ended that he almost forgot about
envelope No. 20, which he had been directed to read in the vestibule
before entering the house.

To conquer and subdue alone remains
In dealing with the red man on the plains.
The breast that knows no conscience yields to fear,
Strike! let the Indian meet his master now and here.


XIX.

With thoughts like these was Custer's mind engaged.
The gentlest are the sternest when enraged.
All felt the swift contagion of his ire,
For he was one who could arouse and fire
The coldest heart, so ardent was his own.
His fearless eye, his calm intrepid tone,
Bespoke the leader, strong with conscious power,
Whom following friends will bless, while foes will curse and cower.


XX.

Again they charge! and now among the killed
Lies Hamilton, his wish so soon fulfilled,
Brave Elliott pursues across the field
The flying foe, his own young life to yield.
But like the leaves in some autumnal gale
The red men fall in Washita's wild vale.
Each painted face and black befeathered head
Still more repulsive seems with death's grim pallor wed.


XXI.

New forces gather on surrounding knolls,
And fierce and fiercer war's red river rolls.
With bright-hued pennants flying from each lance
The gayly costumed Kiowas advance.
And bold Comanches (Bedouins of the land)
Infuse fresh spirit in the Cheyenne band.
While from the ambush of some dark ravine
Flash arrows aimed by hands, unerring and unseen.


XXIII.

The hours advance; the storm clouds roll away;
Still furious and more furious grows the fray.
The yellow sun makes ghastlier still the sight
Of painted corpses, staring in its light.
No longer slaves, but comrades of their griefs,
The squaws augment the forces of their chiefs.
They chant weird dirges in a minor key,
While from the narrow door of wigwam and tepee

[Transcriber's Note: originally the remaining stanzas of Book II were numbered
incorrectly from here onwards. This has been changed to avoid confusion]

XXIV.

Cold glittering eyes above cold glittering steel
Their deadly purpose and their hate reveal.
The click of pistols and the crack of guns
Proclaim war's daughters dangerous as her sons.
She who would wield the soldier's sword and lance
Must be prepared to take the soldier's chance.
She who would shoot must serve as target, too;
The battle-frenzied men, infuriate now pursue.


XXV.

And blood of warrior, woman and papoose,
Flow free as waters when some dam breaks loose;
Consuming fire, the wanton friend of war
(Whom allies worship and whom foes abhor)
Now trails her crimson garments through the street,
And ruin marks the passing of her feet.
Full three-score lodges smoke upon the plain,
And all the vale is strewn with bodies of the slain.


XXVI.

And those who are not numbered with the dead
Before all-conquering Custer now are led.
To soothe their woes, and calm their fears he seeks;
An Osage guide interprets while he speaks.
The vanquished captives, humbled, cowed and spent
Read in the victor's eye his kind intent.
The modern victor is as kind as brave;
His captive is his guest, not his insulted slave.


XXVII.

Mahwissa, sister of the slaughtered chief
Of all the Cheyennes, listens; and her grief
Yields now to hope; and o'er her withered face
There flits the stealthy cunning of her race.
Then forth she steps, and thus begins to speak:
"To aid the fallen and support the weak
Is man's true province; and to ease the pain
Of those o'er whom it is his purpose now to reign.


XXVIII.

"Let the strong chief unite with theirs his life,
And take this black-eyed maiden for a wife."
Then, moving with an air of proud command,
She leads a dusky damsel by the hand,
And places her at wondering Custer's side,
Invoking choicest blessings on the bride
And all unwilling groom, who thus replies.
"Fair is the Indian maid, with bright bewildering eyes,


XXIX.

"But fairer still is one who, year on year,
Has borne man's burdens, conquered woman's fear;
And at my side rode mile on weary mile,
And faced all deaths, all dangers, with a smile,
Wise as Minerva, as Diana brave,
Is she whom generous gods in kindness gave
To share the hardships of my wandering life,
Companion, comrade, friend, my loved and loyal wife.


XXX.

"The white chief weds but one. Take back thy maid."
He ceased, and o'er Mahwissa's face a shade
Of mingled scorn and pity and surprise
Sweeps as she slow retreats, and thus replies:
"Rich is the pale-faced chief in battle fame,
But poor is he who but one wife may claim.
"Very well, sir," replied his son, and the two men
went on with their work without further words.

They were in the habit of despatching important business with the
smallest possible waste of breath.

On Thursday morning, immediately after
breakfast, Cyrus Woodbridge found himself
summoned to his father's library. He presented
himself at once, a round-cheeked,
bright-eyed lad of fifteen, with an air
of alertness in every line of him.

"Cyrus," said his father, "I have a commission for you to undertake,
of a character which I cannot now explain to you.

I want you to take this envelope"--he held out a large and bulky
packet--"and, without saying anything to any one, follow its
instructions to the letter.

I ask of you your word of honor that you will do so."

The two pairs of eyes looked into each other
for a moment, singularly alike in a certain intent
expression, developed into great keenness in
the man, but showing as yet only an extreme
wide-awakeness in the boy. Cyrus Woodbridge
had an engagement with a young friend in half an hour, but he
responded, firmly:-- 
"I will, sir."

"On your honor?"

"Yes, sir."
"That is all I want. Go to your room, and
read your instructions. Then start at
once."
Mr. Woodbridge turned back to his desk with
the nod and smile of dismissal to which
Cyrus was accustomed. The boy went to his
room, opening the envelope as soon as he had closed the door.

It was filled with smaller envelopes, numbered in regular order.

Infolding these was a typewritten paper,
which read as follows:--
"Go to the reading-room of the Westchester
Library. There open envelope No.
1. Remember to hold all instructions secret.
C.W., Jr."
Cyrus whistled. "That's funny! It means my date
with Harold is off. Well, here goes!"

He stopped on his way out to telephone his friend of his detention,
took a Westchester Avenue car at the nearest point, and in twenty
minutes was at the library.

He found an obscure corner and opened
envelope No. 1.

"Go to office of W.K. Newton, room 703,
tenth floor, Norfolk Building, X Street,
reaching there by 9:30 A.M. Ask for letter
addressed to Cornelius Woodbridge, Jr. On way down elevator
open envelope No. 2."

Cyrus began to laugh.

At the same time he felt a trifle irritated.
"What's father at?" he questioned, in perplexity.
"Here I am away up-town, and he orders
me back to the Norfolk Building. I passed it
on my way up. Must be he made a mistake. Told
me to obey instructions, though. He usually
knows just about why he does things."
Meanwhile Mr. Woodbridge had sent for his elder son, Cornelius.

A tall youth of seventeen, with the strong family features, varied
by a droop in the eyelids and a slight drawl in his speech, lounged
to the door of the library.

Before entering he straightened his
shoulders; he did not, however, quicken his
pace.

"Cornelius," said his father, promptly,
"I wish to send you upon an errand of some
importance, but of possible inconvenience to
you.

I have not time to give you instructions, but you will find them
in this envelope.

I ask you to keep the matter and your
movements strictly to yourself. May I have
from you your word of honor that I can trust
you to follow the orders to the smallest detail?"

Cornelius put on a pair of eye-glasses,
and held out his hand for the envelope. His
manner was almost indifferent. Mr.

Woodbridge withheld the packet, and spoke with decision: "I cannot
allow you to look at the instructions until I have your word of
honor that you will fulfil them."

Inaction is not always what it seems,
And Custer's mind with plan and project teems.
Fixed in his peaceful purpose he abides
With none takes counsel and in none confides;
But slowly weaves about the foe a net
Which leaves them wholly at his mercy, yet
He strikes no fateful blow; he takes no life,
And holds in check his men, who pant for bloody strife.


XLI.

Intrepid warrior and skilled diplomate,
In his strong hands he holds the red man's fate.
The craftiest plot he checks with counterplot,
Till tribe by tribe the tricky foe is brought
To fear his vengeance and to know his power
As man's fixed gaze will make a wild beast cower,
So these crude souls feel that unflinching will
Which draws them by its force, yet does not deign to kill.


XLII.

And one by one the hostile Indians send
Their chiefs to seek a peaceful treaty's end.
Great councils follow; skill with cunning copes
And conquers it; and Custer sees his hopes
So long delayed, like stars storm hidden, rise
To radiate with splendor all his skies.
The stubborn Cheyennes, cowed at last by fear,
Leading the captive pair, o'er spring-touched hills appear.


XLIII.

With breath suspended, now the whole command
Waits the approach of that equestrian band.
Nearer it comes, still nearer, then a cry,
Half sob, half shriek, goes piercing God's blue sky,
And Brewster, like a nimble-footed doe,
Or like an arrow hurrying from a bow,
Shoots swiftly through the intervening space
And that lost sister clasps, in sorrowing love's embrace.


XLIV.

And men who leaned o'er Hamilton's rude bier
And saw his dead dear face without a tear,
Strong souls who early learned the manly art
Of keeping from the eye what's in the heart,
Soldiers who look unmoved on death's pale brow,
Avert their eyes, to hide their moisture now.
The briny flood forced back from shores of woe,
Needs but to touch the strands of joy to overflow.


XLV.

About the captives welcoming warriors crowd,
All eyes are wet, and Brewster sobs aloud.
Alas, the ravage wrought by toil and woe
On faces that were fair twelve moons ago.
Bronzed by exposure to the heat and cold,
Still young in years, yet prematurely old,
By insults humbled and by labor worn,
They stand in youth's bright hour, of all youth's graces shorn.


"I think I'll have--" He mused for a moment, then said, with a
laugh, "Well, I'm about hungry enough to eat the whole thing.

Bring me the--"
Then he recollected, paused, and reluctantly pulled out
envelope No. 8, and broke the seal.
Thus, to assuage the anger of the foe
The cunning Indians decked the captive pair
Who in one year have known a lifetime of despair.


XLVII.

But love can resurrect from sorrow's tomb
The vanished beauty and the faded bloom,
As sunlight lifts the bruised flower from the sod,
Can lift crushed hearts to hope, for love is God.
Already now in freedom's glad release
The hunted look of fear gives place to peace,
And in their eyes at thought of home appears
That rainbow light of joy which brightest shines through tears.


XLVIII.

About the leader thick the warriors crowd;
Late loud in censure, now in praises loud,
They laud the tactics, and the skill extol
Which gained a bloodless yet a glorious goal.
Alone and lonely in the path of right
Full many a brave soul walks. When gods requite
And crown his actions as their worth demands,
Among admiring throngs the hero always stands.

       *       *       *       *       *


XLIX.

Back to the East the valorous squadrons sweep;
The earth, arousing from her long, cold sleep,
Throws from her breast the coverlet of snow,
Revealing Spring's soft charms which lie below.
The porter went away with them, but was
back in three minutes.

"This way, sir," he said, and Cyrus followed, his heart beating fast.

Down the track he recognized the "Fleetwing," President Woodbridge's
private car.

And Grandfather Cornelius he knew to be just
starting on a tour of his own and other
roads, which included a flying trip to Mexico.
Could it be possible--
In the car his father and grandfather
rose to meet him. Cornelius Woodbridge, Senior,
was holding out his hand.

"Cyrus, lad," he said, his face one broad, triumphant smile, "you
have stood the test, the Hezekiah Woodbridge test, sir, and you may
be proud of it.

Your word of honor can be depended upon.
You are going with us through nineteen
States and Mexico.
Now like a serpent writhing o'er the moor,
The column curves and makes a slight detour,
As Custer leads a thousand men away
To save a ground bird's nest which in the footpath lay.


LII.

Mile following mile, against the leaning skies
Far off they see a dull dark cloud arise.
"He's come--and gone," he cried, softly, "and
he's on time to the minute!"
Cornelius, Junior, did not so much as
lift his eyes from the evening paper, as
he quietly answered, "Is he?" But
the corners of his mouth slightly relaxed.LIII.

Upon those spreading plains is there not room
For man and bison, that he seals its doom?
What pleasure lies and what seductive charm
In slaying with no purpose but to harm?
Alas, that man, unable to create,
Should thirst forever to exterminate,
And in destruction find his fiercest joy.
The gods alone create, gods only should destroy.


LIV.

