"To you, my Counsellors of State, I address myself first.
May God enlighten you, and fill you with wisdom, to promote the welfare
of my people.  You, too, my brave nobles, I commend to the divine protection.
Continue to prove yourselves the worthy successors of those Gothic heroes,
whose bravery humbled to the dust the pride of ancient Rome.  To you,
ministers of religion, I recommend moderation and unity; be yourselves
examples of the virtues which you preach, and abuse not your influence
over the minds of my people.  On you, deputies of the burgesses,
and the peasantry, I entreat the blessing of heaven; may your industry
be rewarded by a prosperous harvest; your stores plenteously filled,
and may you be crowned abundantly with all the blessings of this life.
For the prosperity of all my subjects, absent and present,
I offer my warmest prayers to Heaven.  I bid you all
a sincere -- it may be -- an eternal farewell."

The embarkation of the troops took place at Elfsknaben,
where the fleet lay at anchor.  An immense concourse flocked thither
to witness this magnificent spectacle.  The hearts of the spectators
were agitated by varied emotions, as they alternately considered
the vastness of the enterprise, and the greatness of the leader.
Among the superior officers who commanded in this army were Gustavus Horn,
the Rhinegrave Otto Lewis, Henry Matthias, Count Thurn, Ottenberg,
Baudissen, Banner, Teufel, Tott, Mutsenfahl, Falkenberg, Kniphausen,
and other distinguished names.  Detained by contrary winds,
the fleet did not sail till June, and on the 24th of that month
reached the Island of Rugen in Pomerania.

Gustavus Adolphus was the first who landed.  In the presence of his suite,
he knelt on the shore of Germany to return thanks to the Almighty
for the safe arrival of his fleet and his army.  He landed his troops
on the Islands of Wollin and Usedom; upon his approach, the imperial garrisons
abandoned their entrenchments and fled.  He advanced rapidly on Stettin,
to secure this important place before the appearance of the Imperialists.
Bogislaus XIV., Duke of Pomerania, a feeble and superannuated prince,
had been long tired out by the outrages committed by the latter
within his territories; but too weak to resist, he had contented himself
with murmurs.  The appearance of his deliverer, instead of
animating his courage, increased his fear and anxiety.  Severely as
his country had suffered from the Imperialists, the risk of incurring
the Emperor's vengeance prevented him from declaring openly for the Swedes.
Gustavus Adolphus, who was encamped under the walls of the town,
summoned the city to receive a Swedish garrison.  Bogislaus appeared
in person in the camp of Gustavus, to deprecate this condition.
"I come to you," said Gustavus, "not as an enemy but a friend.
I wage no war against Pomerania, nor against the German empire,
but against the enemies of both.  In my hands this duchy shall be sacred;
and it shall be restored to you at the conclusion of the campaign, by me,
with more certainty, than by any other.  Look to the traces
of the imperial force within your territories, and to mine in Usedom;
and decide whether you will have the Emperor or me as your friend.
What have you to expect, if the Emperor should make himself master
of your capital?  Will he deal with you more leniently than I?  Or is it
your intention to stop my progress?  The case is pressing:  decide at once,
and do not compel me to have recourse to more violent measures."

The alternative was a painful one.  On the one side, the King of Sweden
was before his gates with a formidable army; on the other,
he saw the inevitable vengeance of the Emperor, and the fearful example
of so many German princes, who were now wandering in misery, the victims
of that revenge.  The more immediate danger decided his resolution.
The gates of Stettin were opened to the king; the Swedish troops entered;
and the Austrians, who were advancing by rapid marches, anticipated.
The capture of this place procured for the king a firm footing in Pomerania,
the command of the Oder, and a magazine for his troops.  To prevent a charge
of treachery, Bogislaus was careful to excuse this step to the Emperor
on the plea of necessity; but aware of Ferdinand's implacable disposition,
he entered into a close alliance with his new protector.
By this league with Pomerania, Gustavus secured a powerful friend in Germany,
who covered his rear, and maintained his communication with Sweden.

As Ferdinand was already the aggressor in Prussia, Gustavus Adolphus
thought himself absolved from the usual formalities, and commenced hostilities
without any declaration of war.  To the other European powers,
he justified his conduct in a manifesto, in which he detailed the grounds
which had led him to take up arms.  Meanwhile he continued his progress
in Pomerania, while he saw his army daily increasing.  The troops which had
fought under Mansfeld, Duke Christian of Brunswick, the King of Denmark,
and Wallenstein, came in crowds, both officers and soldiers,
to join his victorious standard.

At the Imperial court, the invasion of the king of Sweden
at first excited far less attention than it merited.  The pride of Austria,
extravagantly elated by its unheard-of successes, looked down with contempt
upon a prince, who, with a handful of men, came from an obscure corner
of Europe, and who owed his past successes, as they imagined, entirely to
the incapacity of a weak opponent.  The depreciatory representation
which Wallenstein had artfully given of the Swedish power,
increased the Emperor's security; for what had he to fear from an enemy,
whom his general undertook to drive with such ease from Germany?
Even the rapid progress of Gustavus Adolphus in Pomerania,
could not entirely dispel this prejudice, which the mockeries of the courtiers
continued to feed.  He was called in Vienna the Snow King,
whom the cold of the north kept together, but who would infallibly melt
as he advanced southward.  Even the electors, assembled in Ratisbon,
disregarded his representations; and, influenced by an abject complaisance
to Ferdinand, refused him even the title of king.  But while they mocked him
in Ratisbon and Vienna, in Mecklenburg and Pomerania,
one strong town after another fell into his hands.

Notwithstanding this contempt, the Emperor thought it proper
to offer to adjust his differences with Sweden by negociation,
and for that purpose sent plenipotentiaries to Denmark.
But their instructions showed how little he was in earnest in these proposals,
for he still continued to refuse to Gustavus the title of king.
He hoped by this means to throw on the king of Sweden the odium of being
the aggressor, and thereby to ensure the support of the States of the empire.
The conference at Dantzic proved, as might be expected, fruitless,
and the animosity of both parties was increased to its utmost
by an intemperate correspondence.

