"Send him back into the room immediately," said Tom, who looked at me
as though he had some consciousness that I had introduced all this
confusion into his household.  What should I do?  Would it not be
best for me to make clean breast of it before them all?  But alas!  I
lacked the courage.

The coachman went out, and we were left for five minutes without any
servant, and Mr. O'Conor the while became more and more savage.  I
attempted to say a word to Fanny, but failed.  Vox faucibus haesit.

"I don't think he has got any others," said Tizzy--"at least none
others left."

On the whole I am glad I did not marry into the family, as I could
not have endured that girl to stay in my house as a sister-in-law.

"Where the d-- has that other fellow gone to?" said Tom.  "Jack, do
go out and see what is the matter.  If anybody is drunk send for me."

"Oh, there is nobody drunk," said Tizzy.

Jack went out, and the coachman returned; but what was done and said
I hardly remember.  The whole room seemed to swim round and round,
and as far as I can recollect the company sat mute, neither eating
nor drinking.  Presently Jack returned.

"It's all right," said he.  I always liked Jack.  At the present
moment he just looked towards me and laughed slightly.

"All right?" said Tom.  "But is the fellow coming?"

"We can do with Richard, I suppose," said Jack.

"No--I can't do with Richard," said the father.  "And will know what
it all means.  Where is that fellow Larry?"

Larry had been standing just outside the door, and now he entered
gently as a mouse.  No sound came from his footfall, nor was there in
his face that look of pain which it had worn for the last fifteen
minutes.  But he was not the less abashed, frightened and unhappy.

"What is all this about, Larry?" said his master, turning to him.  "I
insist upon knowing."

"Och thin, Mr. Green, yer honer, I wouldn't be afther telling agin
yer honer; indeed I wouldn't thin, av' the masther would only let me
hould my tongue."  And he looked across at me, deprecating my anger.

"Mr. Green!" said Mr. O'Conor.

"Yes, yer honer.  It's all along of his honer's thick shoes;" and
Larry, stepping backwards towards the door, lifted them up from some
corner, and coming well forward, exposed them with the soles
uppermost to the whole table.

"And that's not all, yer honer; but they've squoze the very toes of
me into a jelly."

There was now a loud laugh, in which Jack and Peter and Fanny and
Kate and Tizzy all joined; as too did Mr. O'Conor--and I also myself
after a while.

"Whose boots are they?" demanded Miss O'Conor senior, with her
severest tone and grimmest accent.

I'll not forget my race, I warrant you.
I'll keep my distance, laugh and talk aloud; Have all the tricks of
a proud scurvy lady, And be as rude as her woman.
FACE. Well said, sanguine!

SUB. But will he send his andirons?
FACE.I began muttering something, feeling that the time had come when I
must tell the tale.  But Jack with great good nature, took up the
story and told it so well, that I hardly suffered in the telling.

"And that's it," said Tom O'Conor, laughing till I thought he would
have fallen from his chair.  "So you've got Larry's shoes on--"

"And very well he fills them," said Jack.

"And it's his honer that's welcome to 'em," said Larry, grinning from
ear to ear now that he saw that "the masther" was once more in a good
humour.

"I hope they'll be nice shoes for dancing," said Kate.

"Only there's one down at the heel I know," said Tizzy.

"The servant's shoes!"  This was an exclamation made by the maiden
lady, and intended apparently only for her brother's ear.  But it was
clearly audible by all the party.

"Better that than no dinner," said Peter.

"But what are you to do about the dancing?" said Fanny, with an air
of dismay on her face which flattered me with an idea that she did
care whether I danced or no.

In the mean time Larry, now as happy as an emperor, was tripping
round the room without any shoes to encumber him as he withdrew the
plates from the table.

"And it's his honer that's welcome to 'em," said he again, as he
pulled off the table-cloth with a flourish.  "And why wouldn't he,
and he able to folly the hounds betther nor any Englishman that iver
war in these parts before,--anyways so Mick says!"

Now Mick was the huntsman, and this little tale of eulogy from Larry
went far towards easing my grief.  I had ridden well to the hounds
that day, and I knew it.

There was nothing more said about the shoes, and I was soon again at
my ease, although Miss O'Conor did say something about the
impropriety of Larry walking about in his stocking feet.  The ladies
however soon withdrew,--to my sorrow, for I was getting on swimmingly
with Fanny; and then we gentlemen gathered round the fire and filled
our glasses.

The medicine, which, rightly applied, has power to cure, has, when
rashness or ignorance prescribes it, the same power to destroy.

I have computed, at some hours of leisure, the loss and gain of literature,
and set the pain which it produces against the pleasure.
I went out, and there I found Fanny standing with her
brother.

"Here are the girls at their wits' ends," said he, "about your
dancing.  So Fanny has put a boy upon one of the horse and proposes
that you should send another line to Mrs. Meehan at Ballyglass.  It's
only ten miles, and he'll be back in two hours."

I need hardly say that I acted in conformity with this advice, I went
into Mr. O'Conor's book room, with Jack and his sister, and there
scribbled a note.  I was delightful to feel how intimate I was with
them, and how anxious they were to make me happy.

"And we won't begin till they come," said Fanny.

"Oh, Miss O'Conor, pray don't wait," said I.

"Oh, but we will," she answered.  "You have your wine to drink, and
then there's the tea; and then we'll have a song two.  I'll spin it
out; see if I don't."  And so we went to the front door where the boy
was already on his horse--her own nag as I afterwards found.

"And Patsey," said she, "ride for your life; and Patsey, whatever you
do, don't come back without Mr. Green's pumps--his dancing-shoes you
know."

And in about two hours the pumps did arrive; and I don't think I ever
spent a pleasanter evening or got more satisfaction out of a pair of
shoes.  They had not been two minutes on my feet before Larry was
carrying a tray of negus across the room in those which I had worn at
dinner.

"The Dillon girls are going to stay here," said Fanny as I wished her
good night at two o'clock.  "And we'll have dancing every evening as
long as you remain."

"But I shall leave to-morrow," said I.

"Indeed you won't.  Papa will take care of that."

And so he did.  "You had better go over to Ballyglass yourself to-
morrow," said he, "and collect your own things.  There's no knowing
else what you may have to borrow of Larry."

I stayed there three weeks, and in the middle of the third I thought
that everything would be arranged between me and Fanny.  But the aunt
interfered; and in about a twelvemonth after my adventures she
consented to make a more fortunate man happy for his life.