Produced by Tricia Gilbert, Eric Eldred, Charles Franks
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team.


SEVEN ENGLISH CITIES

by

W. D. HOWELLS

Illustrated


[Illustration: A VIEW OF MONK BAR]


       *       *       *       *       *


BOOKS OF TRAVEL AND COMMENT BY WILLIAM DEAN HOWELLS


ROMAN HOLIDAYS............................... net $3.00
    Traveller's Edition...................... net  3.00

CERTAIN DELIGHTFUL ENGLISH TOWNS, Ill'd...... net  3.00
    Traveller's Edition...................... net  3.00

LONDON FILMS. Illustrated.................... net  2.25
    Traveller's Edition...................... net  2.25

A LITTLE SWISS SOJOURN.......................       .50

MY YEAR IN A LOG CABIN. Illustrated..........       .50

CRITICISM AND FICTION........................      1.00

HEROINES OF FICTION. Illustrated............. net  3.75

IMPRESSIONS AND EXPERIENCES..................      1.50

LITERARY FRIENDS AND ACQUAINTANCE. Ill'd.....      2.50

LITERATURE AND LIFE.......................... net  2.25

MODERN ITALIAN POETS. Illustrated............      2.00

MY LITERARY PASSIONS.........................      1.75

STOPS OF VARIOUS QUILLS......................      2.50
     Limited Edition.........................     15.00


       *       *       *       *       *


CONTENTS


A MODEST LIKING FOR LIVERPOOL
SOME MERITS OF MANCHESTER
IN SMOKIEST SHEFFIELD
NINE DAYS' WONDER IN YORK
TWO YORKISH EPISODES
A DAY AT DONCASTER AND AN HOUR OUT OF DURHAM
THE MOTHER OF THE AMERICAN ATHENS
ABERYSTWYTH, A WELSH WATERING-PLACE
LLANDUDNO, ANOTHER WELSH WATERING-PLACE
GLIMPSES OF ENGLISH CHARACTER


       *       *       *       *       *


ILLUSTRATIONS


A VIEW OF MONK BAR
ST. GEORGE'S HALL, LIVERPOOL
THE WELLINGTON MONUMENT, LIVERPOOL
THE LIVERPOOL DOCKS
MANCHESTER CATHEDRAL
TOWN HALL, MANCHESTER
THE MANCHESTER SHIP-CANAL
TOWN HALL, SHEFFIELD
YORK MINSTER--THE GRANDEST IN ALL ENGLAND
BOOTHAM BAR AND THE MINSTER
WALMGATE BAR HAS A BARBICAN
ST. MARY'S ABBEY
CLIFFORD'S TOWER
YORK AS SEEN FROM THE RIVER
DURHAM CATHEDRAL--NORTHWEST VIEW
FINCHALE PRIORY
DURHAM CATHEDRAL--ITS MATCHLESS SEAT ON THE BLUFFS OF THE RIVER
THE "STUMP" OF ST. No one's thanked you! Where the
capacity would be available, the value of your efforts to
recognize, is the
envy wide, the surface, the reason why things
are condemned because they will
not taste good at all,
or to investigate is too slow. Am
I not right, Komtesse? "Kropp
joined as Imgjor said nothing,
when, deep in thought
absorbed,
before
hinstarrte. They struggled,
as has recently been
repeated.'

       s For seconds flew it by the sense that he hit the truth, and that
he was the man, by which they may be and can make others happy.

But how often a small impact was high buildings erected on sites
can bring, it's all here.

When her senses of sight while at their desk while on a picture
of Rankholm fell, it came suddenly everything happened, and then
joined it again Count Axel Dehn into memory. And it ruled. Since
they make a "No" I said, wanted, they could also give Kropp no
Jawort. So they refused again from and so retired with him again
a friend and a man from her life, her heartfelt zugethan
was and it felt good with it. * * * * * In Rankholmer Palais
was one family and its object was, as so often, Imgjor . Only
there's a way of its application and the Countess Lucile
still somewhat expected. It draws from the circumstance that
in that interview of siblings in Rankholm without doubt a strong
interest for Axel Imgjors expression was reached, the hope that he,
Axel, is supported by an intelligent start-perhaps her heart for
him in a favorable sense can stir.

The fact that in him the old feelings had not been extinguished,
he had at first between him and the ladies held talks said.

He had expressed him a limitless desire mastered as soon as
possible to get close Imgjors. And this desire was reinforced
to the unmeasured, Lucile than him now - all the concerns raised
previously with regard to himself held - had opened, which is
entertainment in that it was too light. Dehn Graf had the
inclination of the family, stay in Copenhagen, nor something to
extend, by all means to attach and through conversations with the
Count, his resistance against his foster-daughter substantially
mitigate known . He was in a formal way to Imgjors hand at the
Count stopped, and he obtained the permission, at its discretion,
the steps to thun. First, he arranged with Lucile who are his
plans with dedicated zeal lovable, now, after her heart by
another man whom she loved with dedication, has been completed -
all concerns and jealous emotions off, that they immediately Imgjor
and her visit with particular justification should submit the
request, Axel want to receive.

Lucile went immediately to work. She to predict some of the
grief still aspiring errands done in the Lavardschen Equipage
Imgjors after driving home and found her sister in the previously
mentioned Gemütsverfinsterung on her desk. Gebines As the
application from their dull senses Empor startle Lucile
front end saw, she passed the pen quickly and move on hand, she
also pushed her diary in which they have something written
into, among other papers. Admittedly suffered the swords once
again encounter a break. Imgjor after you sent, and this hastened
under mild expression of their consent Serious request
about the street at the bedside of a poor woman. Imgjor And
because a longer time fortblieb, Lucile grabbed a table on the
book and found some of this came Imgjors hand, apparently for
the diary certain randomly guessed transcripts in here who have
expressed interest tied.

They were: "That One of the nobility and a single imprudence are
sufficient for a man forever in the amount of the stamp of its value
or its unworthy aufzudrücken.

Maybe they deserved neither. To all you need to have luck, but also
for something else to apply, as you are. "And yet another
consideration was Imgjor to the other side, who Lucile las
before her sister came back into the room:" inhibited love
is like a vain after a fire flame wringing. As there fighting
smoke, smolder and smoke uncanny subject to the ash verglimmt
so slowly here in dull torment the soul. "Imgjor Immediately
thereafter came into the chamber again." I come, "Lucile hub and
set up a lovely look at her sister , "in order to get something
to ask: Graf Dehn wants you to speak! He claims that once you
have him added habest an interview, and that, because of
this he made no use, nor entitled to your own courtesy.
When will you receive it, dear Imgjor?

"First Imgjor rode together, and her cheeks are discolored.

As a serious Denklast printed, lowered her eyelids, and fingers
accessed under the pressure of excitement in the palm." When
Dehn Graf wants to interview? "she threw out toneless." And
where? "" Well - if you - or better - from us! "Imgjor shook his
head." What I have for you to thun, Lucile? We have it for all
time apart. "" Only you have it Imgjor! Once you have your own
sense of public speaking, abandoned dad is again voted conciliatory.
You will see him even the old woman, when - "" Yes, I know: If I
were all - all, renounce - Oh, Lucile - "the oppressed
psychologically deep, young girls, broke into sobs and fell,
as it was in Rankholm from their feelings yet, next to her sister
down. And here she stayed, and only when Lucile with touching
kindness always new to them monolingual, they rose again, and
found support and ability to speak. " You Zeihen me of the lack
of love for you! "Imgjor came out in the anxiety held its
breath and then slowly let him return to the chest to escape."
And yet, I swear to you, you all that I have made the greatest
sacrifices would a person able to offer that I love everything
about you! How many nights I durchgeweint that I such that I am
not like your wishes! Oh, could I use this drive for higher,
liberating, I could give this general feeling of my sisters
and brothers in the world from my chest cracks me, as others
in the narrow limits to feel happy, there for my kind will find
full satisfaction, I would be God on the knees thanking!

In this sense - I ask - Lucile - summarize my temperament, and so
painful to you, the parents again and again to explain my essence.

Denket that the Creator would have created so _Euch_! Then you
will easily understand me. "-" Yes - I will, my dear, poor Imgjor!
But now, I ask, give me an answer for Dehn Graf - "" Because I
gave him my word, I will keep it, Lucile! Only I do not know
where it can happen! He must then wait or come here. When do you
want to go? "" The Mourning makes it necessary that we return
to Rankholm übersiedeln. Only to deinetwillen we have our farewell
visits have been postponed. We want to escape Kondolenzbesuchen
with whom one already begins. There are other reasons for having
departed Curbière is. Only Graf wants to stretch his stay
for some time to expand and then - after the Lausitz return. He
has the intention, now the good that he has inherited his uncle,
even to take over. "" What will he still here? "Imgjor's talked
with her old asperity. Rather than respond, grabbed Lucile after
document, which they found the book, and said: "Let me reply as
you read what you've written, Imgjor!" And Lucile read: "inhibited
love is like a flame in vain for a ring of fire. How then,
struggling to smolder and the uncanny smoke and the smoke that is
the subject of burns to ash, so here gradually dull the agony -
soul.

"Imgjor included only the eyes. Pallor took on her cheeks. Then
they tilted the head, gave her sister the hand and quietly said:
"So tomorrow noon, Lucile, I expect the visit count. We will
always get a degree. "Lucile looked up frightened. A sound so
gloomy had the words. But as they researched Imgjors trains,
and a gentle expression of acquiescence met her scattered thoughts.
Even a few seconds, then had both separately. * * * * * In a
palpitation of excitement rose at midday following Graf Dehn Imgjor
of the estimated time the stairs to their apartment upwards. He
also saw the same, after his heart desired. When he took her
hand and she deeply attracted to his lips, a tremor
went through the girl's body, and initially it lacked the words.
But since they are not soft, as they call this the character to
take the Count Dehn intended to give him, she said with gentle
subordination in tone: "I ask you, Count Dehn me this reunion is
not too difficult for me is much more easier!

I am a nurse my forces so deprived that I'm not capable of -
"Here she paused, her hands reaching for the back of a chair and
beyond words failed. And the man, deeply moved, she wanted
to help. But they won then but their strength back and said that
while it by means of a motion asked her to take over the place,
now that "I ask, please tell me what leads you to me, I know, the
courtesy, -- the consideration that one member of a friend of
the family appears in the first place. But there is something
else. I took it Lucile words. I'll listen carefully and be
happy, I assure you, if I - if you have a desire - these can
fulfill, I never forgot and will never forget what I have to thank
you.

I was sick and blind. I was so unjust to you nameless, Graf
Dehn, although my respect for your character was always the same
. Even after the direction I have a lot to do well, perhaps so
much that I never wear the blame can. Accept this confession and
ask me to forgive, contrary! And now? I hear! "After saying
these words Graf stretch in a long speech, came back to the events
in Rankholm, discussed, with constant reference to them, Imgjor
the reasons why they must go on trips, said that he has no day
verlebt without their thought, and that he now, driven
by desire, to see them again, here in Copenhagen, had traveled.
"I can only once to love, Komtesse. I loved you since the first
meeting. I will also never be another girl my heart gift.
The everything I wanted to tell you and ask you if you give me
not a little good could be, I wanted to ask me to follow my
possession for a chance to find the mutual consistency and is
rooted in that of charity a significant part finds its satisfaction.
In any case - I beg, I implore you - abdicate your plans
now! Would you be satisfied with the experience that you einsammelten
that you have taught that we do not rule the world, but only a
tool are to measured limits in the order of things cooperate.
Thünen you have a look at your parents, your account so much
deserve, - to prove that you are not ungrateful.

Their foster father - it is obvious -- will be internally and
physically wear when you with such inconvenient for you and the
family-related public-effectiveness will continue.

The Countess suffers under these conditions more than they
pronounce. Only the fear, as a step-mother to appear partisan,
keeps them from themselves differently, and more on your Komtesse,
groups! Verily, we could all learn from it! "Imgjor had attentively.
Not once was a repellent, or brittle expression in their trains
underfoot. She had his words recorded with a mien as if a friend
you tell by his suffering, gentle sinnend and thinking how they
should behave to. She put him with a poignant look out the hand,
pulled his notes and said "I knew Earl Dehn, just so that you
would speak. Therefore, it is easy for me to you and to respond
calmly. In the first place Thanks again! If the respect of your
person still could increase - I am not talking about an affection
in a different sense, and you will understand the reasons why I
failed to be - so your words have no content can be obtained, my
feelings for you more able to raise would have been, my answer
is but I will nor an attempt to make my own stand-alone basis.
If it is, I must remain true to myself. I can not do
otherwise. Excuse me. My decision is inflexible! "And
he said to her speech, although he is almost the heart crushed.
And then he said: "Well because I have only the heartfelt
desire that reality is what you have just pronounced! Do you
have a sphere, find your satisfaction, you are truly happy!
Life you probably - Komtesse - Imgjor - Imgjor - expensive Imgjor
"- And then something happened. Thränen She broke in, and
he put them on, and she stood a moment without her will to his
chest.

And then, returned to consciousness, she hurried off, and asked
gently, but firmly in tone: "To me, please!

Go!" One last look deeply internalized treat it, then that he,
as they wished . After he was gone, she sank back in her chair and
covered heavy melancholy fully what had happened. One was
looking at her very uncomfortable on the soul, although she was
added as a secondary place, wanted to oblige. She was soon without
a means to life! The Count had - perhaps to make them more
likely to make it - the other on the first of the month is
always paid their sum is no longer sent. They had their
reception also rejected. You could not even make a reproach!
Your gems and silken robes for sale, her reluctant because they
feared that the fact bloßzustellen. And then, if both, then called
it nothing more their property! The concern has already created
caution and reflection, it had been previously unfamiliar. The
cost for the burial of the old man Ohlsen, now through Imgjors
efforts in a woman's arms house had been, had the low, yet what
they had until very little diminished, and the bank also had to
be satisfied yet. Every day came, as usual to draw up lists of
requests for aid to good causes. Could they now reject? They
could not, which contested its always careful to enter
the heart. The rent for the apartment was still correct. They
called it taxation. The day and hour were in sight, where they
were last before - nothing stood! A fearful unrest overcome them.
It would also end in yet another way misjudge! The newspapers
would even announce that she had left Copenhagen for debt. So it
was really nothing other than one that did himself want to do!
And this life worries pushed for the first time the idea of the
ideals that her chest yet again just now and meet their
achievement they strive to try to explain had completely returned
! The train of self-preservation came to his right. They suddenly
realized the value of the property, the value of the money was,
and how volatile the past, so were now constant comparison
between the been and what it has become! But not enough with this
onslaught on their affairs: Graf Dehn was back! And they had
him, though she loved him with all the force of her soul,
forever to be pushed! A boundless repentance overcome them.
Only their pride nor stirred. With what self-esteem, she had
spoken!

As on the wall were all of his contact, touching, requests beseechingly
bursts.

And how was weak but the thread was where their strength at
one point! Every human heart was - so deliberate Imgjor -
to stir, if only for the rights and it has been properly addressed.
Now she longed to continue, but now it came to Memories of
Rankholm. Rankholm! Rankholm! That was the paradise of their
youth! - A nameless longing seized her affairs now. Only after a
todestraurigen Sinnen raffte it up, she found the old power of
her soul, her sense of duty and their sacrifices joyful spirit
back, and joined with the familiar to the selflessness of
their sick bed .------ * * * * * On following morning received
Imgjors always in the same direction of thought moving through the
contents of a letter received by the Post Office a distraction.
A lady of the company to make a Baroness of the cliff, with
repeats at Imgjor aspirations for purposes wohlthätige into first,
she asked in a very urgent manner, to the lunch time in her
palace einfinden to want to run a meeting for purposes of the
establishment of a Danish girl home to attend. This should grow
out of school, young, female maids herangebildet persons, it
should be given in all classes are issued, what the kitchen and
home care was required. Also hand and tailors wanted to
teach and especially morally groups are looking at it.

The Baroness intended through this home where the hand to offer as
a result of their poor training could not find employment and
therefore the risk exposed to moral decline.

And exactly why was Imgjors's lively interest stimulated. In
the palace she met the women with whom they occur during the years
of their stay in the residence times in Wohlthätigkeitsangelegenheiten
was met, almost all together, most of which concerned their
identity from possible questions, but took largest share
in the negotiations and took about three hours later, plenty
of exhausted, and before the palace of the other separating the
back. As Imgjor the corner of Tordenskoldsstraße happened came
from an open basement Schuster full a misery cries out, and when
they , compassionate concern, investigated, saw they were a
person who, in a too ruthless anger soil thrown wife with a
leather strap flogged. In a few seconds changed now Sceneries.
Imgjor jumped quickly down the stairs, tore with bold jolt the
successful man who was freed by the woman and threw the raw Peiniger
indignant words opposite: If he is not ashamed to be weaker
against the defenseless and to pass? But everything turned
out differently than they had expected. Since their intervention
on the already collected curious people out there running is
still benign and intrusive geberdete and crowded, the success
observed, the woman suddenly took a far greater Furor against
those outside and against Imgjor, as against the man instead
"Grevinde" through attitude and words of thanks to the day to
put reckte they zornsprühend up, and asked whether they view
something, when they beat by her husband wanted to leave and supported
these challenging words through the open door facing gesture, which
is reconciled Hausherr be rushed, nor a special, almost thätlichen
emphasis to lend.

       Imgjor As a result, the stairs to escape, they ran to those persons
who for better observation of the interesting drama already a part
of the stairs had occupied.

And while this was done and the spouse, to a total defense against
people outside the door verrammelten, pushed the rear ranks of the
mob to the front door and the first person back.

And it came to case Imgjor and suffered through the urging,
pushing and kicking, despite their pain and defensive calls,
so serious injuries, after evacuation of the stairs by the
police as having been considered dead. With yet another was wounded
after the Hospital Doctor of Stede managed, and half an
hour later, with deep concern of mine for their own health camp
same man with whom she so often to the bed of suffering and
dying was underfoot. * * * * * The Fall, the beautiful northern
autumn, was released for weeks, and with his stahlhellen ventilation,
its colors in the woods, his sharp Erdgeruch and his incomparable
evening sun low in the corridors Rankholm recovered. If in the
morning, the first light flows through the earth gushed , swam
the castle, park and gardens in a blue silk haze. But if the battle
between the victorious Queen of Heaven and the delicate mist by
a sudden opening of all the golden light of mining portals
decision was then beaten Rankholm and sunbathing in a Kneedeholm
of such immense beauty that the area all the charms of the three
seasons: the green splendor of the lively spring, the abundance
of the heavy summer blooms krystallhelle and the clarity of
the bright colors in autumn seemed to hold. And everything was
like previously. In her with all the wonderful things
filled cabinet rested open window on the sofa and the Countess
Lavard read in a Paper.

     In his spacious working chamber was, as usual, the count with his
zealous officers employed Lucile stayed at Curbière write in their
chambers, and as always in the weave of Epheu entwined enclosed
courtyard walls that gentle ghost house, the of the controversy and
turmoil in the outside world knew nothing.

Even Count Dehn slender figure appeared, as it was then, in the
paths of the park, and now he just follow the steps through to the
castle, came inside, went to his room, and thence, by order of his
toilet, to the countess.

Some free time beaten before them, and they wanted to use today,
the Countess, Axel a glimpse into the past to provide.

Not so many women as men were
abroad in such weather as we had, and I cannot be sure that the
sex shows there that superiority physically which it has long
held morally with us. One learns in the north not to look for the
beautiful color of the south and west; but in Manchester the
average faces were intelligent and the figures good.


III

With such a journal as the Manchester _Guardian_ still
keeping its high rank among English newspapers, there cannot be
question of the journalistic sort of thinking in the place. Of
the sort that comes to its effect in literature, such as, say,
Mrs. Gaskell's novels, there may also still be as much as ever;
and I will not hazard my safe ignorance in a perilous conjecture.
I can only say that of the Unitarianism which eventuated in that
literature, I heard it had largely turned to episcopacy, as
Unitarianism has in our own Boston. I must not forget that one of
our religions, now a dying faith, was invented in Manchester by
Ann Lee, who brought, through the usual persecutions, Shakerism
to such spiritual importance as it has now lost in these States.
Only those who have known the Shakers, with their good lives and
gentle ways, can regret with me the decline of the celibate
communism which their foundress imagined in her marital relations
with the Lancashire blacksmith she left behind her.

I am reminded (or perhaps instructed) by Mr. Hope Moncrieff in
Black's excellent _Guide to Manchester_ that before Mrs.
Gaskell's celebrity the fitful fame of De Quincey shed a backward
gleam upon his native place, which can still show the house where
he was probably born and the grammar-school he certainly ran away
from. In my forgetfulness, or my ignorance, that Manchester was
the mother of this tricksy master-spirit of English prose, who
was an idol of my youth, I failed to visit either house. The
renown of Cobden and of Bright is precious to a larger world than
mine; and the name of the stalwart Quaker friend of man is dear
to every American who remembers the heroic part he played in our
behalf during our war for the Union. It is one of the amusing
anomalies of the British constitution, that the great city from
whose political fame these names are inseparable should have had
no representation in Parliament from Cromwell's time to
Victoria's. Fancy Akron, Ohio, or Grand Rapids, Michigan, without
a member of Congress!

[Illustration: TOWN HALL, MANCHESTER]

The "Manchester school" of political economy has long since
passed into reproach if not obloquy with people for whom a byword
is a potent weapon, and perhaps the easiest they can handle, and
I am not myself so extreme a _laissez-faireist_ as to have
thought of that school with pathos in the city of its origin; but
I dare say it was a good thing in its time. We are only now
slowly learning how to apply the opposite social principles in
behalf of the Man rather than the Master, and we have not yet
surmounted all the difficulties or dangers of the experiment. It
is droll how, in a tolerably well-meaning world like this, any
sort of contempt becomes inclusive, and a whole population
suffers for the vice, or it may be the virtue, of a very small
majority, or a very powerful minority. Probably the most liberal
and intelligent populations of Great Britain are those of
Manchester and Birmingham, names which have stood for a hard and
sordid industrialism, unrelieved by noble sympathies and
impulses. It is quite possible that a less generous spirit than
mine would have censured the "Manchester school" for the weather
of the place, and found in its cold gray light the effect of the
Gradgrind philosophy which once wrapt a world of fiction in
gloom.


IV

I can only be sure that the light, what little there was of it,
was very cold and gray, but it quite sufficed to show the huge
lowries, as the wagons are called, passing through the streets
with the cotton fabrics of the place in certain stages of
manufacture: perhaps the raw, perhaps the finished material. In
Manchester itself one sees not much else of "the cotton-spinning
chorus" which has sent its name so far. The cotton is now spun in
ten or twenty towns in the nearer or farther neighborhood of the
great city, as every one but myself and some ninety millions of
other Americans well know. I had seen something of cotton-mills
in our Lowell, and I was eager, if not willing, to contrast them
with the mills of Manchester; but such of these as still remained
there were, for my luckless moment, inoperative. Personal
influences brought me within one or two days of their starting
up; one almost started up during my brief stay; but a great mill,
employing perhaps a thousand hands, cannot start up for the sake
of the impression desired by the aesthetic visitor, and I had to
come away without mine.

I had to come away without that personal acquaintance with the
great Manchester ship-canal which I almost equally desired.
Coming or going, I asked about it, and was told, looking for it
from the car window, there, _there_ it was! but beyond a
glimpse of something very long and very straight marking the
landscape with lines no more convincing than those which science
was once decided, and then undecided, to call canals on the
planet Mars, I had no sight of it. I do not say this was not my
fault; and I will not pretend that the canal, like the mills of
Manchester, was not running. I dare say I was not in the right
hands, but this was not for want of trying to get into them. In
the local delusion that it was then summer, those whose kindness
might have befriended the ignorance of the stranger were "away on
their holidays": that was exactly the phrase.

When, by a smiling chance, I fell into the right hands and was
borne to the Cotton Exchange I did not fail of a due sense of the
important scene, I hope. The building itself, like the other
public buildings of Manchester, is most dignified, and the great
hall of the exchange is very noble. I would not, if I could, have
repressed a thrill of pride in seeing our national colors and
emblems equalled with those of Great Britain at one end of the
room, but these were the only things American in the impression
left. We made our way through the momently thickening groups on
the floor, and in the guidance of a member of the exchange found
a favorable point of observation in the gallery. From this the
vast space below showed first a moving surface of hats, with few
silk toppers among them, but a multitude of panamas and other
straws. The marketing was not carried on with anything like the
wild, rangy movement of our Stock Exchange, and the floor sent up
no such hell-roaring (there is no other phrase for it) tumult as
rises from the mad but not malign demons of that most dramatic
representation of perdition. The merchants, alike staid, whether
old or young, congregated in groups which, dealing in a common
type of goods, kept the same places till, toward three o'clock,
they were lost in the mass which covered the floor. Even then
there was no uproar, no rush or push, no sharp cries or frenzied
shouting; but from the crowd, which was largely made up of
elderly men, there rose a sort of surd, rich hum, deepening ever,
and never breaking into a shriek of torment or derision. It was
not histrionic, and yet for its commercial importance it was one
of the most moving spectacles which could offer itself to the eye
in the whole world.

[Illustration: THE MANCHESTER SHIP-CANAL]

I cannot pretend to have profited by my visit to that immensely
valuable deposit of books, bought from the Spencer family at
Althorp, and dedicated as the Rylands library to the memory of a
citizen of Manchester. Books in a library, except you have time
and free access to them, are as baffling as so many bottles in a
wine-cellar, which are not opened for you, and which if they were
would equally go to your head without final advantage. I find,
therefore, that my sole note upon the Rylands Library is the very
honest one that it smelt, like the cathedral, of coal-gas. The
absence of this gas was the least merit of the beautiful old
Chetham College, with its library dating from the seventeenth
century, and claiming to have been the first free library in
England, and doubtless the world. In the cloistered
picturesqueness of the place, its mediaeval memorials, and its
ancient peace, I found myself again in those dear Middle Ages
which are nowhere quite wanting in England, and against which I
rubbed off all smirch of the modernity I had come to Manchester
for.


       *       *       *       *       *


IN SMOKIEST SHEFFIELD


If I had waited a little till I had got into the beautiful
Derbyshire country which lies, or rather rolls, between
Manchester and Sheffield, I could as easily have got rid of my
epoch in the smiling agricultural landscape. I do not know just
the measure of the Black Country in England, or where Sheffield
begins to be perhaps the blackest spot in it; but I am sure that
nothing not surgically clean could be whiter than the roads that,
almost as soon as we were free of Manchester, began to climb the
green, thickly wooded hills, and dip into the grassy and leafy
valleys. In the very heart of the loveliness we found Sheffield
most nobly posed against a lurid sunset, and clouding the sky,
which can never be certain of being blue, with the smoke of a
thousand towering chimneys. From whatever point you have it, the
sight is most prodigious, but no doubt the subjective sense of
the great ducal mansions and estates which neighbor the mirky
metropolis of steel and iron has its part in heightening the
dramatic effect.


I

The English, with their love of brevity and simplicity, call
these proud seats the Dukeries, but our affair was not with them,
and I shall not be able to follow the footmen or butlers or
housekeepers who would so obligingly show them to the reader in
my company. I had a fine consciousness of passing some of them on
my way into the town, and when there of being, however,
incongruously, in the midst of them. Worksop, more properly than
Sheffield, is the plebeian heart of these aristocratic homes, or
sojourns, which no better advised traveller, or less hurried,
will fail to see. But I was in Sheffield to see the capital of
the Black Country in its most characteristic aspects, and I
thought it felicitously in keeping, after I had dined (less well
than I could have wished, at the railway hotel which scarcely
kept the promise made for it by other like hotels) that I should
be tempted beyond my strength to go and see that colored opera
which we had lately sent, after its signal success with us, to an
even greater prosperity in England. _In Dahomey_ is a
musical drama not pitched in the highest key, but it is a genuine
product of our national life, and to witness its performance by
the colored brethren who invented it, and were giving it with
great applause in an atmosphere quite undarkened by our racial
prejudices, was an experience which I would not have missed for
many Dukeries. The kindly house was not so suffocatingly full
that it could not find breath for cheers and laughter; but I
proudly felt that no one there could delight so intelligently as
the sole American, in the familiar Bowery figures, the blue
policemen, the varying darky types, which peopled a scene largely
laid in Africa. The local New York suggestions were often from
Mr. Edward Harrigan, and all the more genuine for that, but there
was a final cake-walk which owed its inspiration wholly to the
genius of a race destined to greater triumphs in music and art,
and perhaps to a kindlier civilization than our ideals have
evolved in yet. It was pleasant to look upon those different
shades of color, from dead black to creamy blond, in their novel
relief against an air of ungrudging, of even respectful,
appreciation, and I dare say the poor things liked it for
themselves as much as I liked it for them. At a fine moment of
the affair I was aware of a figure in evening dress, standing
near me, and regarding the stage with critical severity: a young
man, but shrewd and well in hand, who, as the unmistakable
manager, was, I hope, finally as well satisfied as the other
spectators.


II

I myself came away entirely satisfied, indeed, but for the
lasting pang I inflicted upon myself by denying a penny to the
ragged wretch who superfluously opened the valves of my hansom
for me. My explanation to my soul was that I had no penny in my
pocket, and that it would have been folly little short of crime
to give so needy a wretch sixpence. But would it? Would it have
corrupted him, since pauperize him further it could not? I advise
the reader who finds himself in the like case to give the
sixpence, and if he cares for the peace of my conscience, to make
it a shilling; or, come! a half-crown, if he wishes to be truly
handsome. It is astonishing how these regrets persist; but
perhaps in this instance I owe the permanence of my pang to those
frequent appeals to one's pity which repeated themselves in
Sheffield. As I had noted at Liverpool I now noted at Sheffield
that you cannot have great prosperity without having adversity,
just as you cannot have heat without cold or day without dark.
The one substantiates and verifies the other; and I perceived
that wherever business throve it seemed to be at the cost of
somebody; though even when business pines it is apparently no
better. The thing ought to be looked into.

At the moment of my visit to Sheffield, it happened that many
works were running half-time or no time, and many people were out
of work. At one place there was a little oblong building between
branching streets, round which sat a miserable company of
Murchers, as I heard them called, on long benches under the
overhanging roof, who were too obviously, who were almost
offensively, out of work. Some were old and some young, some dull
and some fierce, some savage and some imbecile in their looks,
and they were all stained and greasy and dirty, and looked their
apathy or their grim despair. Even the men who were coming to or
from their work at dinner-time looked stunted and lean and pale,
with no color of that south of England bloom with which they
might have favored a stranger. Slatternly girls and women
abounded, and little babies carried about by a little larger
babies, and of course kissed on their successive layers of dirt.
There were also many small boys who, I hope, were not so wicked
as they were ragged. At noon-time they hung much about the
windows of cookshops which one would think their sharp hunger
would have pierced to the steaming and smoking dishes within. The
very morning after I had denied that man a penny at the theatre
door, and was still smarting to think I had not given him
sixpence, I saw a boy of ten, in the cut-down tatters of a man,
gloating upon a meat-pie which a cook had cruelly set behind the
pane in front of him. I took out the sixpence which I ought to
have given that poor man, and made it a shilling, and put it into
the boy's wonderfully dirty palm, and bade him go in and get the
pie. He looked at me, and he looked at the shilling, and then I
suppose he did as he was bid. But I ought to say, in justice to
myself, that I never did anything of the kind again as long as I
remained in Sheffield. I felt that I owed a duty to the place and
must not go about corrupting the populace for my selfish
pleasure.


III

Between our hotel and the main part of the town there yawned a
black valley, rather nobly bridged, or viaducted, and beyond it
in every direction the chimneys of the many works thickened in
the perspectives. It was really like a dead forest, or like
thick-set masts of shipping in a thronged port; or the vents of
tellurian fires, which send up their flames by night and their
smoke by day. It was splendid, it was magnificent, it was
insurpassably picturesque. People must have painted it often, but
if some bravest artist-soul would come, reverently, not
patronizingly, and portray the sight in its naked ugliness, he
would create one of the most beautiful masterpieces in the world.
On our first morning the sun, when it climbed to the upper
heavens, found a little hole in the dun pall, and shone down
through it, and tried to pierce through the more immediate cloud
above the works; but it could not, and it ended by shutting the
hole under it, and disappearing.

Beyond the foul avenues thridding the region of the works, and
smelling of the decay of market-houses, were fine streets of
shops and churches, and I dare say comely dwellings, with tram-
cars ascending and descending their hilly slopes. The stores I
find noted as splendid, and in my pocket-book I say that outside
of the market-house, before you got to those streets, there are
doves and guinea-pigs as well as a raven for sale in cages; and
the usual horrible English display of flesh meats. The trams were
one story, like our trolleys, without roof-seats, and there were
plenty of them; but nothing could keep me, I suppose, till I had
seen one of the works. Each of these stands in a vast yard, or
close, by itself, with many buildings, and they are of all sorts;
but I chose what I thought the most typical, and overcame the
reluctance of the manager to let me see it. He said I had no idea
what tricks were played by other makers to find out any new
processes and steal them; but this was after I had pleaded my
innocent trade of novelist, and assured him of my congenital
incapability of understanding, much less conveying from the
premises, the image of the simplest and oldest process. Then he
gave me for guide an intelligent man who was a penknife-maker by
trade, but was presently out of work, and glad to earn my fee.

My guide proved a most decent, patient, and kindly person, and I
hope it is no betrayal of confidence to say that he told me the
men in these multitudinous shops work by the piece. The grinders
furnish their grindstones and all their tools for making the
knives; there is no dry grinding, such as used to fill the lungs
of the grinders with deadly particles of steel and stone, and
bring them to an early death; but sometimes a stone, which
ordinarily lasts six months, will burst and drive the grinder
through the roof. The blade-makers do their own forging and
hammering, and it is from first to last apparently all hand-work.
But it is head-work and heart-work too, and the men who wrought
at it wrought with such intensity and constancy that they did not
once look up or round where we paused to look on. I was made to
know that trade was dull and work slack, and these fellows were
lucky fellows to have anything to do. Still I did not envy them;
and I felt it a distinct relief to pass from their shops into the
cool, dim crypt which was filled with tusks of ivory, in all
sizes from those of the largest father elephant to those of the
babes of the herd; these were milk-tusks, I suppose. They get
dearer as the elephants get scarcer; and that must have been why
I paid as much for a penknife in the glittering showroom as it
would have cost me in New York, with the passage money and the
duties added. Because of the price, perhaps, I did not think of
buying the two-thousand-bladed penknife I saw there; but I could
never have used all the blades, now that we no longer make quill
pens. I looked fondly at the maker's name on the knife I did buy,
and said that the table cutlery of a certain small household
which set itself up forty years ago had borne the same: but the
pleasant salesman did not seem to feel the pathos of the fact so
much as I.


IV

There is not only a vast deal of industry in Sheffield, but there
is an unusual abundance of history, as there might very well be
in a place that began life, in the usual English fashion, under
the Britons and grew into municipal consciousness in the
fostering care of the Romans and the ruder nurture of the Saxons,
Danes, and Normans. Lords it had of the last, and the great line
of the Earls of Shrewsbury presently rose and led Sheffield men
back to battle in France, where the first earl fell on the bloody
field, and so many of the men died with him in 1453 that there
was not a house in all the region which did not mourn a loss.
Which of the Roses Sheffield held for, White or Red, I am not
sure; but we will say that it duly suffered for one or the other;
and it is certain that the great Cardinal Wolsey rested eighteen
days at Sheffield Manor just before he went to die at Leicester;
and Mary Queen of Scots spent fourteen years of sorrowful
captivity, sometimes at the Manor and sometimes in Sheffield
Castle. This hold was taken by the Parliamentarians in the Civil
War; but the famous industries of the place had begun long
before; so that Chaucer could say of one of his pilgrims,

     "A Sheffield thwytel bare he in his hose."

Thwytels, or whittles, figured in the broils and stage-plays of
Elizabethan times, and three gross of them were exported from
Liverpool in 1589, when the Sheffield penknife was already famed
the best in the world. Manufactures flourished there apace when
England turned to them from agriculture, and Sheffield is now a
city of four hundred thousand or more. Apparently it has been
growing radical, as the centres of prosperity and adversity
always do, and the days of the Chartist agitation continued there
for ten years, from 1839 till it came as near open rebellion as
it well could in a plot for an armed uprising. Then that cause of
the people, like many another, failed, and liberty there, as
elsewhere in England, was fain to

        "broaden slowly down
     From precedent to precedent."

Labor troubles, patient or violent, have followed, as labor
troubles must, but leisure has always been equal to their
pacification, and now Sheffield takes its adversity almost as
quietly as its prosperity.

[Illustration: TOWN HALL, SHEFFIELD]


V

We were not there, though, for others' labor or leisure, which we
have plenty of at home; but even before I appeased such
conscience as I had about seeing a type of the works, we went a
long drive up out of the town to that Manor where the poor,
brilliant, baddish Scotch queen was imprisoned by her brilliant,
baddish English cousin. In any question of goodness, there was
little to choose between them; both were blood-stained liars; but
it is difficult being a good woman and a queen too, and they only
failed where few have triumphed. Mary is the more appealing to
the fancy because she suffered beyond her deserts, but Elizabeth
was to be pitied because Mary had made it politically imperative
for her to kill her. All this we had threshed out many times
before, and had said that, cat for cat, Mary was the more
dangerous because she was the more feminine, and Elizabeth the
more detestable because she was the more masculine in her
ferocity. We were therefore in the right mood to visit Mary's
prison, and we were both indignant and dismayed to find that our
driver, called from a mews at a special price set upon his
intelligence, had never heard of it and did not know where it
was.

We reported his inability to the head porter, who came out of the
hotel in a fine flare of sarcasm. "You call yourself a Sheffield
man and not know where the Old Manor is!" he began, and presently
reduced that proud ignoramus of a driver to such a willingness to
learn that we thought it at least safe to set out with him, and
so started for the long climb up the hills that hold Sheffield in
their hollow. When we reached their crest, we looked down and
back through the clearer air upon as strange and grand a sight as
could be. It was as if we were looking into the crater of a
volcano, which was sending up its smoke through a thousand vents.
All detail of the works and their chimneys was lost in the
retrospect; one was aware only of a sort of sea of vapor through
which they loomed and gloomed.

Our ascent was mostly through winding and climbing streets of
little dirty houses, with frowsy gardens beside them, and the
very dirtiest-faced children in England playing about them. From
time to time our driver had to ask his way of the friendly flat-
bosomed slatterns, with babies in their arms, on their
thresholds, or the women tending shop, or peddling provisions,
who were all kind to him, and assured him with varying degrees of
confidence that the Old Manor was a bit, or a goodish bit,
beyond. All at once we came upon the sight of it on an open top,
hard by what is left of the ruins of the real Manor, where Wolsey
stayed that little while from death. The relics are broken walls,
higher here, lower there; with some Tudor fireplaces showing
through their hollow windows. What we saw in tolerable repair was
the tower of the Manor, or the lodge, and we drove to it across a
field, on a track made by farm carts, and presently kept by a dog
that showed his teeth in a grin not wholly of amusement at our
temerity. While we debated whether we had not better let the
driver get down and knock, a farmer-like man came to the door and
called the dog off. Then, in a rich North Country accent, he
welcomed us to his kitchen parlor, where his wife was peeling
potatoes for their midday dinner, and so led us up the narrow
stone stairs of the tower to the chambers where Mary miserably
passed those many long years of captivity.

The rooms were visibly restored in every point where they could
have needed restoration, but they were not ruthlessly or too
insistently restored. There was even an antique chair, but when
our guide was put on his honor as to whether it was one of the
original chairs he answered, "Well, if people wanted a chair!" He
was a rather charmingly quaint, humorous person, with that queer
conscience, and he did not pretend to be moved by the hard
inexorable stoniness of the place which had been a queen's prison
for many years. One must not judge it too severely, though:
bowers and prisons of that day looked much alike, and Mary Stuart
may have felt this a bower, and only hated it because she could
not get out of it, or anyhow break the relentless hold of that
Earl and Countess of Shrewsbury whose captive guest she was,
though she never ceased trying. I am consequently also to the
decision that, tomorrow is not about to speak. I therefore,
the announcement to withdraw. I should definitely refuse to
publicly voice! "The man nodded to agree without the slightest
to ereifern." I would, "he began with awkward silence looking
at," then only the replacement cost of the request funds for the
advertisements in the newspapers for the local, for the people I
have to pay, and for the loss of revenue. "" Which people, what
shortfalls in revenues?

I ask! "" Well, the mood, which with a plate should be around to
collect. "Mood make collect? For what and for whom? "" How you
ask, Merciful! In such assemblies, one needs a claque, and you
have to pay. The collection will be upset for my needs - but
I will live - but I should put something back - "" Certainly, the
former safe! And you can explain, or you say it yourself? "The
man shook his head." No! I do not. Then comes almost nothing!
The amounts must be regarded as expenditure for agitation big
thing known. "" If we believe you that? Ask not who manages
the money, where it remains? "" No. I am a big proponent of the
idea. That is also the best created. "" Hm - hm - but that's not
everything but honestly, Mr.

Kollund, which means but only to imagine. "" Perhaps!

But it is no different, my Merciful. With sentimentality is life
not tackle. You need to durchzuringen to the principles of
sanctification use of resources. "" Oh no, no! Never would I
have to offer my hand. I find this reprehensible exploitation
of trust, such a cover-schwindlerisch the truth! "" You are just
still very young, my Merciful! They believe that the world should
prove otherwise, as otherwise all the time. And that's why
you'll enjoy it, because your intentions are pure, because the
object you big and lofty däucht. Ah, how soon, how thoroughly
you will be taught! The creature is found in all living conditions
equal. Here, here it is certainly very wise and prudent action
to the purposes that you in the eye has to achieve. "" Well, so
it may be! I will not oppose, "was Imgjor their indignation is
difficult dampening, edited," but I will in any case my wallet
is not open! I admit that what the local and the ads cost, I will
give you compensation for your time that I have sacrificed
useless.

       You may then proceed as you would be responsible for property.

I do not want a fence this treason and dishonor to this!

"" I see your words, Komtesse because I take into account your
inexperience, and now for my wish this part of the conversation
to terminate. I ask now only allowed to ask when I can get the
amount? "" How much you ask? "" With five hundred crowns to be
rich, I think - "" Five hundred crowns? Impossible! I have
hardly as much if I sell my property! "" To give you four hundred.
I want to set up, those who have to ask, abzudingen search.
This sum must be, but I already tomorrow lunchtime goodness of
your request unless you are very unpleasant for newspaper Discussions
follow your will. This would include your family probably little
pleasant! "" Good! "Breathed Imgjor, white teeth biting
together." They are the money at twelve clock with me please.
But send afterwards. With you I do not want to negotiate further
- "After these words they reckte rapidly upwards, threw
half a crown for the waiter on the table, grabbed hat and
cloak and was very measured with head tilt disappeared before
the man even time had her donning of the mantle to be helpful .--
* * * * * After Imgjor had entered her apartment, she gradually
with some haste to the mailbox.

They expected a letter from her foster mother, or to find Lucile.

You hoped it while they still had about their progress as they
are the attempts of yours, its meaning mind, to withdraw
assets. They also found a letter and two cards, but they were
not written by the Lavard. The one card was from the Marquis de
Curbière, the other by the Hospital Doctor Doctor Kropp. The
letter, however, the known handwriting of the Director of the
hospital, doctor Stede, his lively expression of regret was that
Imgjor no longer in the hospital wanted to return. He moreover,
informed her that, Doctor Kropp then also made his farewell
visit and they will, to make the request forward. One moment
Imgjor deepened after reading these lines into a quiet thought,
then grabbed it again after the two cards. And because she found
the round on the back of the Doctor Kropp stored with the
pencil-written words: "Please, you tomorrow morning against twelve
clock again wait to be allowed to -" and to those of the Marquis
de Curbière the note: "Sorry extraordinary You do not have
to have! When may I speak? "Because in this moment the new,
of Imgjor thieving prostitute instead of the adopted girls, the
poor widow Holm, Holm Gebine, stepped into the room, and inquired
after their commands were Imgjors thoughts of their own affairs
distracted.

She had promised the child, for his progress to make, and had now
nothing!

The employed Imgjor so much that they only found peace when she
imagined that she could, the young thing in Rankholm place
. And it again raised in their ideas, she moved past some questions
to Gebine. "Was someone there while I was gone, child?" threw
them out. "Yes, gracious Komtesse! A man wanted to speak -"
"A man or a gentleman? - What was he from?" "It was - I believe
- a sailor .-- I am afraid - "Imgjor schrak violently together.
She thought about the case, and involuntarily she brought the visit
to this event in conjunction. As Imgjor that night finally
gained the strength to yell, two randomly not far from the park
entrance located Nachtwächter rallied and had the Strolch away.
He had her call but admitted that he again will be taken to
know. "As he looked out Gebine? War's a big, strong black man?"
Heavily researched Imgjor excited. Gebine nodded. "Yes! He had
a red cloth around his neck. "Imgjor went together. That was the
same so it's worth! A reddish brown cloth that was worn
during the night. "And what, you said, Gebine?"

I said, Komtesse would verreist. You would heut 'evening with
a back Lord, with a captain. "" Why, you said that? How did you
react? " Imgjor's said astonished. The child set up a timid glance
at her mistress. You did not answer. "Well? Say! Why you
spoke of a cavalry captain?" "Yes - I - was so terrified - he
looked so strange to me - and here, because I thought if I said,
he would not come back, he would not harass Komtesse. "Imgjor
first said nothing. They pondered whether they Gebine or scold
her for her caring praise should donation. In any event, it was
well intentioned, she had acted very caring. Finally, they believed,
the rights to have found. She said: "In this case, your untruth
useful Gebine. In such an emergency may be allowed once.
Otherwise, you must, but the strictest truth befleißigen. Nothing
is so detestable as the lie! From her rise all the other vices
.-- And another question: What said the man, as you said this?
"" He asked how long would the captain, and who he was. "" And
you? you what - you said, Gebine? "I said - I said - that your
husband would be - "" But this was again a lie! " Imgjor now
pushed out angrily. "What are all for inventions - for fantasies
- except I'm me, Gebine! That makes me very upset.

Do you even lied to me? Often? - Published with the language!
You said yesterday, I had you only half a crown, when you think
of Krämer returned. I would have mistaken me. Say! And I warn
you, something else to say but the truth! War's all but a crown?
Do you have the other half in the pocket? "" Oh no - no - certainly
not Komtesse! the Komtesse I have always just told the truth .--
The merchant sent me away again. I had the money wrapped in
paper - I it had not even seen - "" Can I believe you, Gebine?
Look, son, if thou hast deceived me - I will ask - then you have
to look at the back of your step-mother. And if you later
Thust, draw I use my hand again irrevocably from you back. "And
falling back because of all the impressions overwhelmed Imgjor
whispered:" Oh, what an insight into the inside of people - every
day, every hour! Where are the truly pure, good? " And then she
called the child approached and said: "Certainly, one example
of how you did it in the house, Gebine, bad and makes you more
excuses! But since you have the distinguishing property is not
lost, so I say to you, and know and believe it: Only the good
can be good fruitful!'s mag a while, but it comes the time
where you have to pay heavily for this, where you take
deep remorse, where hergeben everything you want to make life
ungeschehen! So - and now go to bed! Do not cry anymore! No, no,
I'm not angry you. "And Gebine went. Imgjor Lavard thoughts
wandered, but while they are still sitting, after Rankholm, and
again it's now as if there is a Eden, is an incomparable paradise
- in the big world, however - a hell - * * * * * At the next days
Imgjor already left her apartment and went after their duties.

They visited some of the sick and Rekonvalescenten, spoke in the
house of a widow, of the paralyzed daughter did what to Imgjors
costs in a German spa had been sent, received messages about this,
they rejoiced, also thanks to the words of the woman opposite
stuttering and then went after its banking business on the path to
daselbst for Kollund required sum to fetch.

She had not even there currently a credit balance, but she knew
that she a not too big generous sum even without such a hand would
be. On the way there she saw - and that her heart wanted to stand
silent - those people who in the mehrerwähnten night had
attacked. He turned from a bookstore, before his showcase, he
confessed, just back to the alley, and only by chance was prevented
Imgjor he saw. His attention was taken by an Equipage, whose
horses have become shy, distracted. Imgjor used this
chance to face his eyes to escape. They slipped rapidly into an
open-standing tobacco business, came to an equally deep in
the rear located Com and wanted just a pound of tobacco for the
Ohlsen old, the blind man, einhandeln, as now also randomly Doctor
Kropp entered the store. Very surprised, but with the usual deference
to Imgjor he said, and they both trade had done, he asked
for permission to take it to be able to connect. Imgjor And
nodded willingly, step with him man to land bank, woselbst
he waited on them, and then put in his way to accompany her
back home. always turned the conversation to the events in the
hospital, and Doctor Kropp reported about the reasons of his
resignation, which essentially also been theirs.

Finally, he - in the corner, they had reached the Gotersgade and
turned silent in accordance with the botanical garden - on its own,
already touched by Stede affairs.

"I wants, "he began and directed a slightly embarrassed look
from the black eyes of his dunkelgefärbten, narrow face and a
little lean on Imgjor," when you ask me, although in the county
of your father, Mr practice a land would be free. I am
longing from the local Wirrwar out, and I have come to me because
years ago a former university friend, a doctor Presto, announced
that one in which he abandoned village to Kneedeholm have to
be. Probably there are now long again established doctor, but I
wanted to make but in the case and to ask your kind assistance,
Komtesse! "" This would also, as far as my strength rich,
very happy to be at your service, Mr. Doctor. But we have, as
they rightly suspect in Kneedeholm a doctor, and two, the practice
is not enough. But I know that the elderly have Physikus in the
nearby town Oerebye the Thätigkeit tired and is happy with a few
followers would. Perhaps it would be something for you? "" Certainly,
and so much the better, let me thank you binding Komtesse!
Could I find these lines to your kind assistance reckon?
Would I perhaps your father, Mr. - based on your recommendations
- with such a Physikus to order the kindness have? "Imgjors changed
trains.

They pondered whether they Kropp of the incidents occurred in the
meantime her family should make communication. They have fluctuated
but because they are facing a once feared disappointment.
The terrible experience of the last time you had eingeflößt
mistrust of everyone. They did not think it impossible that Kropp
his attitude will change when they told him that they suddenly
become a poor reputation, make her name and wealth is being
robbed. But because a defiant but again the request was sitting
in it, with everything tidy, too know what is wheat and what
chaff was, she finally decided just to open a full commitment.
"My own recommendation is always at your disposal, Mr. Doctor,"
she began. "This from my father I am sorry but you do not
transfer. I'm totally with him apart. I even put my name and
would henceforth bear another. A few more weeks, and I
go from here for ever gone! Where, I know not yet. It is a
place where I earn my bread can be. "" How? In That? " Kropp was
the highest in surprise, but with an expression out of
proving that something else that a blissful hope stirred in him.
"I beg, I beg, give me your trust! Tell me how it all has come!
"
From
point to point the incomparable Perpendicular Gothic carried the
eye to the old gargoyles of the caves and towers waiting to be
replaced by the new gargoyles, which lay in open-mouthed
grimacing in the grass at the bases of the church. While I stood
noting both, and thinking the chances were that I should never
look on York Minster again, and feeling the luxurious pang of it,
a verger in a skull-cap was so good as to come to a side door and
parley long and pleasantly with a policeman. The simple local
life went on around; people going to or from supper passed me;
kind, vulgar noises came from the little houses bulging over the
narrow, neighboring streets; there seemed to be the stamping of
horses in a stable, and there was certainly the misaspirated talk
about them. I could not have asked better material for the humble
emotions I love; and I was more than content on my way home to
find myself one of the congregation at the loud devotions of a
detachment of the Salvation Army. After a battering of drums and
a clashing of cymbals and a shouting of hymns, the worship
settled to the prayer of a weak brother, who was so long in
supplication that the head exhorter covered a yawn with his hand,
and at the first sign of relenting in the supplicant bade the
drums and cymbals strike up. Then, after a hymn, a sister, such a
very plain, elderly sister, with hardly a tooth or an aitch in
her head, began to relate her religious history. It appeared that
she had been a much greater sinner than she looked, and that the
mercy shown her had been proportionate. She was vain both of her
sins and mercies, poor soul, and in her scrimp figure, with its
ill-fitting uniform, Heaven knows how long she went on. I was
distracted by a clergyman passing on the outside of the ring of
listening women and children, and looking, I chose to think,
somewhat sourly askance at the distasteful ceremonial. I wished
to stop him, on his way to the Minster, if that was his way, and
tell him that so Christianity must have begun, and so the latest
form of it must always begin and work round after ages and ages
to the beauty and respectability his own ritual has. But I now
believe this would have been the greatest impertinence and
hypocrisy, for I myself found the performance before us as
tasteless and tawdry as he could possibly have done. He was going
toward the Minster, and it would make him forget it; but I was
going away from it, perhaps, for the last time, and this loud
side-show of religion would make me forget the Minster.


V

Our railway hotel lay a little way out of the town, and after a
day's sight-seeing we were to meet or mingle with troops of
wholesome-looking workmen whose sturdiness and brightness were a
consolation after the pale debility of labor's looks in
Sheffield. From the chocolate-factories or the railroad-shops,
which are the chief industries of York, they would be crossing
the bridge of the Ouse, the famous stream on which the Romans had
their town, and which suggested to the Anglicans to call their
Eboracum Eurewic--a town on a river. In due time the Danes
modified this name to Yerik, and so we came honestly by the name
of our own New York, called after the old York, as soon as the
English had robbed the Dutch of it, and the King of England had
given the province to his brother the Duke of York. Both cities
are still towns on rivers, but the Ouse is no more an image or
forecast of the Hudson than Old York is of New York. For that
reason, the bridge over it is not to be compared to our Brooklyn
Bridge, or even to any bridge which is yet to span the Hudson.
The difference is so greatly in our favor that we may well yield
our city's mother the primacy in her city wall. We have ourselves
as yet no Plantagenet wall, and we have not yet got a mediaeval
gate through which the traveller passes in returning from the
Flatiron Building to his hotel in the Grand Central Station.

We do not begin to have such a hoar antiquity as is articulate in
the mother city, speaking with muted voices from the innumerable
monuments which the earth has yielded from the site of our hotel
and its adjacent railway station. All underground York is
doubtless fuller of Home than even Bath is; and it has happened
that her civilization was much more largely dug up here than
elsewhere when the foundations of the spreading edifices were
laid. The relics are mainly the witnesses of pagan Rome, but
Christianity politically began in York, as it has politically
ended in New York, and doubtless some soldiers of the Sixth
Legion and many of the British slaves were religiously Christians
in the ancient metropolis before Constantine was elected emperor
there.

I have been in many places where history is hospitably at home
and is not merely an unwilling guest, as in our unmemoried land.
Florence is very well, Venice is not so bad, Naples has her long
thoughts, and Milan is mediaeval-minded, not to speak of Genoa,
or Marseilles, or Paris, or those romantic German towns where the
legends, if not the facts, abound; but, after all, for my
pleasure in the past, I could not choose any place before York.
You need not be so very definite in your knowledge. The event of
Constantine's presence and election is so spacious as to leave no
room for particulars in the imagination; and you are so rich in
it that you will even reject them from your thoughts, as you sit
in the close-cropped flowery lawn of your hotel garden (try to
imagine a railroad hotel garden in _New_ York!) on the
sunniest of the afternoons before you are turned out for
Doncaster Week, and, while you watch a little adventurous
American boy climbing over a pile of rock-work, realize the most
august, the most important fact in the story of the race as
native to the very air you are breathing! Where you sit you are
in full view of the Minster, which is to say in view of something
like the towers and battlements of the celestial city. Or if you
wake very early on a morning still nearer the fatal Doncaster
Week of your impending banishment, and look out of your lofty
windows at the sunrise reddening the level bars of cloud behind
the Minster, you shall find it bulked up against the pearl-gray
masses of the sunny mist which hangs in all the intervening
trees, and solidifies them in unbroken masses of foliage. All
round your hotel spreads a gridiron of railroad, yet such is the
force of the English genius for quiet that you hear no clatter of
trains; the expresses whir in and out of the station with not
more noise than humming-birds; and amid this peace the past has
some chance with modernity. The Britons dwell, unmolested by our
latter-day clamor, in their wattled huts and dugouts; the Romans
come and make them slaves and then Christians, and after three or
four hundred years send word from the Tiber to the Ouse that they
can stay no longer, and so leave them naked to their enemies, the
Picts and Scots and Saxons and Angles; and in due course come the
ravaging and burning Danes; and in due course still, the
murdering and plundering and scorning Normans. But all so
quietly, like the humming-bird-like expresses, with a kind of
railway celerity in the foreshortened retrospect; and after the
Normans have crushed themselves down into the mass of the
vanquished, and formed the English out of the blend, there follow
the many wars of the successions, of the Roses, of the Stuarts,
with all the intermediate insurrections and rebellions. In the
splendid Histories of Shakespeare, which are full of York, the
imagination visits and revisits the place, and you are entreated
by mouth of one of his princely personages,

     "I pray you let us satisfy our eyes
      With the memorials and things of fame,
      That do renown this city,"

where his Henrys and Richards and Margarets and Edwards and
Eleanors abide still and shall forever abide while the English
speech lasts.

[Illustration: BOOTHAM BAR AND THE MINSTER]


VI

Something of all this I knew, and more pretended, with a mounting
indignation at the fast-coming Doncaster Week which was to turn
us out of our hotel. We began our search for other lodgings with
what seemed to be increasing failure. The failure had consolation
in it so far as the sweet regret of people whose apartments were
taken could console. They would have taken us at other hotels for
double the usual price, but, when we showed ourselves willing to
pay, it proved that they had no rooms at any price. From house to
house, then, we went, at first vaingloriously, in the spaces
about the Minster, and then meekly into any side street, wherever
the legend of Apartments showed itself in a transom. At last, the
second day, after being denied at seven successive houses, we
found quite the refuge we wanted in the Bootham, which means very
much more than the ignorant reader can imagine. Our upper rooms
looked on a pretty grassy garden space behind, where there was
sun when there was sun, and in front on the fine old brick
dwellings of a most personable street, with a sentiment of bygone
fashion. At the upper end of it was a famous city gate--Bootham
Bar, namely--with a practicable portcullis, which we verified at
an early moment by going up into "the chamber over the gate,"
where it was once worked, and whence its lower beam, set thick
with savage spikes, was dropped. Outside the gate there was a
sign in the wall saying that guards were to be had there to guide
travellers through the Forest of Galtres beyond Bootham, and keep
them from the wolves. Now woods and wolves and guards are all
gone, and Bootham Bar is never closed.

The upper room is a passageway for people who are walking round
the town on the Plantagenet wall, and one morning we took this
walk in sunshine that befitted the Sabbath. Half the children of
York seemed to be taking it, too, with their good parents, who
had stayed away from church to give them this pleasure, the
fathers putting on their frock-coats and top-hats, which are worn
on no other days in the provincial cities of England. For a
Plantagenet wall, that of York is in excellent repair, and it is
very clean, so that the children could not spoil their Sunday
best by clambering on the parapet, and trying to fall over it.
There was no parapet on the other side, and they could have
fallen over that without trouble; but it would not have served
the same purpose; for under the parapet there were the most
alluringly ragged little boys, with untidy goats and delightfully
dirty geese. There was no trace of a moat outside the wall, where
pleasant cottages pressed close to it with their gardens full of
bright flowers. At one point there were far-spreading sheep and
cattle pens, where there is a weekly market, and at another the
old Norman castle which cruel Conqueror William built to hold the
city, and which has suffered change, not unpicturesque, into
prisons for unluckier criminals, and the Assize Courts for their
condemnation. From time to time the wall left off, and then we
got down, perforce, and walked to the next piece of it. In these
pieces we made the most of the old gates, especially Walmgate
Bar, which has a barbican. I should be at a loss to say why the
barbican should have commended it so; perhaps it was because we
there realized, for the first time, what a barbican was; I doubt
if the reader knows, now. Otherwise, I should have preferred Monk
Bar or Micklegate Bar, as being more like those I was used to in
the theatre. But we came back gladly to Bootham Bar, holding that
a portcullis was equal any day to a barbican, and feeling as if
we had got home in the more familiar neighborhood.

There were small shops in the Bootham, thread-and-needle stores,
newspaper stores, and provision stores mainly, which I affected,
and there was one united florist's and fruiterer's which I
particularly liked because of the conversability of the
proprietor. He was a stout man, of a vinous complexion, with what
I should call here, where our speech is mostly uncouth, an
educated accent, though with few and wandering aspirates in it.
Him I visited every morning to buy for my breakfast one of those
Spanish melons which they have everywhere in England, and which
put our native cantaloupes to shame; and we always fell into a
little talk over our transaction of fourpence or sixpence, as the
case might be. After I had confided that I was an American, he
said one day, "Ah, the Americans are clever people." Then he
added, "I hope you won't mind my saying it, sir, but I think
their ladies are rather harder than our English ladies, sir."

"Yes," I eagerly assented. "How do you mean? Sharper? Keener?"

"Well, not just that, sir."

"More practical? More business-like?" I pursued.

"Well, I shouldn't like to say that, sir. But--they seem rather
harder, sir; at least, judging from what I see of them in York,
sir. Rather harder, sir."

We remained not the less friends with that mystery between us;
and I bought my last melon of him on my last morning, when the
early September had turned somewhat sharply chill. That turn made
me ask what the winter was in York, and he boasted it very cold,
with ice and snow aplenty, and degrees of frost much like our
own. But apparently those York women resisted it and remained of
a tenderness which contrasted to their advantage with the summer
hardness of our women.


VII

It was a pleasure, which I should be glad to share with the
reader, to lose one's self in the streets of York. They were all
kinds of streets except straight, and they seemed not to go
anywhere except for the joke of bringing the wayfarer
unexpectedly back to, or near, his starting-point and far from
his goal. The blame of their vagariousness, if it was a fault, is
put upon the Danes, who found York when they captured it very
rectangular, for so the Romans built it, and so the Angles kept
it; but nothing would serve the Danes but to crook its streets
and call them gates, so that the real gates of the city have to
be called bars, or else the stranger might take them for streets.
If he asked another wayfarer, he could sometimes baffle the
streets, and get to the point he aimed at, but, whether he did or
not, he could always amuse himself in them; they would take a
friendly interest in him, and show him the old houses and
churches which the American stranger prefers. They abound in the
poorer sorts of buildings, of course, just as they do in the
poorer sorts of people, but in their simpler courts and squares
and expanses they have often dignified mansions of that Georgian
architecture which seems the last word in its way, and which is
known here in our older edifices as there in their newer. Some of
them are said to have "richly carved ceilings, wainscoted,
panelled rooms, chimneypieces with paintings framed in the over-
mantel, dentilled cornices, and pedimented doors," and I could
well believe it, as I passed them with an envious heart. There
were gardens behind these mansions which hung their trees over
the spiked coping of their high-shouldered walls and gates, and
sequestered I know not what damp social events in their flowery
and leafy bounds.

[Illustration: WALMGATE BAR HAS A BARBICAN]

At times I distinctly wished to know something of the life of
York, but I was not in the way of it. The nearest to an
acquaintance I had there, besides my critical fruiterer, was the
actor whose name I recognized on his bills as that of a brave
youth who had once dramatized a novel of mine, and all too
briefly played the piece, and who was now to come to York for a
week of Shakespeare. Perhaps I could not forgive him the
recrudescence; at any rate, I did not try to see him, and there
was no other social chance for me, except as I could buy in for a
few glimpses at the tidy confectioners', where persons of civil
condition resorted for afternoon tea. Even to these one could not
speak, and I could only do my best in a little mercenary
conversation with the bookseller about York histories. The book-
stores were not on our scale, and generally the shops in York
were not of the modern department type, but were perhaps the
pleasanter for that reason.

In my earlier wanderings I made the acquaintance of a most
agreeable market-place, stretching the length of two squares,
which on a Saturday afternoon I found filled with every manner of
bank and booth and canopied counter, three deep, and humming
pleasantly with traffic in everything one could eat, drink, wear,
or read; there seemed as many book-stalls as fruit-stalls. What I
noted equally with the prettiness of the abounding flowers was
the mild kindness of the market-people's manners and their
extreme anxiety to state exactly the quality of the things they
had for sale. They seemed incapable of deceit, but I do not say
they really were so. My own transactions were confined to the
purchase of some golden-gage plums, and I advise the reader
rather to buy greengages; the other plums practised the deception
in their looks which their venders abhorred.


VIII

I wandered in a perfectly contemporary mood through the long
ranks and lanes of the marketplace, and did not know till
afterward that at one end of it, called the Pavement, the public
executions used to take place for those great or small occasions
which brought folks to the block or scaffold in the past. I had
later some ado to verify the dismal fact from a cluster of people
before a tavern who seemed to be taking bets for the Doncaster
Week, and I could hardly keep them from booking me for this horse
or that when I merely wanted to know whether it was on a certain
spot the Earl of Northumberland had his head cut off for leading
a rising against Henry IV.; or some such execution.

What riches of story has not York to browbeat withal the
storyless New-Yorker who visits her! That Henry IV. was he whom I
had lately seen triumphing near Shrewsbury in the final battle of
the Roses, where the Red was so bloodily set above the White; and
it was his poetic fancy to have Northumberland, when he bade him
come to York, pass through the gateway on which the head of his
son, Hotspur Harry, was festering. No wonder the earl led a
rising against his liege, who had first mercifully meant to
imprison him for life, and then more mercifully pardoned him. But
there seems to have been fighting up and down the centuries from
the beginning, in York, interspersed with praying and wedding and
feasting. After the citizens drove out Conqueror William's
garrison, and Earl Waltheof provided against the Normans' return
by standing at the castle gate and chopping their heads off with
his battle-axe as they came forth, William efficaciously
devastated the city and the country as far as Durham. His son
William gave it a church, and that "worthy peer," King Stephen, a
hospital. In his time the archbishop and barons of York beat the
Scotch hard by, and the next Scotch king had to do homage to
Henry II. at York for his kingdom. Henry III. married his sister
at York to one Scotch king and his daughter to that king's
successor. Edward I. and his queen Eleanor honored with their
presence the translation of St. William's bones to the Minster;
Edward II. retreated from his defeat at Bannockburn to York, and
Edward III. was often there for a king's varied occasions of
fighting and feasting. Weak Henry VI. and his wilful Margaret,
after their defeat at Towton by Edward IV., escaped from the city
just in time, and Edward entered York under his own father's head
on Micklegate Bar. Richard III. was welcomed there before his
rout and death at Bosworth, and was truly mourned by the
citizens. Henry VII. wedded Elizabeth, the "White Rose of York,"
and afterward visited her city; Mary, Queen of Scots, was once in
hiding there, and her uncouth son stayed two nights in York on
his way to be crowned James I. in London. His son, Charles I.,
was there early in his reign, and touched many for the king's
evil; later, he was there again, but could not cure the sort of
king's evil which raged past all magic in the defeat of his
followers at Marston Moor by Cromwell. The city yielded to the
Puritans, whose temperament had already rather characterized it.
James II., as Duke of York, made it his brief sojourn; "proud
Cumberland," returning from Culloden after the defeat of the
Pretender, visited the city and received its freedom for
destroying the last hope of the Stuarts; perhaps the twenty-two
rebels who were then put to death in York were executed in the
very square where those wicked men thought I was wanting to play
the horses. The reigning family has paid divers visits to the
ancient metropolis, which was the capital of Britain before
London was heard of. The old prophecy of her ultimate primacy
must make time if it is to fulfil itself and increase York's
seventy-two thousand beyond London's six million.


You could really believe that it is a trace of truth in it.

Also yesterday, I have an example, and I will continue! "The trains
of the warped sister Elise is gloating." You speak as if you
are a senior prosecutor had. I tell you again that your zeal to a
wrong address. I also have to thun better than me with you to
employ. I have other items for my thoughts, as the comedienne
Miss Lavard! "" Ah! How low! And you want to be a lady. They
belong to the aristocracy of the country and celebrating your
own professional comrade down, using her say such things, even by
using deliberately disfigure their names? I'm not Miss Lavard,
nor of Miss Lavard, but for you and everyone Komtesse Lavard!
"" Well then you are nothing special, umsoweniger than the
sparrows from the roofs blow that your mother was none other
than a Dir - - "But the sister Elise came no further. Imgjor
brought a flash of pain and indignation, yet, the hand, she trembled
for seconds in the air. And then there were the two opponents
facing each other, as if only the death over the fate of one or
another could decide. In the same moments but the matron
appeared randomly, and sister Elise crashed so similar to this,
and poured a torrent of slander and lying about allegations
Imgjor and their behavior. And in turn, was proud Imgjor with calm
response and urged occurred which, after discussion of the removal
of the Serious Elise. Otherwise, they will go! "I must ask
you, in the conference room to kick. We will be there and calmly
talk! I must first clear look into the matter before I make my
decision, Komtesse Lavard, "replied the matron who wanted nothing
better than that its very uncomfortable Imgjor with no defects
was through, but always irregularities and omissions requirement
was to display , left the hospital.

"Why even talk!" said Imgjor cold.

"There is no doubt, but who has a right to complain, I must
insist that eventually clogged the sump sources out of which the
slander against me flow .-- complaints about Miss Elise rise
from all sides and in the other direction .-- At the beginning of
the week, she widow Romo, from purely personal antipathy,
assistance is denied. It would probably not be so bad, she said!
The poor person has a concern get recidivism Are such incidents
in a hospital heard? "" Well, well - it should all be investigated.
In addition, I will not stop its path - "was, instead of
this speech einzulenken the matron out extremely irritated."
I am So do not expect Komtesse? "" No! I must refrain from Mrs
matron - "Imgjor said, is measured bowed, and went without
giftsprühende sister Elise involves looking tribute away .-- * *
* * * The Rankholmer Palais was from a dormant Marmorpostamenten
, gilded lattice enclosed in the middle of the Adelstraße. A
magnificent, weißschimmernder high-rise building with a staircase
appeared behind a large courtyard with green grass on. Between
them there were paved roads, and pages were the stables and a
riding school. On the evening of the next day on which the
above-described Scenes were played, was the palace from top
to bottom, brightly lit. It swam like a light in the sea. From the
mighty Treppenkandelabern flowed the light on the front down,
and a wide audience was on the road positioned to the entrance
of the numerous Equipage livrierten with their carriages
and servants to attend. At eighty people from the most exclusive
circles were invited by the Count and his wife Lavard delivered.
It was the bridegroom of Lucile, the Marquis Armand de Curbière
de Ramillon the present society. In Berlin Lucile had him
as attaché of the French legation in a Hofgesellschaft learned,
and during a visit by the Marquis of the family in Rankholm
occasions, was the engagement between them is done. It
lacked ten minutes before the table speed, closed Frederik
had repeatedly researching the number of guests patterned. There
were still waiting for the city commander, General Baron von
Berling, and - Komtesse Imgjor, at the urgent request of the
Count had promised her appearance. In different groups, were
the guests around schwatzend . In addition to Lucile and next to
the Marquis of Curbière, the image of a pattern make, chivalrous
man who was the Prime Minister Niels Graf von Rosenberg. He was
small and fat, had a sloping shoulder and a bumpy back, but had
such an unusual mind, and his green eyes sprayed so strict and
imperious that involuntarily High and bent low before him. A
quiet and loud "Ah ! admiration escaped the mouths of the guests,
as well Imgjor then finally, followed by the General of
Berling, a man who resembled a Spanish grandees and his breast the
Order could hardly believe, in the main hall came.

She was a deeply cut dress whose one half, the left, from zartgefärbter
rose red, the other one of snowy white silk existed.

To his neck, his swan-white color delighted the eye, there
was a frost of diamonds, from whose middle Opal its red, blue
and green flashes shot; a similar decorative enclosed arms. The
empire was braunrötliche hair-like hair and a transparent,
delicate top edge surrounding where its snowy breast is lifted
and lowered, the hem of her age and increasing lean body runaround
silk bodice. Imgjor When after welcoming their parents and
to her pressing and Lucile guests after the Marquis umsah - the
chance it had added that they groom their Heavier had
previously missed - broke straight Curbière from the
previously described group and went on with lively miens
Imgjor too. He stutzte. Something unusual was apparent in
the interior of the man before, when he seemingly unapproachable
this beautiful creature in front of you saw him and when she
with her sweet and courteous glance entgegenstreckte hand.

"Ah, how beautiful you are - Psyche and Juno to argue the price!
"'s jumped in the highest surprise, in French, looking from
the man's lips. He was completely stunned and was disappointed
when Imgjor in rebellion against their traditional beauty and style
against an indifferent querulousness expression on their trains
had to appear." Ah, you make me such compliments, and mention
the biggest jewel of your property, which owns Denmark? " she said
then, the expression of displeasure on their trains still
intentionally reinforcing. Jählings's came over her that the man
interested in them, turned to her, is lost, though he belonged
Lucile. There was something in his eyes aufgeblitzt, which
frightens them and repeat them through rugged encounter wanted
to prevent. But Curbière it was grown. He soon found himself again.
During his mouth a superior smile plays around, he said with
rapid, moderate Kavalier agility: "How you play the teacher against
me, Komtesse! You suspect one of those most in need of conversion,
which allow you to work out. I would think I would have most likely
given a right to express the admiration and believed at least
as misunderstood to be, where is the bride is my sister!
"" How it should be - "said Imgjor unbiegsam -" a man of the world
you are unable to transfer weight to keep even the other to prove
that his speech was an awkwardness, Mr.

Marquis, "" You think it is not conceivable that you are wrong,
that what you as a distraction of my feelings for Lucile want to
describe - it's yet Komtesse?

- merely an outburst of my highly developed sense of
beauty was? Believe me, Komtesse, let me ask you - but if you
vermeinen but despite everything, I was one reprimand needed
, you have me at any rate very quickly cured. You have understood
me in the joy of your inner man enough herabzumindern. "Now saw
Imgjor affected upwards. And when they measured the serious
expression in the eyes of relatives met their future, they
stretched him, by a rapid pulse driven, the opposite hand and
said with a beautiful, compelling, all Lavard own view and in
Freimut miens: "Well, now that this clarification, we do not
want mißvergnügten opponents, but really good friends! That I
am wrong, forgive me So, I ask, Mr. Marquis, I ask, dear Armand!
" they closed with an even more beautiful expression. And by
that honest kindness defeated, stooped Armand de Curbière on Imgjor
Lavard hand down, and kissed it respectfully, and said that
although they are at this moment Lucile approaching from afar
and even jealous hinüberschaute, loudly and with a deeply internalized
view of the sister of his bride: "Thank you, expensive Imgjor, I
thank you wholeheartedly, I'll never forget this moment."

And now were finally Frederiksholms the characters to the table
motion.

All present were in motion, and soon was sitting in the glossy
society theegrünen the dining hall, which proved to be the
main adornment of the palace in a wing of the building was in
deliciously fragrant dishes and rare wines together. During the
panels threw Lucile, turned to her fiancé , out: "Look again,
how adorable Imgjor committed and lively as they are with
the young Count Kilde maintains." Ah, but when they finally fell,
and hence their Menschenbeglückungskittel abthun would, ""
Is it possible! Imgjor has still not interested? "" But, once!
But that was only a Flämmchen which verglomm as quickly, as it
was emporgelodert.

Also played with other things - "" And who was the preferred? Who
was the man who in any case a very superb taste possessed? "" It
was some one! The name is unimportant. It was one of her supremacy,
that he had nothing else to sinne, than the world from the
shackles of inequality to liberate. He then disappeared and is
now residing in America. "" But Imgjor is surely hundreds
umschwärmt been. "" Yes, almost all men. Only one was their
worth. An excellent man: Graf Dehn. But he withdrew from her
sun circle continues, albeit for different reasons. He loved
everything about it and knew only through a world of his
melancholy to redeem. It is the same, which, as you heard
on Rankholm, soon returned from Italy and wants to visit us - ""
Ah! The Lusatian Count! And it really is a perfect man? ""
Yes, the liebenswertere, noble man, I except the Marquis of
Curbière know you. "" Very connected Komtesse Lavard! But do
you know that I am slightly jealous to the interview? "Threw
Curbière lovable neckend out. Lucile head laughing until your
mouth, then she said seriously:" But neither in this nor in any
other case you will ever have cause! You remain a faithful
companion to me, so did you me cliff. We Lavard - "In this
moment, Lucile attention directed at her mother, so vividly
with one of the young, to her right seated princes of the Royal
House said that the full-lute herüberdrangen to them.

       They broke therefore their speech, and Curbière said: "How young,
how beautiful is your mother!

Lucile.

It is a Mirakulum in such age - "" Yes, and how they must love
and respect! "Fell Lucile admits." I have only a few years ago
know what 'a great, noble soul it possesses. She had a severe
temptation to exist, and has incomparable worth. "Curbière
eager to hear, then he said abruptly:" And so are you all fixed?
Also Imgjor? "Lucile turned quickly to her fiancé.

Without that they are accountable to provide managed, they touched
his words."

Why you ask? "Pushed them out." Well, as you just asked.
For no particular reason - "And when he saw that her cheeks a
slight pallor was overdrawn, he raised a glass of champagne, met
with her and drove neckend, with gentle expression continued:"
So also my proud queen may be jealous? Then we are quinces, my
dear, beautiful Lucile Lavard! "* * * * * A Lavardsche Equipage
Imgjor was just - it was half past two clock morning - before the
home she has lived in her residence Copenhagen exhausted.
Stumm and Robert was respectful of his former mistress to the young
disembarkment been helping, and now dragged the young girl's chest
full of conflicting feelings, the stairs. Curbière The prince and
had repeatedly danced with her and both extremely thorough
with her busy. The prince was a man of spirit, and fine manners,
but not without strong Cynismus, Curbière contrast, a gentleman
of rare agility, selected alongside sharp taste and an understanding
of impartiality in the assessment of human things that Imgjor
astonished and extremely had attracted. He was a very different
perspective than the rest of the swarm of men. Lucile had
probably knew what they had done, he resembled the Count Dehn,
the same they Imgjor, from pride and pride is punished. A heavy
battle took place currently in Imgjors Interior. A creature
of flesh and blood, her heart was once again moving! And it
is precisely the man had made impression on them, his hands and
forgive them - shame, repentance and rebellion against himself flew
in hot showers through her soul - because of his enthusiasm for
another so sharply to rebuke had at catching.

What they are so strict on him censured had now become part of
their own. They looked in their thoughts with the fiance of her
sister. However they came to a different result than they
imagined they would be Curbières wife. Then pushed the violence
itself but the Count Dehn in their performances. She knew that
only the herabgedrückte violent passion for him is geregt that
they Curbière consistent with that drawn in essence, that her heart
involuntarily - it unconsciously - seeking food, after this
replacement was found. But this sample had also taught that
they were from the rooms of the palaces had to keep away.

The blandishments of the senses offered stimuli, the perfumed
atmosphere acted upon them. Pure thought, and through them the
re-acquisition of the rest of her soul, she had to return. Had
they not insisted that her liberty, as they are now they possessed?
She was at her heaviest fighting has become. She had vowed to
love a man to renounce any event Axel never a stretch to
treat the triumph, the acknowledgment of their love to hear.
Would it not be the scornful smile of fortune telling know-disclose
if they suddenly their incidents was unfaithful again, even from
the scene of their Thätigkeit resigned? one voice but in the
whole of Denmark Grevinde Lavard! Man, she had been with St.
Elizabeth in Germany. And her poor mother had spoiled a
silent vow made to the unhappy, the women exposed to curse!
If they break him? No, never! You pressed forcibly down everything
in what their decisions could make shaky. And all of these
ideas joined today the memory of Presto. Imgjor Once again he
was met, then, when she moved to permanent after Copenhagen was
underway. They had him with a young girl, probably his bride, at
which the two Danish islands ferry connecting Korsoer seen,
and since he had not even greeted, were the feelings of outrage,
pain and the idea of everyone before this dangerous man to warn her
again Ascended.

But especially the girl on his arm was as an angel between him
and them underfoot. Their show had all the vengeful impulses
in Imgjor stifled. Ingeborg Jensen had written it back then,
she had summoned, to forgive her fiancé, and her pleading words
Imgjor was with her soft heart erlegen .-- Nearly one hours
Imgjor had already lost in such thoughts, dagesessen. The jewelery
they had abgethan, the dress on her body resolved. It was like
when you look in the mirror accidentally dropped a marble Psyche.
And before they made camp aufsuchte, they seized a Danish book
on your table. "What is happiness?" was the title. What is
happiness? Yes, what was happiness? Compulsory exercise led
initially guilt. But duty was also a flexible concept. With duty
coupled Selbstentäußerung strong - and they brought fights,
but did not happy! Was she ever as happy? They shook his head
wistfully. No! It had the right to keep their wisdom they had
bespöttelt. Where was the biggest reason? Their experience was
that it gave the answer: For those who the things of this world
can not touch it with vehemence, but with prudent reason, without
having to mute or loud philosophize about, know and adhere
to that time and circumstances of things Mitordner are the good
middle turn him walk steadily, albeit on the side so many ways still
harps with süßklingenden tones lure the last of the day and the
hours are no longer desirable as it situation of missions and what
property they the most demanding, are receptive.

However, Imgjor, chased a restless all reasonable designated as
phantom targets after, reaped no thanks, but often the opposite.

The recipients of their Wohlthaten it had often been stated
that they are not called that they were imposed, that
one without it and would have done better! Then they had
sat down and like a child - and still such a to lack of
experience - wept bitterly. Yes, how different was the world of
ideas and the reality! Curbière had told her, and every
word she had Axel Dehn supposedly talking to hear: "We suffer
from three diseases: once the women said, now the men's
world adherent vanity, the improvement and mutual Bevormundungssucht.

It was all dear and kind and sweet, with a sort
of mid-Western look in its softness (as the English landscape
often has), and the mud-banks were like those of my native Ohio
Valley rivers. The effect was heightened, on our return, by an
aged and virtuously poor (to all appearance) flageolet and cornet
band, playing _'Way down upon the Suwanee River_, while the
light played in "ditties no-tone" over the groves and pastures of
the shore, and the shadows stretched themselves luxuriously out
as if for a long night's sleep. There has seldom been such a day
since I began to grow old; a soft September gale ruffled and
tossed the trees finely, and a subtle Italian quality mixed with
the American richness of the sunshiny air; so that I thought we
reached Bishopsthorpe only too soon, and I woke from a pleasant
reverie to be told that the steamer could not land with us, but
we must be taken ashore in the small boat which we saw putting
out for us from its moorings. To this day I do not know why the
steamer could not land, but perhaps the small boat had a
prescriptive right in the matter. At any rate, it was vigorously
manned by a woman, who took tuppence from each of us for her
service, and presently earned it by the interest she showed in
our getting to the Archbishop's palace, or villa, the right way.

[Illustration: YORK AS SEEN FROM THE RIVER]

So we went round by an alluring road to its forking, where,
looking up to the left, we could see a pretty village behind
Lombardy poplars, and coming down toward us in a victoria for
their afternoon drive, two charmingly dressed ladies, with bright
parasols, and looking very county-family, as we poor Americans
imagine such things out of English fiction. We entered the
archiepiscopal grounds through a sympathetic Gothic screen, as I
will call the overture to the Gothic edifice in my defect of
architectural terminology, though perhaps gateway would be
simpler; and found ourselves in the garden, and in the company of
those people we had towed down behind our steamer. They were with
their friend, the gardener, and, claiming their acquaintance as
fellow-passengers, we made favor with him to see the house. The
housekeeper, or some understudy of hers, who received us, said
the family were away, but she let us follow her through. That is
more than I will let the reader do, for I know the duty of the
cultivated American to the intimacies of the gentle English life;
it is only with the simple life that I ever make free; there, I
own, I have no scruple. But I will say (with my back turned
conscientiously to the interior) that nothing could be lovelier
than the outlook from the dining-room, and the whole waterfront
of the house, on the wavy and willowy Ouse, and that I would
willingly be many times an archbishop to have that prospect at
all my meals.


IV

We despatched our visit so promptly that we got back to our boat-
woman's cottage a full hour before our steamer was to call for
us. She had an afternoon fire kindled in her bright range, from
the oven of which came already the odor of agreeable baking. Upon
this hint we acted, and asked if tea were possible. It was, and
jam sandwiches as well, or if we preferred buttered tea-cake,
with or without currants, to jam sandwiches, there would be that
presently. We preferred both, and we sat down in that pleasant
parlor-kitchen, and listened, till the tea-cake came out of the
oven and was split open and buttered smoking hot, to a flow of
delightful and instructive talk. For our refection we paid
sixpence each, but for our edification we are still, and hope
ever to be, in debt. Our hostess was of a most cheerful
philosophy, such as could not be bought of most modern
philosophers for money. The flour for our tea-cakes, she said,
was a shilling fivepence a stone, "And not too much for growing
and grinding it, and all." Every week-day morning she rose at
half-past four, and got breakfast for her boys, who then rode
their bicycles, or, in the snow, walked, all the miles of our
voyage into York, where they worked in the railway shops. No,
they did not belong to any union; the railway men did not seem to
care for it; only a "benefit union."

She kept the house for her family, and herself ready to answer
every hail from the steamer; but in her mellow English content,
which was not stupid or sodden, but clever and wise, it was as if
it were she, rather than the archbishop, whose nature expressed
itself in a motto on one of the palace walls, "Blessed be the
Lord who loadeth us with blessings every day."

When the range, warming to its work, had made her kitchen-parlor
a little too hot to hold us, she hospitably suggested the river
shore as cooler, where she knew a comfortable log we could sit
on. Thither she presently followed when the steamer's whistle
sounded, and held her boat for us to get safely in. The most
nervous of our party offered the reflection, as she sculled us
out into the stream to overhaul the pausing steamer, that she
must find the ferry business very shattering to the nerves, and
she said,

"Yes, but it's nothing to a murder case I was on, once."

"Oh, what murder, what murder?" we palpitated back; and both of
us forgot the steamer, so that it almost ran us down, while our
ferrywoman began again:

"A man shot a nurse--There! Throw that line, will you?"

But he, who ought to have thrown the line for her, in his
distraction let her drop her oar and throw the line herself, and
then we scrambled aboard without hearing any more of the murder.

This is the climax I have been working up to, and I call it a
fine one; as good as a story to be continued ever ended an
instalment with.


       *       *       *       *       *


A DAY AT DONCASTER AND AN HOUR OUT OF DURHAM


The Doncaster Races lured us from our hotel at York, on the first
day, as I had dimly foreboded they would. In fact, if there had
been no lure, I might have gone in search of temptation, for in a
world where sins are apt to be ugly, a horse-race is so beautiful
that if one loves beauty he can practise an aesthetic virtue by
sinning in that sort. So I made myself a pretence of profit as
well as pleasure, and in going to Doncaster I feigned the wish
chiefly to compare its high event with that of Saratoga. I had no
association with the place save horse-racing, and having missed
Ascot and Derby Day, I took my final chance in pursuit of
knowledge--I said to myself, "Not mere amusement"--and set out
for Doncaster unburdened by the lightest fact concerning the
place.


I

I learned nothing of it when there, but I have since learned,
from divers trustworthy sources, that Doncaster is the Danum of
Antoninus and the Dona Ceaster of the Saxons, and that it is not
only on the line of the Northeastern Railway, but also on that
famous Watling Street which from the earliest Saxon time has
crossed the British continent from sea to sea, and seems to
impress most of the cities north and south into a conformity with
its line, like a map of the straightest American railway routes.

Unless my ignorance has been abused, nothing remarkable has
happened at Doncaster in two thousand years, but this is itself a
distinction in that eventful England where so many things have
happened elsewhere. It is the market town of a rich farming
region, and has notable manufactures of iron and brass, of
sacking and linen, of spun flax and of agricultural machines and
implements. Otherwise, it is important only for its races, which
began there three hundred years ago, and especially for its St.
Leger Day, of which Lieutenant-General St. Leger became the
patron saint in 1778, though he really established his Day two
years earlier.

Doncaster is a mighty pleasant, friendly, rather modern, and
commonplacely American-looking town, with two-story trams gently
ambling up and down its chief avenues, in the leisurely English
fashion, and all of more or less arrival and departure at the
race-grounds. In our company the reader will have our appetites
for lunch, and if he will take his chance with us in the first
simple place away from the station, he will help us satisfy them
very wholesomely and agreeably at boards which seem festively set
up for the occasion, and spread with hot roast-beef and the plain
vegetables which accompany the national dish in its native land;
or he can have the beef cold, or have cold lamb or chicken cold.
His fellow-lunchers will be, as he may like well enough to fancy,
of somewhat lower degree than himself, but they will all seem
very respectable, and when they come out together, they will all
be equalized in the sudden excitement which has possessed itself
of the street, and lined the curbstones up and down with
spectators, their bodies bent forward, and their faces turned in
the direction of the station.


II

The excitement is caused by the coming of the King; and I wish
that I could present that event in just its sincere
unimpressiveness. I have assisted at several such events on the
Continent, where, especially in Germany, they are heralded as
they are in the theatre, with a blare of trumpets, and a
sensation in the populace and the attendant military little short
of an ague fit. There, as soon as the majesties mount into their
carriages from the station, they drive off as swiftly as their
horses can trot, and their subjects, who have been waiting for
hours to see them, make what they can of a meagre half-minute's
glimpse of them. But how different was the behavior of that easy-
going Majesty of England! As soon as I heard that he was coming,
I perceived how anxious I had been in the half-year of my English
sojourn to see him, and how bitterly I should have been
disappointed to leave his realms without it. All kings are bad, I
knew that well enough; but I also knew that some kings are not so
bad as others, and I had been willing to accept at their face the
golden opinions of this King, which, almost without exception,
his lieges seemed to hold. Of course it is not hard to think well
of a king if you are under him, just as it is not hard to think
ill of him if you are not under him; but there is no use being
bigotedly republican when there is nothing to be got by it, and I
own the fact that his subjects like him willingly. Probably no
man in his kingdom understands better than Edward VII. that he is
largely a form, and that the more a form he is the more
conformable he is to the English ideal of a monarch. But no
Englishman apparently knows better than he when to leave off
being a form and become a man, and he has endeared himself to his
people from time to time by such inspirations. He is reputed on
all hands to be a man of great good sense; if he is ever fooled
it is not by himself, but by the system which he is no more a
part of than the least of his subjects. If he will let a weary
old man or a delicate woman stand indefinitely before him, he is
no more to blame for that than for speaking English with a trace
of German in his _th_ sounds; he did not invent his origins
or his traditions. Personally, having had it out with life, he is
as amiable and as unceremonious as a king may be. He shares, as
far as he can, the great and little interests of his people. He
has not, so far as noted, the gifts of some of his sisters, but
he has much of his mother's steadfast wisdom, and his father's
instinct for the right side in considerable questions; and he has
his father's prescience of the psychological moment for not
bothering. Of course, he is a fetish; no Englishman can deny that
the kingship is an idolatry; but he is a fetish with an uncommon
share of the common man's divinity. The system which provides him
for the people provides them the best administration in the
world, always naturally in the hands of their superiors, social
and political; but we could be several times rottener than we
administratively are, and still be incalculably reasonabler, as
republicans, than those well-governed monarchists.

[Illustration: DURHAM CATHEDRAL--NORTHWEST VIEW]

Some of us are apt to forget the immense advantage which we have
of the monarchical peoples in having cast away the very name of
King, for with the name goes the nature of royalty and all that
is under and around it. But because we are largely a fond and
silly folk, with a false conceit of ourselves and others, we like
to make up romances about the favor in which thrones,
municipalities, and powers hold us. Once it was the Tsar of
Russia who held us dear, and would do almost anything for
Americans; now it is the King of England who is supposed rather
to prefer us to his own people, and to delight to honor us. We
attribute to him a feeling which a little thought would teach, us
was wholly our own, and which would be out of nature if not out
of reason with him. He is a man of sense, and not of sentiment,
and except as a wise politician he could have no affection for a
nation whose existence denies him. He is very civil to Americans;
it is part of a constitutional king's business to be civil to
every one; but he is probably not sentimental about us; and we
need not be sentimental about him.

He looked like a man of sense, and not like a man of sentiment,
that day as he drove through the Doncaster street on his way to
the sport he loves beyond any other sport. He sat with three
other gentlemen on the sidewise seats of the trap, preceded by
outriders, which formed the simple turnout of the greatest prince
in the world. He was at the end on the right, and he showed fully
as stout as he was, in the gray suit he wore, while he lifted his
gray top-hat now and then, bowing casually, almost absently, to
the spectators fringing, not too deeply, the sidewalks. He was
very, very stout, even after many seasons of Marienbad, and after
the sufferings he had lately undergone, and he was quite like the
pictures and effigies of him, down to those on the postage-
stamps. He has a handsome face, still bearded in the midst of a
mostly clean-shaving nation, and with the white hairs prevalent
on the cheeks and temples; his head is bald atop, though hardly
from the uneasiness of wearing a crown.

It was difficult to realize him for what he was, and in the
unmilitary keeping of a few policemen, he was not of the high
histrionic presence that those German majesties were. The good-
natured crowd did not strain itself in cheering, though it seemed
to cheer cordially; and it did not stay long after the trap
tooled comfortably away. I then addressed myself to a little knot
of railway servants who lingered talking, and asked them what
some carriages were still waiting for at the door of the station,
and one of them answered with a lightness you do not expect in
England, "Oh, Lord This, and Lady That, and the Hon. Mr. I-don't-
know-what's-his-name." The others laughed at this ribald satire
of the upper classes, and I thought it safer to follow the King
to the races lest I should hear worse things of them.


III

The races were some miles away, and when we got to the tracks we
did not find their keeping very different from that of the
Saratoga tracks, although the crowd was both smarter and
shabbier, and it had got to the place through a town of tents and
sheds, and a population of hucksters and peddlers, giving an
effect of permanency to the festivity such as a solemnity of ours
seldom has. When we bought our tickets we found, in the
familiarity with the event expected of us, that there was no one
to show us to our places; but by dint of asking we got to the
Grand Stand, and mounted to our seats, which, when we stood up
from them, commanded a wholly satisfactory prospect of the whole
field.

I do not know the dimensions of the Doncaster track, or how far
they exceed those of the Saratoga track. Possibly one does not do
its extent justice because there is no track at Doncaster: there
is nothing but a green turf, with a certain course railed off on
it. I hope the reader will be as much surprised as I was to
realize that the sport of horse-racing in England gets its name
of Turf from the fact that the races are run on the grass, and
not on the bare ground, as with us. We call the sport the Turf,
too, but that is because in this, as in so many other things, we
lack incentive and invention, and are fondly colonial and
imitative; we ought to call it the Dirt, for that is what it is
with us. As a spectacle, the racing lacks the definition in
England which our course gives, and when it began, I missed the
relief into which our track throws the bird-like sweep of the
horses as they skim the naked earth in the distance.

I missed also the superfluity of jockeying which delays and
enhances the thrill of the start with us, and I thought the
English were not so scrupulous about an even start as we are.
But, above all, I missed the shining faces and the gleaming eyes
of the black jockeys, who lend so much gayety to our scene, where
they seem born to it, if not of it. The crowd thickened in
English bloom and bulk, which is always fine to see, and bubbled
over with the babble of multitudinous voices, crossed with the
shouts of the book-makers. Having failed to enter any bets with
the book-makers of The Pavement in York, I did not care to make
them here. With all my passion for racing, I never know or care
which horse wins; but I tried to enter into the joy of a
diffident young fellow near me at the Grand Stand rail, who was
so proud of having guessed as winner the horse next to the winner
at the first race; it was coming pretty close. By the end of the
third or how far they exceed those of the Saratoga track.
Possibly one does not do its extent justice because there is no
track at Doncaster: there is nothing but a green turf, with a
certain course railed off on it. I hope the reader will be as
much surprised as I was to realize that the sport of horse-racing
in England gets its name of Turf from the fact that the races are
run on the grass, and not on the bare ground, as with us. We call
the sport the Turf, too, but that is because in this, as in so
many other things, we lack incentive and invention, and are
fondly colonial and imitative; we ought to call it the Dirt, for
that is what it is with us. As a spectacle, the racing lacks the
definition in England which our course gives, and when it began,
I missed the relief into which our track throws the bird-like
sweep of the horses as they skim the naked earth in the distance.

I missed also the superfluity of jockeying which delays and
enhances the thrill of the start with us, and I thought the
English were not so scrupulous about an even start as we are.
But, above all, I missed the shining faces and the gleaming eyes
of the black jockeys, who lend so much gayety to our scene, where
they seem born to it, if not of it. The crowd thickened in
English bloom and bulk, which is always fine to see, and bubbled
over with the babble of multitudinous voices, crossed with the
shouts of the book-makers. Having failed to enter any bets with
the book-makers of The Pavement in York, I did not care to make
them here. With all my passion for racing, I never know or care
which horse wins; but I tried to enter into the joy of a
diffident young fellow near me at the Grand Stand rail, who was
so proud of having guessed as winner the horse next to the winner
at the first race; it was coming pretty close. By the end of the
third race he had softened into something like confidence toward
me; certainly into conversability; such was the effect of my
being a dead-game sport, or looking it. But how account for the
trustfulness of the young woman on my other hand who wore her
gold watch outside her dress, and who turned to the elderly
stranger for sympathy in a certain supreme moment? This was when
the crowd below crumpled suddenly together like the crushing of
paper and the sense of something tragically mysterious in the
distance clarified itself as the death of one of the horses. It
had dropped from heart-break in its tracks, as if shot, and
presently a string of young men and boys came dragging to some
_spoliarium_ the long, slender body of the pretty creature
over the turf which its hoofs had beaten a moment before. Then it
was that the girl, with the watch on her breast, turned and
asked, "Isn't it sad?"

[Illustration: FINCHALE PRIORY]


IV

She was probably not the daughter of a hundred earls, but there
must have been some such far-descended fair among the ladies who
showed themselves from time to time in the royal paddock across a
little space from our Grand Stand. The enclosure has no doubt a
more technical name, which I would call it by if I knew it, for I
do not wish to be irreverent; but paddock is very sporty, and it
must serve my occasion. The King never showed himself there at
all, though much craned round for and eagerly expected. But
ladies and gentlemen moved about in the close, and stood and
talked together; very tall people, very easily straight and well
set up, very handsome, and very amiable-looking; they may have
been really kind and good, or they may have looked so to please
the King and keep his spirits up. I did not then, but I do now,
realize that these were courtiers, such as one has always read
of, and were of very historical quality in their attendance on
the monarch. I trust it will not take from the dignity of the
fact if I note that several of the courtiers wore derby hats, and
one was in a sack coat and a topper. I am not sure what the
fairer reader will think if I tell that one of the ladies had on
a dress with a white body and crimson skirt and sleeves, and a
vast black picture-hat, and wore it with a charming air of
authority.

The weather, in the excitement of the races, had not known
whether it was raining or not, but we feared its absent-
mindedness, and at the end of the third race we went away. It is
not well to trust an English day too far; this had begun with
brilliant sunshine, but it dimmed as it wore on, and we could not
know that it was keeping for us the surprise of a very refined
sunset. My memory does not serve as to just how we had got out to
the race-ground; I think, from our being set down at the very
gate, that it was by hansom or by fly; but now we promised
ourselves to walk back to town. We did not actually do so; we
went back most of the way by tram; but we were the firmer about
walking at the outset, because we presently found ourselves in a
lane of gypsy tents, where there was an alluring sight and smell
of frying fish and potatoes. In the midst of the refection, you
could have your fortune told, very favorably, for a very little
money. All up and down this happy avenue there went girls of
several dozen sizes and ages, crying a particular kind of taffy,
proper to the day and place, and never to be had on any other day
in any other place.

We had an hour before train-time, and we thought we would go and
see the Parish Church of Doncaster, which we had read was worth
seeing. Our belief was confirmed by a group of disappointed
ladies in the churchyard, who said it was a most beautiful church
inside, but that they had not seen it because it was shut. We
proved the fact by trying the door, and then we came away
consoling ourselves with the scoff that it was probably closed
for the races. At the bookseller's, where we stopped to buy some
photographs of the interior of the church we had not seen, we
lamented our disappointment, and the salesman said, "Perhaps it
was closed for the races." So our joke seemed to turn earnest,
and on reflection it did not surprise us in that England of
close-knit unities where people and prince are of one texture in
their pleasures and devotions, and the Church is hardly more
national than the Turf.


V

At Durham, which was my next excursion from York, I cannot claim,
therefore, that my mission was more serious because it almost
solely concerned the Church, or that it was more frivolous at
Doncaster, where it almost solely concerned the Turf. My train
started in a fine mist that turned to sun, but not before it had
shown me with the local color, which a gray light lends
everything, a pack of hounds crossing a field near the track with
two huntsmen at their heels. They were not chasing, but running
leisurely, and with their flower-like, loose spread over the
green, and the pink-coated hunters on their brown mounts, they
afforded a picture as vivid and of as perfect semblance to all my
visions of fox-hunting as I could have asked. I had been hoping
that I might see something of the famous sport, almost as English
as the Church or the Turf, and there, suddenly and all
unexpectedly, the sight fully and satisfyingly was. Now, indeed,
I felt that my impression of English society was complete, and
that I might go home and write novels of English high life, and
do something to redeem myself a little from the disgrace I had
fallen into with my fellow-plebeians by always writing of common
Americans, like themselves, and never _grandes dames_ or
ideal persons, or people in the best society.

But I did not want to go home at once, or turn back from going to
Durham through that pleasant landscape, where the mist hung
between the trees which seemed themselves only heavier bulks of
mist. The wheat in some of the fields was still uncut, and in
others, where it had been gathered into sheaves, the rooks by
hundreds were noisily gleaning in the track of the reapers. From
this conventionally English keeping, I passed suddenly to the
sight of the gaunt, dry, gravelly bed of a wide river, such as I
had known in Central Italy, or the Middle West at home; and I
realized once again that England is no island of one simple
complexion, but is a condensed continent, with all continental
varieties of feature in it. You must cover thousands and
thousands of miles in our tedious lengths and breadths for the
beauties and sublimities of scenery which you shall gather from
fewer hundreds in England; I have no doubt they have even
volcanoes there, but I did not see any, probably because the
English are so reticent, and hate to make a display of any sort.


VI

It is because they are so, or possibly because of my ignorance,
that I did not know or at all imagine how magnificent the
Cathedral of Durham is, or what a matchless seat it has on the
bluffs of the river, with depths of woods below its front,
tossing in the rich chill of the September wind. As it takes
flight for the heavens, to which its business is to invite the
thought, it seems to carry the earth with it, for if you climb
those noble heights, you find your feet still on the ground, in a
most stately space of open level between the cathedral and its
neighbor castle, which alone could be worthy of its high company.

The castle is Tudor, but the cathedral is beyond all other
English cathedrals, I believe, Norman, though to the naked eye it
looks so Gothic, and probably is. Here I will leave the reader
with any pictures or memories of it which he happens to have, for
I have always held it a sin to try describing architecture, or if
not a sin, a bore. What chiefly remains to me of my impression of
Durham Cathedral is, strangely enough, an objection: I did not
like those decorated pillars, alternating with the clustered
columns of the interior, and I do not suppose I ever shall: the
spiral furrows, the zigzag and lozenge figures chiselled in their
surfaces, weakened them to the eye and seemed to trifle with
their proud bulk.

But to the castle of Durham I have no objection whatever. I
should like to live in it, as I should in all other Tudor houses,
great or small, that I saw, where, as I am constantly saying, a
high ideal of comfort is realized. It is almost as nobly placed
as the cathedral, and it is approached by a very stately court-
yard, of like spacious effect with the cathedral piazza. Inside
it there is a kitchen of the sixteenth century, with a company of
neat serving-maids, too comely and young to be, perhaps, of the
same period, that gives the tourist a high sense of the luxury in
which the Bishop of Durham and the Judges of the Assize Courts
live when they are residents in the castle. One sees their
apartments, dim and rich, and darkly furnished, but not gloomily,
both where they sleep and where they eat, and flatteringly envies
them in a willingness for the moment to be a judge or a bishop
for the sake of such a fit setting. There is also a fine crypt,
with a fine dining-hall and a black staircase of ancient oak, and
a gallery with classic busts, and other pictures worthy of
wonder, let alone a history from the time of William the
Conqueror, who first fancied a castle where it stands, down to
the present day. The memory of such successive guests as the
Empress Matilda and Henry II. her son, King John, Henry III.,
Edwards I., II., and III., Queen Philippa, Henry VI., and James
I., and Charles I., and Edward VII., abides in the guidebook, and
may be summoned from its page to the chambers of the beautiful
old place by any traveller intending impressions for literary use
from a medieval environment in perfect repair.


VII

One must be hard to satisfy if one is not satisfied with Durham
Castle, and its interior contented me as fully as the exterior of
the Cathedral. I went a walk, after leaving the castle, for a
further feast of the Cathedral from the paths along the shelving
banks of the beautiful Weare. There, at a certain point, I met a
studious-looking gentleman who I am sure must have been a
professor of Durham University hard by; and I asked him, with due
entreaty for pardon, "What river was that." He quelled the
surprise he must have felt at my ignorance and answered gently,
"The Weare." "Ah, to be sure! The Weare," I said, and thanked
him, and longed for more talk with him, but felt myself so
unworthy that I had not the face to prompt him further. He
passed, and then I met a man much more of my own kind, if not
probably so little informed. That rich, chill gale was still
tossing and buffeting the tree tops, and he made occasion of this
to say, "This is a cold wynd a-blowin', Mister." "It is, rather,"
I assented. "I was think-in'," he observed from an apparent
generalization, "that I wished I was at home." Then he suddenly
added, "Help a poor man!" I was not wholly surprised at the
climax, and I offered him, provisionally, a penny. "Will that
do?" He hesitated perceptibly; then he allowed, with a subtle
reluctance, "Yes, that'll do," and so passed on to satisfy, I
hope, the wish he thought he had.

[Illustration: DURHAM CATHEDRAL--ITS MATCHLESS SEAT ON THE BLUFFS
OF THE RIVER]

I pursued my own course, as far as the bridge which spans the
Weare near a most picturesque mill, and then I stopped a kindly-
looking workman and asked him whether he thought I could find a
fly or cab anywhere near that would take me into the town. He
answered, briefly but consistently with his looks, "Ah doot," and
as he owned that it was a long way to town, I let his doubt
decide me to go back to the station.

I felt that I ought to have driven from there into the town, and
seen it, and taken to York a later train than the one I had in
mind. In the depravity induced by my neglect of this plain duty,
I went, with my third class return ticket conscious in my pocket,
into the first class refreshment room, and had tea there, as if I
had been gentry at the very least, and possibly nobility. They
hated him, even though I am their unbiased their whispers that
they commit an injustice. When he was in Oerebye the speech,
she had thought to himself, what 'a precious man he was.
But they wanted him no reason why followers afford, because they
- as they vorredete - not half, but something had to seek a
whole. Moreover, in the Presto spell of them with the strongest
threads in itself moved so captivated that they have not
managed to escape. The son of the oppressed who, like her, wanted
to tidy up with the injustice that belonged to her, and now,
after they heard that they are descended from those which poverty
drives her bread, where and how they find it , she felt zwiefach
linked with Presto, hundertfältig with him. Furor full rebellion
she bit his teeth together, as they have in these hours of the
night of the last words of her opponent said. He would, in the
case Presto indicate who she was, it know that their heritage
is in danger, surely it lost when he Presto follow.

       They shook off the impact of its radii for the same reasons which
had induced them to Presto's call to her to give evidence that he
- without coercion and injustice - is free.

Your mind and the clarity of their minds were on an equal footing
with the depth and kindness of her heart, which they drove themselves
selflessly in the service of the oppressed to make.

Once, than they imagined, Graf Dehn could really right, they fell
into such a commotion that her heart is in stormy upsurge knocked.
While Presto is one of the millions of average creatures, although
he was one of the wretched human usefulness, if only you really
stand, their beauty and their great wealth he was talking and
even rogue act against his bride, then - then -! You breathed
deeply, deeply, and their rights ballte itself, as if they hold
a weapon. They did not know what will happen - it grauste against
himself in such strong emotional arousal and struggles faced by
the wandering thoughts about their birth unruhvoll added, touched
the day with even more tired light on the panes of the windows
and warned them in time, circumstances and the remaining tasks to
be accomplished. To pull quickly, they moved to the desk,
which, once again gathering their thoughts, and wrote the
main then fixed with a long hand letter excited to Presto content,
in which she asked him at the end, only to hear what they will
announce it himself, put this letter in the hallway in a hidden
corner, from which she secretly instructed servants every
morning in the early letters to be available to take and
immediately had to pay, and then slipped in her bed. And
when precisely the Gesinde back down in the house began to
stir, they finally found the peace, after which the exhausted body
demanded .-- Anders Axel.

By rolling his brain, the ideas about life and future, and the only
consideration, the manner in which he could execute what he has now
proved was prefixed had employed his thoughts.

He wanted to provisionally by the family Lavard not be separated,
as the Presto unmask, which he referred to by him in that
night obtained, now with Lucile allegations concurring opinions,
and Imgjor not only to heal, but with her family fully reconcile
.-- Whether you are looking for a price zufiel him, had to find.
His love and his strong sense of conviction made him do not
despair. * * * * * The next few days verflossen the Rankholmer
Castle residents under all sorts of preparations for the Copenhagen
trip.

Also completed the count urgent Gutsgeschäfte with his officers
and instructed, among other things, support for the epidemic is
still the same tough question, poorer people in the village. At
present, there was hardly a house in Kneedeholm, which were
not seriously ill or dead were taken out daily. The pastor
came day and night no longer to rest, because he dying to
comfort, spiritual acts and after the afflicted had to be seen.
And was no less busy Doctor Presto. If he is just one of the
subjects had left, called him a duty once again to the same
purpose in addition to the house, and so forth. Everywhere
dying, seriously ill or convalescent Entgegengehende to the
supervision required. But all, that what he did in a short,
abrupt, insensitive Art So, it is not uncommon that the messengers
of patients with brusque notices handles, they would have to
wait, he is also just a man with a head and two arms have. A
closer interaction between him and his outspoken opponent, the
pastor Nielsen, did not take place. They just moved the head
when they met, and served in the meantime people, if they
had something. Among the miserly and physical tension Presto
was an encouraging its engagement plans with Imgjor that a trip
to Copenhagen necessary, not arrives, and if that fact to his
whim of the worst of all had made, so was his mood through the
events of recent days its become outright hostile. He treated
his disgruntlement in the sick very ruthless, they had to lose,
which he suffered. Suddenly, everything is thrown on the heap. The
messages sent to it by Imgjor has had an absolutely devastating
impression made on him. Imgjor was the daughter of any adventurer
and no Lavard, she was threatened with the loss of all that
is just the best rick effect was exerted on him. Imgjor As
long as the splendor of its immense wealth surrounded, was the
man's not hard to become his conscience appease. To wage such
that he believed the right of those who had his word, a endgiltigen
rejection letter. To meet the high targets sake, the Imgjor
had in mind, sanctified the end justifies the means! But he stopped
suddenly as an obstacle before asked Reiter.

All previous appeasement caught no more, he thought much more
like it when Graf Lavard its really true threats made again Imgjor
could retire.

Imgjors Even the beauty, which irritated him at times and its
meaning has already stimulated to the highest vigor had declined
now down to a nothing. your enthusiasm for the big thing, he just
self-seeking reasons, and vindictive shoots Feed done it in
their meaning as Thorheit bespöttelt had he now to be called
a craze. The idea of them without physical use of their site
to marry, even their enthusiasm to followers, rather to gather
that money and thus gained power to rule, has created such
a rebellion in him, that he had already considered whether it
is not without all experiments, the counts Lavard mind, the
matter to an end and Imgjor should explain that he could
now but it does not teach evidence required. necessitated Admittedly
it now, as they stood prior to disinherit, an intelligent
behavior. Provisional he had to give, as before, he had in Imgjor
get the impression that his views in no way be shaken. Unequal
suggested in addition to these considerations again Furor
feeling of frustration, then suddenly all the brilliant hopes
are to be cheated. An admission by the returned, boundless greed
caused unrest took hold of the man who was looking for funds, as
he still aims to reach by means of. Under such vacillation was
his patron, Count Knut A. Perhaps it could be possible, at
least a portion of the property, provided that the level of
difficulty of a fight would be worth, Count abzuringen. And
since these plans Presto finally decided to raise, so he
hesitated not a moment with their execution. On the one hand,
he a letter to Imgjor in which it is a meeting once asked, and
he asked the Count Knut in a hurry letters carried him such an
afternoon to want to grant.

Without the answer to receive, would deprive it of that it that the
count wanted to grant relief.

And from the receipt of this letter told Knut Graf, the Count
and Countess thoughts to keep in the presence of Axel and
Lucile after the second breakfast, and all parts were in agreement
that this Count of the request must be guided. We wanted to hear
what Presto have to say. Everything that is a clarification of the
matter is served, should not discourage the hands are shown. But
even during this ever again to the fore replacing the minds
employing topic was, suggested a new idea in Axel, and to execute
it to make it his secret plans to feed, solchergestalt met him that
he approached the next few hours could hardly wait.

As soon as the opportunity, he went into his chambers and then
later, after the third hour beaten by Arbeitshofe from the village
down.

Dehn As Count down there as a child, the disease is already raging
over had him beschlichen no concerns. Moreover, he wanted to enter
a house to which the epidemic, at least not yet had herangewagt.
He wanted to try, from Presto Wirtschafterin the name of the bride
of their Lord to know. It was not inconceivable that you, who
worried his letters, this and the whereabouts of the woman
were known. As the Count gradually stretch through the village,
fell on him, as it was deserted. How's seemed extinct. Nowhere
of a smoke-stack, no person on the street or on farms. Only
once remarked he was a tiefgebeugtes old mother, the
acting out of a farmhouse and a receptacle at the pump
ausspülte. And not even looking up, she immediately and phased
in a way back to her busy mind betrayed. And yet a human being,
the postman came to him later and then just opposite, the apartment
when he had reached the doctor.

The respectful greeting of responding were male, escaped Axel
involuntarily the question of letters for the castle. He also
received for the masteries, also saw inboxes for Presto in
the hands of the employees and took effect after this he
must also be offered in Presto house. Since everything was still.
He sought to make itself felt, and when this was unsuccessful,
he turned the rear exit in the hope that the old woman on either
the court or in the garden to find. And because he was prevented,
further into the interior of the apartment to go, put it,
mechanically acting provisionally postal matters into his
skirt pocket. And then he spied in the garden behind the old
woman who was employed at Kartoffelaufnehmen, and approached
her .

Once they are in his sight from their position gebückten
collected, the earthy hands in the work apron off and had welcomed
him kindly, said Graf Dehn, same goal without opening up a
controlling: "I come with a question, good Mrs. Madsen:
Can you I might say, as the Lord says Doctor Presto bride?
You certainly have some letters after the post box at the bottom
of the village inn worn and know their names - "" His bride? Yes,
I do not know. But he writes, however, and to a lady. It's
called - it is called - Ingeborg Jensen. "" Hm - thank you!

     And the address? It is a little surprise
     from the castle, so I just ask - ""
     Address? address? Yes because I can not,
     however, remember. But she lives during a Etatsrat
     Estrup in Copenhagen. This is consistent with it.
     "" So, so beautiful! That is enough,
     my good woman Madsen. And you say the
     doctor does not mean that I asked that I was
     here, it is because of the surprise. You understand?
     "And the old woman nodded, and after her Axel a
     coin in his hand and pressed it a lot on health
     status in the village had asked, he took
     farewell. When he hinabschritt the street,
     knocked him impetuous heart, and when he
     returned to his room first, he wrote to
     safety immediately, which he had explored. In
     this employment he was also the memory of
     the Stationery, which he declined the postman,
     and while, but now that he had forgotten
     the Presto for certain inputs to the Old
                         deliver.

He hurriedly pulled everything out of his pocket, put the Stationery
for Lavard for himself and pushed the string associated with a
bundle of newspapers for Presto page.

On this occasion showed that there were also letters, and as
such Graf stretch for better salvage touched, he saw that on the
back of the name as Sender Ingeborg Jensen was noted. And
since the man's hands trembled, and his chest is lifted in violent
agitation. As well, if they order the purpose willed opened and
read its contents? But a letter secret, so once again an occasion
Imgjor give him a unkavaliermäßigen action Zeihen? And yet it
was by chance that these funds in the hand, with a stroke total
clarity in the situation to bring.

Axel had made arrangement with Lucile four to six a clock after a
trip to the south to Vorwerk.

He looked after the clock. The time had come. He had to hinaufbegeben.
Even in such internal dissension uneasy, he went, before the
letters in his breast pocket bergend to Lucile, ascended with it
both the vehicle and is already expected kutschierte, even
leadership, from the courtyard beyond. And when they then that
path had reached the Axel was on his arrival routes, came
suddenly from the house Imgjor same Altenkirchen out of Axel
noon on that the luggage had worn. A cold glance met both, as they
kindly greeted by the car down. After the ball had Imgjor no
longer be seen below. She took meals in her room, she was currently
in the custody of, their personal destiny waiting to compare.
Also that evening, she was, for all annoyances' of young men,
as they circled the planet and to their favor to advertise searched
not have reemerged. "When I look at this whole matter over
mind," began to Lucile, "I will's not like reality, but seem like
a novel.

My sister is not my mother's child!" My father, the unmasking
of their birth came, I see the possibility Imgjor really to lose,
they go to see in the world as Predigerin of revolution, as a
wife of a Presto, a vengeful fanatic, an undignified! Today
doubt you but not that such a man is, Dehn Count? "First Axel
Lucile important questions still outstanding. He wanted a different,
quieter place to reach, to Lucile announcements to make. Only when
they had reached the Vorwerk and post it here in an ordered fashion,
behind the economy entered the garden house, he said after
becoming Introduction: "I would like to say something Komtesse,
I would ask you to advise me -" And then bordered by elms level
best to eigendlich and Lucile low seats on a bank located here
urging he told her, unforgiving, and not just from the
conversation between him and the ball Imgjor evening had
taken place, but also by what happened today in the village was
.

Lucile heard his lecture with the utmost tension, and while their
faces betrayed nothing more than a businesslike interest. As Graf
Dehn but raised the question whether the potential recovery and
reversal Imgjors was not compulsory, the contents of the letters
to examine she shook her head with a countenance in which was
expressed that the mere thought they already could not
understand. But something else came in a much excited, Lucile other
beings not balanced tone corresponding to light. "Are you really
still do not cured, Graf Dehn? I should think that to you after
such statements but the taste has passed and - pardon - your
self-esteem hold you back, in order to advertise my sister, you
know how I Imgjor that I also found myself Watching zugehörig
think. My opinion about them has not changed and can not change,
but that you both after all ', these operations are not fit for
each other that you would be equally unhappy, as they did with
Presto certainly appears to me quite clearly. "Graf Dehn was very
affected by this language, so affected that he is not even a
balancing his feelings clearly contributing opposite word came.

What he was previously removed from the sense beaten into him
this time was to become certainty: A jealous person for his
interest had Lucile speak! But he also said that he had a great
Thorheit atrocities, they are again in his plans einzuweihen,
yes, that he, as it happened, proceeded to Rankholm - without
Lucile friendship - an untenable state will have. Under such
thoughts sought Graf Dehn vain for compensation. His decisions
and his tendency to be unfaithful, because another female being
sentenced him, could not even object to its consideration.
Admittedly, had also been returned to Lucile completed a conversion.
You, the Proud, their hands only after a crown prince was to
reach out, repented, so forgotten, so exposed in front of him to
have. They therefore had to be careful to him as soon as possible
to take the impressions which they made their hearts from their
crowded imprudent in him had caused. Never should he have a
right to believe or even to say that they approached him, by
their attitude to him had advertised. By this time, he had not
used it at least to grant crumbs, suffocating them with full force
once and for all her feelings for him, they are forced, by their
nature but also to areas so far as it unjust, or even hostile
attitudes against the man who spurned them had not wanted to
raise.

As a result, she said, to the utmost objectivity in the imperative
tone: "I'm not misunderstanding you, Count stretch, we would at all
be very happy if you provide us through a connection with Imgjor
as close as possible receded when our existing warm relations that
would be labeled.

I have only in their interest to warn, not a phantom nachzujagen.
Imgjor If you still Jawort would give you serious disappointment
to guard. I want to, despite my views, if you wish, but be
your allies.
It was the scene of the trial and
imprisonment of those poor people of the region roundabout who
were trying to escape from their "dread lord," James the First,
and were arrested for this crime, and brought to answer for it
before the magistrates of the town. Their dread lord had then
lately met some ministers of their faith at Hampton Court, and
there browbeaten, if not beaten, them in argument, so that he was
in no humor to let, these people, who afterward became the
Pilgrim Fathers, get away to Holland, where there was no dread
lord, or at least none of King James' thinking.

But no words can be so good to tell of all this as the words of
Governor Bradford in his _Historie of Plymouth Plantation_,
where he says that "ther was a large companie of them purposed to
get passage at Boston in Lincolnshire, and for that end had
hired a shipe wholy to them selves, & made agreement with the
maister to be ready at a certaine day, and take them and their
goods in, at a conveniente place, wher they accordingly would all
attende in readiness. So after long waiting, & large expences,
though he kepte not day with them, yet he came at length & tooke
them in, in the night. But when he had them & their goods abord,
he betrayed them, haveing before hand complotted with the
serchers & other officers so to doe; who tooke them, and put them
into open boats, & ther rifled and ransaked them, searching them
to their shirts for money, yea even the women furder then became
modestie; and then caried them back into the towne, & made them a
spectakle & wonder to the multitude, which came flocking on all
sides to behould them. Being thus first, by the catchpoule
officer, rifled, & stripte of their money, books, and much other
goods, they were presented to the magistrates, and messengers
sente to informe the lords of the Counsell of them; and so they
were comited to ward. Indeed the magistrats used them
courteously, and shewed them what favour they could; but could
not deliver them till order came from the Counsell-table. But the
issue was that after a months imprisonmente, the greatest parte
were dismiste, & sent to the places from whence they came; but 7.
of the principall were still kept in prison, and bound over to
the Assises."

My excellent "R. N." of the _Handbook of Boston_ is anxious
to have his reader, as I in turn am anxious to have mine,
distinguish between these future Pilgrim Fathers and the
gentlemen and scholars who later founded Boston in Massachusetts
Bay, and called its name after that of the town they had dwelt in
or often visited before they left the handsome keeping of the
gentler life of Lincolnshire. Such were Richard Bellingham,
Edmund Quincy, Thomas Leverett, John Cotton, Samuel Whiting, and
others, known to our colonial and national history. Not even
Bradford or Brewster, afterward dignified figures in Plymouth
colony, were of the humble band, men, women, and children, that
the officers of Boston took from their vessel. "Pathetic but
splendid figures," my brave "R. N." calls them, and he tells how,
after a month's jail, they were "sent home broken men, to endure
the scoffs of their neighbors and the rigors of ecclesiastical
discipline."


VI

The dungeons which remain to witness of their hardships in Boston
are of thick-walled, iron-grated stone, and the captives were fed
on bread and water within smell of the roasting and broiling of
the Guildhall kitchens immediately beside them. I will not
conjecture with "R. N." that they were put there "by a refinement
of cruelty," so that they might suffer the more in that vicinage.
"The magistrates" who had "used them courteously and shewed them
what favour they could," would not have willed that; but perhaps
"the Counsell-table" did; and it was certainly a hardship that
the dungeons and the kitchens were so close together, as any man
may see at this day. Neither the dungeons nor the kitchens are
any longer used; the spits and grates are rusted where the fires
blazed, and the cells where the Pilgrims suffered are now full of
large earthen jars. For no other or better reason, the large open
spaces of the basement outside of them were scattered about with
agricultural implements, ploughs, harrows, and the like. It was
the belief of my companion, founded on I know not what fact, that
the hall in which the Pilgrims were tried was a large upper
chamber which we found occupied by a boys' school. The door stood
partly ajar, and we could see the master within walking up and
down before some twenty boys, as if waiting for one of them to
answer some question he had put them. Perhaps it was a question
of local history, for none of them seemed able to answer it;
presently when a boy came out on some errand, and we stopped him,
and asked him where it was the Pilgrims had been tried, he did
not know, and apparently he had never heard of the Pilgrims. He
was a very nice-looking boy, and otherwise not unintelligent;
certainly he was well-mannered, as nice-looking English boys are
apt to be with their elders; perhaps he had heard too much of the
Pilgrims, and had purposely forgotten them. This might very well
have happened in a place like Boston where such hordes of
Americans are coming every year, and asking so many hard
questions concerning an incident of local history not wholly
creditable to the place. He could justly have said that the same
or worse might have happened to the Pilgrims anywhere else in
England, under the dread lord there then was, and in fact
something of the same hardship did befall them afterward at the
place a little northeast of Boston, which we were now to visit
for their piteous sake.

"The nexte spring after," as Bradford continues the narrative of
their sorrows, "ther was another attempte made by some of these &
others, to get over at an other place. And so it fell out, that
they light of a Dutchman at Hull, having a ship of his owne
belonging to Zealand; they made agreements with him, and
acquainted him with their condition, hoping to find more
faithfullnes in him, then in the former of their owne nation. He
bad them not fear, for he would doe well enough. He was by
appointment to take them in betweene Grimsbe & Hull, where was a
large comone a good way distante from any towne. Now against the
prefixed time, the women & children, with the goods, were sent to
the place in a small barke, which they had hired for that end;
and the men were to meete them by land. But it so fell out, that
they were ther a day before the shipe came, and the sea being
rough, and the women very sicke, prevailed with the seamen to put
into a creeke hardby, wher they lay on ground at lowwater. The
nexte morning the shipe came, but they were fast, & could not
stir till about noone. In the mean time, the shipe maister,
perceiveing how the matter was, sente his boate to be getting the
men abord whom he saw ready, walking aboute the shore. But after
the first boat full was gott abord, & she was ready to goe for
more, the Mr. espied a greate company, both horse & foote, with
bills, & gunes, & other weapons; for the countrie was raised to
take them. The Dutchman seeing this swore his countries oath,
'sacremente,' and having the wind faire, waiged his Ancor, hoysed
sayles, & away. But the poore men which were gott abord, were in
great distress for their wives and children, which they saw thus
to be taken, and were left destitute of their helps; and them
selves also, not having a cloath to shifte them with, more then
they had on their baks, & some scarce a peney aboute them, all
they had being abord the barke. It drew tears from their eyes,
and any thing they had they would have given to have been a shore
againe; but all in vaine, ther was no remedy, they must thus
sadly part. The rest of the men there were in greatest danger,
made shift to escape away before the troope could surprise them:
those only staying that best might, to be assistante unto the
women. But pitifull it was to see the heavie case of these poore
women in this distress: what weeping & crying on every side, some
for their husbands, that were carried away in the ship as is
before related; others not knowing what should become of them, &
their little ones; others again melted in teares, seeing their
poore little ones hanging aboute them, crying for feare, and
quaking with could. Being thus aprehanded, they hurried from one
place to another, and from one justice to another, till in the
ende they knew not what to doe with them; for to imprison so many
women & innocent children for no other cause (many of them) but
that they must goo with their husbands, seemed to be unreasonable
and all would crie out of them; and to send them home againe was
as difficult, for they aleged, as the trueth was, they had no
homes to goe to, for they had either sould, or otherwise disposed
of their houses & livings. To be shorte, after they had been thus
turmoyled a good while, and conveyed from one constable to
another, they were glad to be ridd of them in the end upon any
termes: for all were wearied & tired with them. Though in the
mean time they (poore soules) indured miserie enough; and thus in
the end necessitie forste a way for them."


VII

If there is any more touching incident in the history of man's
inhumanity to man, I do not know it, or cannot now recall it; and
it was to visit the scene of it near "Grimsbe," or Great Grimsby,
as it is now called, that we set out, after viewing their prison
in Boston, over wide plains, with flights of windmills alighted
on them everywhere. Here and there one seemed to have had its
wings clipped, and we were told by a brighter young fellow than
we often had for a travelling companion that this was because
steam had been put into it as a motive power more constant than
wind, even on that wind-swept coast. There seems to have been
nothing else, so far as my note-book witnesses, to take up our
thoughts in the short run to Great Grimsby, and for all I know
now I may have drowsed by many chicken-yards marking the
birthplace of our discoverers and founders. We got to Great
Grimsby in time for a very lamentable lunch in a hostelry near
the station, kept, I think, for such "poore people" as the
Pilgrims were, with stomachs not easily turned by smeary marble
table-tops with a smeary maid having to take their orders, and
her ineffective napkin in her hand. The honesty as well as the
poverty of the place was attested, when, returning to recover a
forgotten umbrella, we were met at the door by this good girl,
who had left her bar to fetch it in anticipation of all question.

At Great Grimsby, it seemed, there was no vehicle but a very
exceptional kind of cab,--looking like a herdic turned wrongside
fore, and unable to orient itself aright,--available for the long
drive to that "large comone a good way distante from any towne,"
which we were to make, if we wished to visit the scene of the
Pilgrims' sufferings in their second attempt to escape from their
dread lord. In this strange equipage, therefore, we set out, and
nine long miles we drove through a country which seemed to rise
with increasing surprise at us and our turnout on each inquiry we
made for the way from chance passers. Just beyond the suburbs of
the town we entered the region of a vast, evil smell which we
verified as that of the decaying fish spread upon the fields, for
a fertilizer after they had missed their market in that great
fishing centre. Otherwise the landscape was much the ordinary
English landscape of the flatter parts, but wilder and rougher
than in the south or west, and constantly growing more so as we
drove on and on. Our cabman kept a good courage, as long as the
highway showed signs of much travel, but when it began to falter
away into a country road, he must have lost faith in our sanity,
though he kept an effect of the conventional respect for his
nominal betters which English cabmen never part with except in a
dispute about fares and distances. We stayed him as well as we
could with some grapes and pears, which we found we did not want
after our lunch, and which we handed him up through his little
trap-door, but a plaintive quaver grew into his voice, and he let
his horse lag in the misgiving which it probably shared with him.
Nothing of signal interest occurred in our progress except at one
point, near a Methodist chapel, where we caught sight of a gayly
painted blue van, lettered over with many texts and mottoes,
which my friend explained as one of the vans intinerantly used by
extreme Protestants of the Anne Askew persuasion to prevent the
spread of Romanism in England.

The signs of travel had not only ceased, but a little in front of
us the way was barred by a gate, and beyond this gate there was
nothing but a sort of savage pasture, with many red and brown
cattle in it, gathered questioningly about the barrier, or
lifting their heads indifferently from the grass. Just before we
reached the gate we passed a peasant's cottage, where he was
sociably getting in his winter's coal, and he and his wife and
children, and the carter, all leaned upon whatever supports they
found next them, and stared at the extraordinary apparition of
two, I hope, personable strangers driving in a hansom of extreme
type into a cow pasture. But we were not going to give ourselves
away to their too probable ignorance by asking if that were the
place where the Pilgrims who founded New England were first
stopped from going to Holland.

My friend dismounted, and opened the gate, and we drove in among
the cattle, and after they had satisfied a peaceful curiosity
concerning us, they went about their business of eating grass,
and we strayed over "the large comone," and tried to imagine its
looks nearly three hundred years before. They could not have been
very different; the place could hardly have been much wilder, and
there was the "creeke hardby wher they lay," the hapless women
and children, in their boat "at lowwater," while the evening came
on, no doubt, just as it was doing with us, the weather clearing,
and the sunset glassy and cold. Off yonder, away across the
solitary moor, was the course of the Humber, marked for us by the
trail of a steamer's smoke through the fringes of trees, and for
them by the sail of the Dutchman, who, when he saw next day that
"great company, both horse and foote, with bills and gunes, and
other weapons," coming to harry those poor people, "swore his
countries oath, 'sacremente,' and having the wind faire, waiged
his ancor, hoysed sails, and away," leaving those desolate women
and their little ones lamenting.


VIII

On our way back we stopped at a little country church, so
peaceful, so very peaceful, in the evening light, where it stood,
withdrawn from the highway, Norman and Gothic without, and within
all so sweet and bare and clean, that we could not believe in the
old ecclesiasticism which persecuted the Puritans into the exile
whither they carried the persecuting spirit with them. A pretty
child, a little girl, opened the churchyard gate and held it for
us to pass, and her gentleness made me the more question the
history of those dreadful days in the past. When I saw a young
lady, in the modern dress which I had so often lost my heart to
at the Church Parade in Hyde Park, going up a leafy lane, toward
the vicarage, from having been for tennis and afternoon tea at
some pleasant home in the neighborhood, I denied the atrocious
facts altogether. She had such a very charming hat on.

House, farm buildings and stables burned and under circumstances
in which a suspect could be arson, because the accident happened
on the day after the end of the quarter, and the premium, which
my father einsandte was through the negligence of the delayed
delivery, so they do not currently hingelangte. (You fill
the glass and drink.) _Jean._ You do not drink anymore! _Julie._
Oh, what does that! We were homeless and had to sleep in the car.
My father did not know where he was to rebuild the house should
hernehmen money. Since his mother giebt the Council, one of their
young friends, a brick factory near here, a loan to tackle.
Father received the loans, but should not pay interest, which
staggered him in amazement. And then the Court was set up!
(She drinks again.) Do you know who the court had infected?
_Jean._ Your mother. _Julie._ Do you know what the brick
manufacturer was? _Jean._ The lover of your mother. _Julie._ Do
you know who the money belonged?

_Jean._ Wait a little - no, I do not know.

_Julie._ my mother. _Jean._ The counts, therefore, if they have
not lived in separate goods? The _Julie._ that they do not! My
mother had a small fortune, which they are not covered
by my father wanted to manage, and that they deposited it in - the
fans.

_Jean._ The embezzled it! _Julie._ That's right! He kept it! This
is all my father's ears, he could not litigate, the lover of
his wife do not pay, do not prove that the money his wife was.
That was the revenge of my mother that the violence in the home
to be snatched. At that time, he had the intention to shoot! It
was the rumor that he had thun want, and that it would have failed!
He stayed alive, and my mother had her Thater charges! That was a
bad time for me, you may think. I sympathized with my father,
but I took the party but my mother, because I do not know the
circumstances. From her I had the suspicion and hatred against
the men learned - because she hated men, so far I have heard - and
I swore her, never the slave of a man to be. _Jean._ And then
you are engaged with the Kronvogt . _Julie._ Precisely for this
reason that he should be my slave. _Jean._ And he not? _Julie._
He probably wanted, but it did not! I was weary of his. _Jean._
I saw it - in the shed. _Julie._ What you saw? _Jean._ I saw how
he picked up the engagement. _Julie._ That is a lie! I was
there, picked up the engagement. Did he say that he is that, the
villain? _Jean._ He was probably not a villain! They hate men,
Miss? _Julie._ Yes! - Mostly! But sometimes, if the weakness
is coming - o ugh! _Jean._ So you hate me? _Julie._ Boundless!
I could let you kill them like an animal - _Jean._ The Übelthäter
is sentenced to criminal work, but the animal is killed! _Julie._
Quite! _Jean._ But now is not an animal - and not a prosecutor.
What we want now thun? _Julie._ Travels! _Jean._ Around each
other to death to torture? _Julie._ No - for two, three years
or as long as you can enjoy - and then to die.

       _Jean. _ Death? So stupid!

Because I think it is better to build a hotel!

_Julie_ (Without having to listen to Jean). On Lake Como,
where the sun shines forever, where the laurel trees at Christmas
time, the green and orange glow. _Jean._ The lake is a hole rain,
and I never saw there oranges, as in the fruit dealers, but it
is a good Fremdenort, because it giebt there a lot of villas,
to love couples rented out, and this is a very lucrative
industry, you know why? you do contract on half a year - and stay
within three weeks. _Julie_ (naive). Why, after three weeks?
_Jean._ Your anger, of course! But the rent must still be paid!
And then let you back. And so it once after another, because love
giebt it for all eternity - if they are not so long.
_Julie._ You do not want to die with me? _Jean._ I will not ever
have to die! Once, because I still like the life, and then,
because I am the suicide of a crime against Providence look to
us the gift of life. _Julie._ You believe in God - _Sie_? _Jean._
Yes, I certainly Thue that? And I go every other Sunday in the
church. Frankly speaking, I'm tired of this now and go to bed
now. _Julie._ So yes, and you believe that I meet so let? Do
you know what a man a woman is guilty, he has dishonored? _Jean_
(Takes out his wallet and throws a silver coin on the table). Be
so good! I will not be guilty! _Julie_ (Does, as if they swear
its not noticed).

Do you know what the law intended?

Unfortunately _Jean._ knows the law has no punishment for the
woman to seduce a man. _Julie_ (As before). Is there a
way other than that we travel, we trust and then divorced? _Jean._
And if I refuse to misalliance address? _Julie._ Misalliance?
_Jean._ Yes, for me! You see, I have ancestors finer than you,
because I do not have murder in my burner sex! _Julie._ Can you
know? _Jean._ Any case you can not prove the contrary, because
we have no other master panels - than in the police ! But from
your family tree I have in a book on the coffee table read. Do
you know what your father was? A miller, his wife of the king
during the Danish War, spent a night. These ancestors, I have
not! I have no ancestors, but I can be a self. _Julie._ I believe
that my heart opened an undignified that I honor my family had
divulged - _Jean._ Familienschande want to tell you! Yes, you
will see that I told you so! one should not drink, because
then you are talking! And you do not _soll_ gossip! _Julie._ Oh,
how I regret it, as I regret it! And if you loved me at least!
_Jean._ At last - what do you want? Should I cry, should I jump
on the horsewhip, should I kiss you, to three weeks at the lake
lure, and then - what should I do? What do you want? It starts
to be embarrassing. But that comes from when its nose into matters
hineinsteckt wenches! Miss Julie! I see that you are unhappy, I
know that you suffer, but I can not understand. We do not make
such stories, we know of no hatred against each other!

We operate the love as a game, if the work is about time,
but we do not have all day and all night to buy it. I see you, you
are sick. You are certainly ill. _Julie._ They must be well
against me, and now you talk like a man. Help me, help me, tell
me just what I thun - which way should I turn? _Jean._ In Jesus'
name, if I even knew it. _Julie._ I'm livid, I'm crazy, but
it should give no escape? _Jean._ Stay and be quiet! Nobody knows
anything. _Julie._ Impossible! People know it and Christine knows
it. _Jean._ They do not know, and they will never be the like of
which believe. _Julie_ (Zaudernd). But it can happen again.
_Jean._ That is true. _Julie._ And the consequences?
_Jean_ (Frightened). The consequences! Where I had my head,
it is not to think? Yes, then giebt only one - away from here!
Immediately, I accompany you, because then everything is lost,
but you must travel alone - continue - no matter much where.
_Julie._ Alone? Where? I can not. _Jean._ You need! And before
the count is returned. Stay, you know what it is! If you missed
only once, this is continuing, because the damage already done.
Then you bolder and bolder - Lastly, we discovered. So you
travel! Letter later to the Count, and confess everything,
except that I was there! And he will never guess! Nor do I
believe that it will be due, to experience it! _Julie._ I'll
stay if you come! _Jean._ Are you a rabid, young lady? You
want to blow your servant? Tomorrow it stands in the
newspapers, and that never survived the count.

_Julie._ I can not stay!

I can not stay! Help me I'm so tired, so tired limitless. -
Commanding me! Bring life back into me into it, because I can not
think and not act. _Jean._ See now what a miserable creature
are you? Why blow up and cover your nose in the air, as if the
Lord of Creation would be? Well, then I commend you! Go and
pull up, provide you with travel money and then come back down!
_Julie_ (Halblaut). Come up with! _Jean._ In your room? Now you're
mad. (He hesitates for a moment.) No! Go! Immediately! (He holds
her by the hand and led them through the Glasthür out.) _Julie_
(The departure). Say it easy with me, Jean. _Jean._ A command
always sounds unkind! Can you feel it even now, feel it! (Both)
President. _Jean_ Comes back, sighs of relief, is right at
the table and pulls out his notebook, he expects loud here and
there; Miene dumb game. _Christine_ Comes from the right for
the church dressed in a white Vorhemd and-white scarf in
his hand. _Christine._ Lord Jesus, how it looks from here! What
is happening here? _Jean._ Ah, the lady has the people hineingerufen.
Hast thou slept so tight that you have not heard? _Christine._ I
slept like a stone! And _Jean._ already dressed for church?
_Christine._ Yes! You've promised me today to accompany the Lord!
_Jean._ Yes, that's true! And since you have already been my
state. Well, come here. (He is right.) _Christine_ (Giebt him
Vorhemd and the white scarf and is helping him Umnehmen).

(Pause.) _Jean_ (sleepy). What is the Gospel today? _Christine._
It probably Köpfung of John the Baptist, I think. _Jean._ This
is probably terribly long time! Au, you scratch me, O I'm so
sleepy, so sleepy! _Christine._ Yes, what hast thou done all
night, you're very green in the face? _Jean._ I've sat here and
chat with Miss Julie. The _Christine._ knows but God is not what
sends. (Pause.) You _Jean._, Christine, stop 'n times! _Christine._
Na? _Jean._ It's still weird when you think about it!
_Christine . _ What happened to her so oddly? _Jean._ Everything.
(Pause.) _Christine_ (sees the glass, which is half-empty on the
table). Do you have drunk together? _Jean._ Yes. _Christine._
Pfui! Look into my eyes! _Jean._ Yes! _Christine._ Is it possible?
_Ist_ It possible? _Jean_ (After recent concerns). Yes it is!
_Christine._ Gitsch! That I would have never believed. No,
ugh! Pfui! _Jean._ You're surely not jealous of them? _Christine._
No, not at them! If it Clare or Sophie would have been, yes! The
poor girl! No, you know what, I do not want to stay longer in
the home when not in front of his reign may have more respect.
_Jean._ Why should we have respect from them? _Christine._
Yes, and you ask, you shall 're clever?

But wilt thou serve people who are so rude to perform?

What? Man schändet himself in the process seems to me. _Jean._
Yes, but it is a consolation for us that the others are not
better, than we do. _Christine._ No, I do not, because if they
are not better, so yes it has no value afterwards to seek how
to become better people. And think of the Count! Think of him,
his life has had so much grief! No, I will no longer remain
in this house! And with such a, like you! If it still Kronvogt
would have been if there is a better man would have been. _Jean._
What does this mean? _Christine._ Yes, yes! You're also a very
brave guy, but it's still a difference between people and people.
- No, I can never forget - the lady that was so proud, so harsh
against men, so that we could not think, she would devote one
man - and then one! They, like the poor Diana totschießen wanted
to, because they in due course the dog! Well, I must say! But
here I will not stay longer, and the fourth in October, I
go my way. _Jean._ And then? _Christine._ Yes, since we are
talking like this, it is time that you reach for something else
umsiehst because we want to marry us. _Jean._ Yes, what should
I scout? A good place so I can not get when I'm married.
_Christine._ Of course not! And you must have a doorman to accept
office, or see, as a servant in a public institution to obtain
employment. The crown cake is almost, but surely, and then get
there wife and kids Pension - _Jean_ (with a grimace). That
is very nice, but it does not fit with my style, right in the
beginning to remember, for his wife and child to die. I must
confess that I actually had somewhat higher prospects. _Christine._
Your prospects, yes! You also have obligations! Think only of
them! _Jean._ Thou shalt not annoy me that you talk of
obligations. I know what I've thun. (He listens to the outside.)
Thinking about it we still have a good time. Now go inside and
make yourself ready, then we go to church. _Christine._ Who wanders
around up there? _Jean._ I do not know if it is not Klara.
_Christine_ (Goes). That can not be around even the count, who
came home, without him that someone has heard. _Jean_ (Timidly).
The Count? No, I do not think so, because then he would have
been rung.

_Christine._ Yes, God knows!

Never have I experienced such a thing! (From right). The sun has
risen and lighted outdoors gradually the treetops of the park,
the slip moves gradually deeper, until it diagonally into the
window hineinfällt. _Jean_ (Goes to Glasthür and makes one
character). _Julie_ (comes in a travel suit and with a small
bird farm, which is covered with a towel and presents it on a
chair). Now I'm ready. _Jean._ Still! Christine is awake!
_Julie_ (Extremely agitated during the following scene). They
knew something? _Jean._ She knows nothing! But, my God, how
do you like? _Julie._ How? How I look? _Jean._ You are pale
as a corpse, and - forgive, but you are dirty on the face.
_Julie._ So give me wash water! - So! (She goes to the sink and
wash the face and hands.) Give me a towel! Ah - the sun has
risen! _Jean._ And then flees the goblin magic.

_Julie._ Yes, tonight is really a goblin in Thätigkeit
been! But Jean, listen to me! Come with me, because now I have the
means. _Jean_ (Tentatively). Enough? _Julie._ Enough to
get started! Come with me, because I can not travel alone. Think
on locust days in a humid train, in a mass of people
hineingepfropft, a goggle, the stations wait, if you would like
to fly. No, I can not, I can not! And then come the memories, the
childhood memories of the days with the locust laubgeschmückten
Church - Birkenlaub and lilac, with a splendid dinner table,
the relatives and friends, and the afternoon in the park, dancing,
Music, flowers and games.

Oh, man escapes and flees, but in the baggage car, follow the
memories, the remorse and anguish after the conscience! _Jean._
I will accompany you! But then continued before it is too
late. Now on the spot! _Julie._ So get ready! (She takes the
bird farm.) _Jean._ But no luggage! Then we are lost. _Julie._
No, nothing! Only what you can bring into the coupe. _Jean_ (Has
taken a hat). What have you there? What is this? _Julie._ This
is just my little siskin! I do not want to leave! _Jean._ Huh?
Should we now also have a bird farm with you! They are purely
insane! Let the bird out! _Julie._ The only thing I take away
from home, the only living being that has pleased me since I became
unfaithful Diana! Do not be cruel! Let me take him! _Jean._ Let
him, I say - and you do not talk so loud. Christine can
hear us! _Julie._ No, I do not let him back in foreign hands!
Kill him then dear! _Jean._ To enter the little thing as her, I
will turn it's neck! _Julie._ Yes, but he does not thun woe! Not
- no, I can not! _Jean._ Her so, I can do it! _Julie_ (Takes
the bird from the farm and kissed him). O my Sennchen, thou by
thy own mistress dying? _Jean._ Be so good now and make no Scenes,
yes it is your life, your welfare! So, quick! (He pulls the bird
from her hand, it contributes to Hackblock and took the kitchen
knife.) _Julie_ (Turns off). _Jean._ They had slaughtered chicken
to learn, instead of the turret to shoot, (the skin to) then
you would not before a drop of blood will be powerless. _Julie_
(screams). Kill me too! Kill me! If you kill an innocent animal
can without having your hand trembles! O, I hate and abhor you.
Between us, the blood. I swear an hour since I saw thee, I
swear the hour, since I was born! _Jean._ Yes, what is it that you
swear! Let's go! _Julie_ (Approaching the Hackblock, almost against
their wills drawn). No, I do not want to go, I can not - I
must see - still! drives a car outside. (You listening, while
her eyes fixed on the Hackblock and stapled holds the knife.)
Do you think I can see no blood?

Do you think I'm so weak - o - I would like to see your blood and
your brain on the wood block.

I wish your whole sex in a lake, as there are swim. I think I could
drink your brain pan, I could my feet swim in your chest and
your heart to eat fried! You think I'm weak, you think I
love you, you think I want your brood under my heart and my
blood nourish - give birth to your child and take thy name!
Hear you how hot you are? I've never heard your last name - you
probably do not, I think. I wanted woman "Hofwächter," or "Madame
Feger sweepings" are - you dog, my necklace, thou servant of my
buttons on the coat of arms bears -- - I should share
with my cook, my maid rival. O! o! o! You believe that I was
a coward, and wanted to flee! No, now I stay - and then let the
storm looming! My father comes home - he finds his secretary
affixed, his money stolen! Then he rings - with the bell - twice
after the servants - and then he sends after Schulze - and then
I will tell everything. Everything! O it is beautiful, an end
to it - if it only wanted an end! - And then he gets the Schlagfluß
and dies. - - And then the whole story to an end - and it is a
quiet and peace! - Eternal peace!

- - And then the coat of arms on the shattered coffin - the Graf
sex are extinct - and the Dienersprößling grows up in an
orphanage - winning his laurels in the gutter and ends in a
prison! _Christine_ (Dressed for church, the hymn in hand, comes
from the right). _Julie_ (rushes towards her and falls into her
arms, as she wanted to protect her from looking). Help me Christine!
Help me against this man! _Christine_ (Immobile and cold). What
is this spectacle now for holiday mornings. (It looks like the
Hackblock.) Schmutzerei And what you have done here! - What does
this mean anything? And as you scream and skandalieren! _Julie._
Christine! You're a woman and my girlfriend! Beware of this
scoundrel! _Jean_ (A little shy and embarrassed). If the ladies
räsonnieren, I go out and shave me. (He sneaks across to the
right.) _Julie._ You will understand me, and thou shalt hear me!
_Christine._ No, I really do not see myself in such Wippchen!

Where do you want to travel in your suit there? - And he also
has his hat on? - What? What? _Julie._ Hear me, Christine;
hear me, then I will tell you everything. _Christine._ I want
to know nothing! _Julie._ You must hear me! _Christine._ What
then? Of the stupidities with Jean! Yes, you see, so I'm absolutely
not, because I do not mix into it. But do you think him to be
burning through bait, then we will have the road block! _Julie_
(Very excited). Try to be calm, Christine! and listen to me! I
can not stay here, and Jean can not stay here - so we have to
stay! _Christine._ Hm, hm! - _Julie_ (With sudden incursion).
But you see, now I get an idea - if we all traveled - abroad
- to Switzerland, and together built a hotel. I have money, (it
shows) you'll see - and Jean and I will preside over the whole
- and you, I had thought of me, take over the kitchen. Is not
that nice!

Say yes now and come with us, then everything is arranged.

Sage but yes! (They embrace Christine and knocking them tenderly.)
_Christine_ (Cold and thoughtful). Hm! Hm! _Julie_ (Faster). You're
never been outdoors and traveling, Christine - and thou shalt
be beyond yourself in the world. You can not believe how
entertaining it is, on the train ride - constantly new people -
new countries - and then we come to Hamburg and seen us on the
passage of the zoological garden - what do you think? And then we
go into the theater and hear the opera - and when we come to
Munich, because we have the museums, and there are Rubens and
Raphael - Pictures of the two great painters, weißt du hast
Du ja from Munich, where King Ludwig lived talk heard - the king,
you know, what was crazy - and then we will have seen his locks
- he has locks, just like in the fairy tales are set up - and
from there it is no longer far to Switzerland - with the Alps,
you - think the Alps, with snow to the middle of summer - and
then to grow oranges and laurel trees which are green all year
round - _Jean_ (appears from the right, his razor on a strap
Stressing that he with his teeth and his left hand firmly, he
happily listens to the conversation and nods here and there
Applause).

In
our run from Shrewsbury, their language first made itself
generally heard at Newport, and it increased in the unutterable
names of the stations westward, the farther we passed into their
beautiful country, but they had always English enough to be
civil, though never servile. The country is beautiful in the New
England measure, but it is of a softer and smaller beauty; it
looks more caressable; it is like Vermont rather than New
Hampshire, and it is more like New England than Old England in
the greater number of isolated farm-houses, from which the girls
as well as the boys come to the university colleges for learning
undreamt of by English farm villagers.

The air was fresh and sweet, and though it seemed to shower
wherever we stopped to let another train go by on a siding of our
single track, there was a very passable sense of summer sun. The
human type as we began to observe it and as we saw it afterward
throughout the land was not only diminutive, but rather plain and
mostly dark, in the men; as to the women they were, as they are
everywhere, charming, with now and then a face of extraordinary
loveliness, and nearly always the exquisite West of England
complexion. In their manners the people could not be more amiable
than the English, who are as amiable as possible, but they seemed
brighter and gayer. This remained their effect to the last in
Aberystwyth, and when one left the Terrace where the English
visitors superabounded, the Welsh had the whole place to
themselves. I would not push my conjecture, but it seemed to me
that there was an absence of the cloying loyalty which makes
sojourn in England afflictive to the republican spirit; I
remember but one shop dedicated to the King's Majesty, with the
royal arms over the door, though there may have been many others;
I am always warning the reader not to take me too literally.

Though I was about the streets by day and by dark, I saw no
disorderly behavior of any kind in the town away from the beach;
I do not mean there was any by the sea, unless some athletic
courtship among the young people of the watering-place element
was to be accounted so. There was not much fashion there, except
in a few pretty women who recalled the church parade of Hyde Park
in their flowery and feathery costumes. Back in the town there
was no fashion at all, but a general decency and comfort of
dress. The Welsh costume survives almost solely in the picture-
postal cards, though perhaps in the hilly fastnesses the women
still wear the steeple-crowned hats which we associate with the
notion of witches; when they come to market in Aberystwyth they
wear hard, shiny black straw hats like the men's. Amongst the
throng of Saturday-night shoppers I saw none of the drunkenness
that one sees so often in Scottish streets, and in English
cities, and, I grieve to say, even in some New England towns. In
the Welsh quarter Sunday was much more the Sabbath than it was on
the Terrace, where indeed it seemed a day of pleasure rather than
praise.


VII

All the week I had the best intention of hearing the singing in
some of the Welsh churches, but my goodwill could not carry the
day against the fear of a sermon which I should not understand. A
chance sermon would probably have touched upon the education act
which was then stirring all Dissenting England and Wales to
passive resistance, and from Lincolnshire to Carnarvonshire was
causing the distraint of tables and chairs, tools, hams, clocks,
clothing, poultry, and crops for the payment of such part of the
Dissenters' taxes as would go to the support of the Church
schools. Possibly it might also have referred to the Walk Out of
the Welsh Members of Parliament; this was an incident which I
heard mentioned as of imperial importance, though what caused it
or came of it I do not know.

Instead of going to church, I strolled up and down the Terrace
and observed the watering-place life. The town was evidently
full, or at least all the lodging-houses were, and as it is with
the English everywhere in their summer resorts, there were men
enough to go round, so that no poor dear need pine for a mate on
that pleasant beach. Aberystwyth is therefore to be commended to
our overflow of girls, though whether there are many eligible
noblemen among those youth I have not the statistics for saying.
All the visitors may have been people of rank; I only know that I
was told they were mostly from the midland cities, and they
seemed to be having the good time which people of brief outings
alone have. The bathing began, as I have noted, very early in the
day with the men in the briefest possible tights; the women, for
compensation, wore long trousers with their bathing-skirts, and
they enhanced the modesty of their effect by the universal use of
bathing-machines, pushed well away from the curious shore. There
was not much variety in the visiting English type, but there was
here and there a sharp imperial accent, as in the two pale
little, spindle-legged Anglo-Indian boys, with their Hindu ayah,
very dark, with sleek dark hair, and gleaming eyes in a head not
much bigger than a black walnut.

The crescent of the beach was a serried series of hotels and
lodging-houses, from tip to tip, but back of these were streets
of homelike, smallish dwellings, that broke rank farther away,
and scattered about in suburban villas, with trees and flowers
and grass around them. Beyond stretched, as well as it could
stretch among its hills, the charming country of fields, and
woods, and orchards.


VIII

I suppose I did not quite do my duty by the ruins of the Norman
castle, and I feel that it is now too late to repair my neglect.
The stronghold was more than once attempted by the Welsh in those
wars which make their history a catalogue of battles, but it held
out Norman till the Normans turned English. Owen Glendover took
it in 1402, when it was three hundred years old, though not yet
feeble with age, and in due time one of Cromwell's lieutenants
destroyed it. Some very picturesque fragments remain to attest
the grace and strength of the ancient hold. It is near the
University College and the Amusement Pier, so that the mere
sight-seers can do all the ordinary objects of interest at
Aberystwyth in half a day or half an hour. But we were none of
these. We had fallen in love with the place, and we would fain
have stayed on after the week was up for which we had taken our
lodging. It appeared from a house-to-house canvass, that there
was no other lodging to be had in all that long crescent of the
Terrace; or, if this is incredible, there was none we would have.
Our successors were impending; and though I think our English
landlady might have invented something for us at the last moment,
the Welsh Power was inexorable. Her ideal was lodgers who would
go out and buy their own provisions, and we had set our faces
against that. Some one must yield, and the Welsh Power could not;
it was not in her nature. We were therefore in a manner expelled
from Aberystwyth, but our banishment was not from all Wales, and
this was how we went next to Llandudno.


       *       *       *       *       *


LLANDUDNO, ANOTHER WELSH WATERING-PLACE


Froissart's saying, if it was Froissart's, that the English amuse
themselves sadly antedates that notion of Merry England which is
now generally rejected by serious observers. I should myself
prefer the agnostic position, and say that I did not know whether
the English were glad or not when they looked gay. What I seem to
be certain of, but I do not say that I am certain, is that they
look gayer in their places of amusement than we do. I do not mean
theatres, or parliaments, or music-halls, or lecture-rooms, by
places of amusement, but what we call summer resorts a little
more largely than those resorts which the English call watering-
places. Of these I should like to take as a type the charming
summer resort on the coast of North Wales which is called
Llandudno in print, and in speech several different ways.


I

The English simply and frankly, after their blunt nature, call
the place Landudno, but the Welsh call it, according to one
superstition of their double _l_ and their French _u_,
Thlandidno. According to another, we cannot spell it in English
at all; but it does not much matter, for the last superstition is
the ever-delightful but ever-doubtful George Borrow's, who says
that the Welsh _ll_ is the same as the Spanish _ll_,
but who is probably mistaken, most other authorities agreeing
that if you pronounce it _lhl_ you will come as near it as
any Saeseneg need. It is a constantly besetting question in
Wales, where the prefix _Llan_ speckles the map all over,
owing to that multitude of Saints who peopled the country in the
times when a Saint's sons were every one saints, and none was of
particularly holy, or even good life, because he was known for a
saint. Like a continental noble, he inherited his title equally
with all his brothers.

But through whatever orthoepic mazes you search it, Llandudno has
every claim on your regard and admiration. Like Aberystwyth, its
sea front is a shallow crescent, but vaster, with a larger town
expanding back of it, and with loftier and sublimer headlands, at
either end, closing it in a more symmetrical frame. But I should
say that its sea was not so blue, or its sky either, and its air
was not so soft or dry. Morally it is more constantly lively,
with a greater and more insistent variety of entertainments. For
the American its appeal might well have begun with the sight of
his country's flag floating over a tennis-ground at the
neighboring watering-place and purer Welsh town of Rhyl. The
approach to his affections was confirmed by another American flag
displayed before one of the chief hotels in Llandudno itself. I
learned afterward of the landlord that this was because there
were several Chicago families in his house, and fifteen Americans
in all; but why the tennis-ground of Rhyl flew our national
banner, I do not know to this day. It was indeed that gentle
moment when our innocent people believed themselves peculiarly
dear to the English, and might naturally suppose, if from
Chicago, or Boston, or Denver, that the English would wish to see
as often as possible the symbol of our successful revolt from the
princes and principles to which they have religiously adhered.

[Illustration: LLANDUDNO--THE CITY AND HARBOR]

Both that home of the patriotic Chicago families, and the other
best hotel were too full for us, and after a round of the second-
best we decided for lodgings, hoping as usual that they would
bring us nearer the native life. The best we could get, facing
the sea midway of the crescent, were not exactly Welsh in their
keeping. The landladies were, in fact, two elderly Church-of-
England sisters from Dublin, who had named their house out of a
novel they had read. They said they believed the name was
Italian, and the reader shall judge if it were so from its
analogue of Osier Wood. The maids in the house, however, were
very truly and very wickedly Welsh: two tough little ponies of
girls, who tied their hair up with shoe-strings, and were
forbidden, when about their work, to talk Welsh together, lest
they should speak lezing of those Irish ladies. The rogues were
half English, but the gentle creature who served our table was
wholly Welsh; small, sweet-voiced, dark-eyed, intelligent, who
suffered from the universal rheumatism of the British Isles, but
kept steadily to her duty, and accepted her fate with patience
and even cheerfulness. She waited on several other tables, for
the house was full of lodgers, all rather less permanent than
ourselves, who were there for a fortnight; we found our
landladies hoping, when we said we were going, to have had us
with them through the winter.


II

Our fellow-lodgers were quiet people of divers degrees, except
perhaps the highest, unless the nobility bring boiled hams with
them when they visit the seaside. The boiled ham of the drawing-
room floor was frankly set out on the hall table, where it seemed
to last a week, or at least till the lodgers went away. There was
much coming and going, for it was the height of the season, with
the prices at flood tide. We paid six guineas a week for three
bedrooms and a sitting-room; but our landladies owned it was
dear. An infirm and superannuated sideboard served for a
dressing-table in one room; in others the heavier pieces of
furniture stood sometimes on four legs, sometimes on three. We
had the advantage of two cats on the back fence, and a dog in the
back yard; but if the controversy between them was carried on in
Welsh, it is no wonder we never knew what it was about.

Our hostesses said the Welsh were dirty housekeepers: "At least
_we_ think so," but I am bound to say their own cooking was
very good; and not being Welsh our hostesses consented to market
for us, except in the article of Spanish melons: these I bought
myself of increasing cost and size. When I alleged, the second
morning, that the melon then sold me for sixpence had been sold
me by another boy for fourpence the day before, my actual Cymric
youth said, "Then he asked you too little," which seemed a _non
sequitur_ but was really an unexpected stroke of logic.

It was the utmost severity used with me by my co-racials in
Llandudno. They were in the great majority of the permanent
inhabitants, but they were easily outnumbered among the
pleasurers by the Saeseneg, whose language prevailed, so that a
chance word of Welsh now and then was all that I heard in the
streets. Some faint stirrings of ambition to follow the language
as far as a phrase-book would lead were not encouraged by the
kindly bookseller who took my money for it; and I did not go on.
It is a loss for me in literature which translation cannot
supply, for the English lovers of Welsh poetry, after praising it
to the skies, are never able to produce anything which is not
direly mechanical and vacuous. The native charm somehow escapes
them; the grace beyond the reach of art remains with the Cymric
poets who have resources for its capture unknown to their English
admirers. George Borrow seems the worst failure in this sort, and
the worst offender in giving his reader the hopes he never
fulfils, so that his _Wild Wales_ is a desert of blighted
literary promises. I believe that the merit of Welsh poetry
dwells largely, perhaps overlargely, in its intricate technique,
and in the euphonic changes which leave the spoken word ready for
singing almost without the offices of the composer.


III

One of the great musical contests, the yearly national
Eisteddfod, was taking place that year at the neighboring town of
Rhyl, but I did not go to hear it, not being good for a week's
music without intermission. At Llandudno there was only the music
of the Pierrots and the Niggers, which those simple-hearted
English have borrowed, the one from France and the other from
these States. Their passion for our colored minstrelsy is, in
fact, something pathetic. They like Pierrots well enough, and
Pierrots _are_ amusing, there is no doubt of it; but they
dote upon Niggers, as they call them with a brutality unknown
among us except to the vulgarest white men and boys, and the
negroes themselves in moments of exasperation. Negro minstrelsy
is almost extinct in the land of its birth, but in the land of
its adoption it flourishes in the vigor of undying youth: no
watering-place is genuine without it. Bands of Niggers haunt the
streets and suburbs of London, and apparently every high day or
holiday throughout the British Islands requires the stamp of
their presence as a nostrum requires the name of the patentee
blown in the bottle. The decay of their gay science began among
us with the fall of slavery, and the passing of the old
plantation life; but as these never existed in Great Britain the
English version of negro minstrelsy is not affected by their
disappearance. It is like the English tradition of the Red Skins,
which has all but vanished from our superstition, but remains as
powerful as ever in the constant fancy of those islanders.

The English like their Niggers very, very black, and as their
Niggers are English they know how to gratify the national
preference: such a spread of scarlet lips over half the shining
sable face is known nowhere else in nature or art; and it must
have been in despair of rivalling their fellow-minstrels that the
small American troupe we saw at Aberystwyth went to the opposite
extreme and frankly appeared as the White Neegurs. At Llandudno
the blackness of the Niggers was absolute, so that it almost
darkened the day as they passed our lodging, along the crescent
of the beach on their way to their open-air theatre beyond it.
They were followed by a joyous retinue of boys and girls,
tradesmen's apprentices, donkeys, bath-chairs, and all the
movable gladness of the watering-place, to the music of their
banjos and the sound of their singing. They were going to a fold
of the foot-hills called the Happy Valley, bestowed on the public
for such pleasures by the local nobleman whose title is given to
a principal street, and to other points and places, I suppose out
of the public pride and gratitude. It is a charming amphitheatre
overlooked by the lofty tops around, and there on the green slope
the Niggers had set up their stage, and ranged the spectators'
chairs in the classification of first, second, and third so dear
to the British soul. There they cracked their jokes, and there
they sang their songs; the songs were newer than the jokes, but
they were both kinds delivered with a strong Cockney accent, and
without an aspirate in its place. But it was all richly
acceptable to the audience, who laughed and cheered and joined in
the chorus when asked. Here, as everywhere, the crowd delighted
equally in songs of the sloppiest sentimentality and of humor
nighest indecency.

[Illustration: LLANDUDNO FROM GREAT ORME'S NECK]

On the afternoon of our visit the good lady next me could not
contain her peculiar pride in the entertainment, and confided
that she knew the leader of the troupe, who was an old friend of
her husband's. It was indeed a time and place that invited to
expansion. Nothing could have been friendlier and livelier than
the spectacle of the spectators spread over the grassy slope, or
sublimer than the rise of the hills around, or more enchanting
than the summer sea, with the large and little shipping on it,
and the passenger-steamers going and coming from Liverpool and
all the points in the region round. The two headlands which mark
the limits of the beautiful beach, Great Orme's Head, and Little
Orme's Head, are both of a nobleness tempered to kindliness by
the soft and manageable beauty of their forms. I never got quite
so far as Little Orme's Head, for it was full two miles from our
lodging, and a fortnight was not long enough for the journey, but
with Great Orme's Head I was on terms of very tolerable intimacy.
A road of the excellence peculiar to England passes round on the
chin, so to speak, and though I never went the length of it, I
went far enough to know the majesty of the seaward prospect. From
the crown of the Head there is a view of perhaps all the
mountains in Wales, which from this point appears entirely
composed of mountains, blue, blue and enchantingly fair. On the
townward side you may descend into the Happy Valley, as we did,
and find always a joyous crowd listening to the Niggers. If,
after some doubt of your way, you have the favor of a nice boy
and an intelligent collie dog, whom the boy is helping herd home
the evening cows of a pleasant farm, you will have a charming
glimpse of the local civilization; and perhaps you will notice
that the cows do not pay much attention to the boy, but obey the
dog implicitly; it is their Old World convention.


IV

From another side we had ascended the mountain by the tram line
which climbs it to the top, and at every twist and turn lavishes
some fresh loveliness of landscape upon your vision. Near by, we
noticed many depressions and sinkages in the ground, and a
conversable man in well-oiled overalls who joined us at a power-
house, said it was from the giving way of the timbers in the
disused copper-mines. Were they very old, we asked, and he said
they had not been worked for forty years; but this, when you come
to think of the abandoned Roman mines yet deeper in the hill, was
a thing of yesterday. The man in the oily overalls had evidently
not come to think of it, but he was otherwise a very intelligent
mechanic, and of a hospitable mind, like all the rest of our
chance acquaintance in Great Britain. I do not know that I like
to think of those Roman mines myself, where it is said the sea
now surges back and forth: they must have been worked by British
slaves, who may be fancied climbing purblindly out when the
legions left Britain, and not joining very loudly in the general
lamentation at their withdrawal, but probably tempering the
popular grief with the reflection that the heathen Saxons could
not be much worse.

The hill-top was covered with the trippers who seem perpetually
holidaying on their island, and who were always kind to their
children when they had them, and to each other when they had not.
They were commonly in couples, very affectionate and
inoffensively young. They wandered about, and from time to time
went and had tea at one of the tea-houses which are always at
hand over there. Except the view there was not much to see; the
ways were rough; now and then you came to a pink cottage or a
white one where the peasantry, again, sold tea. At one place in
our walk over the occiput of Great Orme's Head into the Happy
Valley in its bosom, we fell a prey to a conspiracy of boys
selling mignonette: it appeared to be a mignonette trust, or
syndicate, confining its commerce to that flower.

I have no other statistics to offer concerning business on Great
Orme's Head, or indeed in all Llandudno. One of the chief
industries seemed to be coaching, for a score of delightful
places are to be easily reached by the stages always departing
from the hotels on the Parade. There was no particularly
noticeable traffic in leek, though I suppose that as I did not
see the national emblem in any Welshman's hat--to be sure, it was
not St. David's Day--it must have been boiling in every
Welshman's pot. I am rather ashamed to be joining, even at this
remove, in the poor English joking which goes on about the Welsh,
quite as much as about the Scotch, the Irish having become too
grave a matter for joking. There are little burlesque manuals
making merry with the language and its agglutinative prolixity,
which I shall certainly not quote; and there are postal-cards
representing Welsh dames drinking tea in tall witch-hats, with
one of them saying: "I wass enjoying myself shocking, look you."
There was, of course, nothing serious in this joking; the Welsh,
who have all the small commerce in their hands, gladly sold the
manuals and postals, and I did not see one Englishman laughing
over them.

The Saeseneg visitors rather amused themselves with the sea and
the resources of the beach and the bathing. As contrasted with
the visitors at Aberystwyth, so distinctly in the earlier and
later stages of love-making, I should say those at Llandudno were
domestic: fathers and mothers who used the long phalanx of
bathing-machines appointed to their different sexes, and their
children who played in the sand. I thought the children charming,
and I contributed tuppence to aid in the repair of the sand
castle of two nice little boys which had fallen down; it now
seems strange that I should have been asked for a subscription,
but in England subscriptions spare nobody; though I wonder if two
such nice little boys would have come to me for money in America.
Besides the entertainment of lying all afternoon on the beach, or
sitting beside it in canopied penny chairs, there was more active
diversion for all ages and sexes in the circus prevailing
somewhere in the background, and advertising itself every
afternoon by a procession of six young elephants neatly carrying
each in his trunk the tail of the elephant before him. There were
also the delightful shows of the amusement pier where one could
go and see Pierrots to one's heart's content, if one can ever get
enough of Pierrots; I never can.

[Illustration: THE GREAT PIER, LLANDUDNO]

Besides all these daytime things there were two very good
theatres, at one of which I saw Mr. Barrie's _Little Mary_
given better than in New York (that was easy), and at the other a
comic opera, with a bit of comedy or tragedy in a stage-box, not
announced in the bills. The audience was otherwise decorous
enough to be composed of Welsh Baptist elders and their visiting
friends, but in this box there were two young men in evening
dress, scuffling with a young woman in dinner décolletée, and
what appeared to be diamonds in her ears. They were trying, after
what seems the convention of English seaside flirtation, to get
something out of her hand, and allowing her successfully to
resist them; and their playful contest went on through a whole
act to the distraction of the spectators, who did not seem
greatly scandalized. It suggested the misgiving that perhaps bad
people came to Llandudno for their summer outing as well as good;
but there was no interference by the police or the management
with this robust side-show. Were the actors in the scene, all or
any of them, too high in rank to be lightly molested in their
lively event; or were they too low? Perhaps they were merely
tipsy, but all the same their interlude was a contribution to the
evening's entertainment which would not have been so placidly
accepted in, say, Atlantic City, or Coney Island, or even
Newport, where people are said to be more accustomed to the
caprices of society persons, and more indulgent of their whims.


V

A more improving, and on the whole more pleasing, phase of the
indigenous life, and also more like a phase of our own, showed
itself the day of our visit to Conway, a little way from
Llandudno. There, on our offering to see the ruins of the
wonderful and beautiful old castle, we were met at the entrance
with a demand for an exceptional shilling gate money, because of
the fair for the local Wesleyan Chapel which was holding in the
interior. What seemed at first a hardship turned out a chance
which we would not have missed on any account. There was a large
tent set up in the old castle court, and a table spread with
home-made dainties of many sorts, and waited upon by gentle maids
and matrons who served one with tea or whatever else one liked,
all for that generously inclusive shilling. They were Welsh, they
told us, and they were speaking their language to right and left
of us, while they were so courteous to us in English. Then I
closed the lid, druselte that finally fell asleep and woke
up really sick. But I died but not how you see. What I wanted
to - I do not know! You win, no way was there - but they were
for me a proof of how hopeless it was for me, from among
emporzukommen where I was born.

_Julie._ Tell you charming, you know! Are you in school? _Jean._
A little, but I have a lot of novels and I read a lot in the theater
was. I also hear people talk fine, and from them I learned the
most. _Julie._ Because you listen to what we say? _Jean._ Yes,
certainly! And I've heard a lot when I buck on the coachman
sat or have rowed the boat. Once I heard Miss Julie and a friend
- _Julie._ So? What you heard that? _Jean._ Yes, now I can
not say so, but I was a little surprised and did not understand
how you all ', the words learned. Perhaps this is in fact not
such a big difference between people and people like you who
believe! _Julie._ Oh, shame on you! We live not, like you, if we
have loved. _Jean_ (Fixed it). Is it safe? Yes, my need is
the lady not to be so innocent - _Julie._ It was a scoundrel, whom
I gave my love. _Jean._ The girls always say - behind. _Julie._
Always? _Jean._ I always think because I have repeatedly been
expressed earlier in such cases heard. _Julie._ What cases? _Jean._
As just mentioned. The last time - _Julie._ Still, I want to hear
nothing more - The _Jean._ wanted _sie_ not - it is strange.
Well, then I would go to bed to be.

_Julie_ (Spicy). In the Midsummer Night sleep. _Jean._ Yes!
with the pack out there to dance, which amused me, not really.
_Julie._ Take the keys to the boat and row me to the lake, and
I want to see the sunrise. _Jean._ Is that reasonable?
_Julie._ It has seems as if you were worried for your reputation!
_Jean._ Why not? I would not like to be ridiculous, I would not
like to be away without a recommendation, if I want to establish.
And it seems to me I have some obligations against Christine.
_Julie._ So yes, now it's Christine again - _Jean._ Yes, but
also for them. Listen to my advice and go up and put you
to bed. _Julie._ Should I obey you around? _Jean._ This one time,
to your own sake! I beg you! It's late at night, sleep is
drunk, and the head is hot! Go to sleep! BTW - if I hear right
- the people here come to me looking for! And you can find us here,
then you are lost! _Chor_ (Which is heard from far and near). You
like me from the mass, the beautiful Fräuelein, I can not refrain,
I must be their servant, because she enjoys my heart !
Tiritidi - Ralla, Tiritidi - ra! And now I managed to What I've
getracht. All 'are verdrungen Free, Have they brought Lieb, The
beautiful Fräuelein Tiritidi - Ralla - la - la! _Julie._ I know
our people and I love it, just like they love me. Only let her
come, then you will see!

_Jean._ No, Miss Julie, the people you love not.

You eat your bread, but they mock you behind. Believe me! Listen,
you hear only what they sing! - Or no, you do not hear that!
_Julie_ (Listening). What they sing? _Jean._ It is a satirical
poem! From you and me _Julie._ Horrible! O shame! And so deceitful
- _Jean._ The Pack is always FEIG! And in _dem_ battle you
can not thun than flee! _Julie._ Flee? But where? We can not.
And Christine go, we can not! _Jean._ So, because in my room
inside! Not, no bid, and you can trust me because I am your true,
honest and reverently friend! _Julie._ But remember! - If you are
looking there now? _Jean._ I verriegle the door, and wants to
break into it, so shoot me! - Come! (Knieend.) Come! _Julie_
(Significant). Promise me - _Jean._ I swear! _Julie_ (Hurriedly
left). _Jean_ (Follows her excitement). Stumme Scene.

     _Brautleute_ In holiday clothes,
      with flowers on the hats, a _Violinspieler_ at the top, come through
the Glasthüre.

A barrel Dünnbier and a keg of brandy, with foliage umwunden are
right on the table laid; take glasses out.

Then drink. Then a ring is formed and the dance game sung and
danced. Hereafter pull them back by singing from Glasthür.
_Julie_ (Coming from the left alone, sees the mess in the kitchen
and the hands together, then take a powder puff and powdered
her face).
[Illustration: CONWAY CASTLE]

It is said that the purple year is not purpler at any point on
the southernmost shores of England than it is at Llandudno. In
proof of the mildness of its winter climate, the presence of many
sorts of tender evergreens is alleged, and the persistence of
flowers in blooming from Christmas to Easter. But those who have
known the deceitful habits of flowers on the Riviera, where they
bloom in any but an arctic degree of cold, will not perhaps hurry
to Llandudno much later than November. All the way to Penmaenmawr
the flowers showed us what they could do in summer, whether in
field or garden, and there was one beautiful hill on which
immense sweeps and slopes of yellow gorse and purple heather
boldly stretched separately, or mingled their dyes in the
fearlessness of nature when she spurns the canons of art. I
suppose there is no upholsterer or paperhanger who would advise
mixing or matching yellow and purple in the decoration of a room,
but here the outdoor effect rapt the eye in a transport of
delight. It was indeed a day when almost any arrangement of
colors would have pleased.


VII

It is not easy in that much summer-resorted region to get at the
country in other than its wilder moods; it is either town or
mountain; but now and then one found one's self among harvest-
fields, where the yield of wheat and oats was far heavier than
with us, either because the soil was richer or the tilth
thorougher. The farms indeed looked very fertile, and the
farmhouses very alluringly clean and neat, at least on the
outside. They were not gray, as in the West of England, or brick
as in the Southeast, but were of stone whitewashed, and the roofs
were of slate, and not thatch or tile. As I have noted, they were
not so much gathered into villages as in England, and again, as I
have noted, it is out of such houses that the farmers' boys and
girls go to the co-educational colleges of the Welsh University.
It is still the preference of the farmers that their sons should
be educated for the ministry, which in that country of multiplied
dissents has pulpits for every color of contrary-mindedness, as
well as livings of the not yet disestablished English Church. It
is not indeed the English Church in speech. The Welsh will have
their service and their sermon in their own tongue, and when an
Oxford or Cambridge man is given a Welsh living, he must do what
he can to conform to the popular demand. It is said that in one
case, where the incumbent long held out against the parish, he
compromised by reading the service in Welsh with the English
pronunciation. But the Welsh churches are now supplied with
Welsh-speaking clergy, though whether it is well for the Welsh to
cling so strongly to their ancient speech is doubted by many
Welshmen. These hold that it cramps and dwarfs the national
genius; but in the mean time in Ireland the national genius, long
enlarged to our universal English, offers the strange spectacle
of an endeavor to climb back into its Gaelic shell.

[Illustration: PLAS MAWR]

I do not know whether an incident of my experience in coming from
Chester to Llandudno is to be offered as an illustration of Welsh
manners or of English manners. A woman of the middle rank,
certainly below gentlewoman, but very personable and well
dressed, got into our carriage where there was no seat for her.
She was no longer young, but she was not so old as the American
who offered her his seat. She refused it, but consented to sit on
the hand-bag and rug which he arranged for her, and so remained
till she left the train, while a half-grown boy and several young
men kept their countenances and their places, not apparently
dreaming of offering her a seat, or if they thought of her at
all, thought she was well punished for letting the guard crowd
her in upon us. By her stature and complexion she was undoubtedly
Welsh, and these youth from theirs were as undoubtedly English.
Perhaps, then, the incident had better be offered as an
illustration of Welsh and English manners combined.


       *       *       *       *       *


GLIMPSES OF ENGLISH CHARACTER


Nothing is so individual in any man as the peculiar blend of
characteristics which he has inherited from his racial
ancestries. The Englishman, who leaves the stamp of the most
distinct personality upon others, is the most mixed, the most
various, the most relative of all men. He is not English except
as he is Welsh, Dutch, and Norman, with "a little Latin and less
Greek" from his earliest visitors and invaders. This conception
of him will indefinitely simplify the study of his nature if it
is made in the spirit of the frank superficiality which I propose
to myself. After the most careful scrutiny which I shall be able
to give him, he will remain, for every future American, the
contradiction, the anomaly, the mystery which I expect to leave
him.


I

No error of the Englishman's latest invader is commoner than the
notion, which perhaps soonest suggests itself, that he is a sort
of American, tardily arriving at our kind of consciousness, with
the disadvantages of an alien environment, after apparently
hopeless arrest in unfriendly conditions. The reverse may much
more easily be true; we may be a sort of Englishmen, and the
Englishman, if he comes to us and abides with us, may become a
sort of American. But that is the affair of a possible future,
and the actual Englishman is certainly not yet any sort of
American, unless, indeed, for good and for bad, he is a better
sort of Bostonian. He does not even speak the American language,
whatever outlandish accent he uses in speaking his own. It may be
said, rather too largely, too loosely, that the more cultivated
he is, the more he will speak like a cultivated American, until
you come to the King, or the Royal Family, with whom a strong
German accent is reported to prevail. The Englishman may write
American, if he is a very good writer, but in no case does he
spell American. He prefers, as far as he remembers it, the Norman
spelling, and, the Conqueror having said "_geôle_," the
Conquered print "gaol," which the American invader must pronounce
"jail," not "gayol."

The mere mention of the Royal Family advances us to the most
marked of all the superficial English characteristics; or,
perhaps, loyalty is not superficial, but is truly of the blood
and bone, and not reasoned principle, but a passion induced by
the general volition. Whatever it is, it is one of the most
explicitly as well as the most tacitly pervasive of the English
idiosyncrasies. A few years ago--say, fifteen or twenty--it was
scarcely known in its present form. It was not known at all with
many in the time of the latest and worst of the Georges, or the
time of the happy-go-lucky sailor William; in the earlier time of
Victoria, it was a chivalrous devotion among the classes, and
with the masses an affection which almost no other sovereign has
inspired. I should not be going farther than some Englishmen if I
said that her personal character saved the monarchy; when she
died there was not a vestige of the republican dream which had
remained from a sentiment for "the free peoples of antiquity"
rather than from the Commonwealth. Democracy had indeed effected
itself in a wide-spread socialism, but the kingship was safe in
the hearts of the Queen's subjects when the Prince of Wales, who
was the first of them, went about praising loyalty as prime among
the civic virtues and duties. The notion took the general fancy,
and met with an acceptance in which the old superstition of kings
by divine right was resuscitated with the vulgar. One of the
vulgar lately said to an American woman who owned that we did not
yield an equal personal fealty to all our Presidents, "Oh yes,
but you know that it is only your _people_ that choose the
President, but _God_ gave us the King." Nothing could be
opposed to a belief so simple, as in the churches of the eldest
faith the humble worshipper could not well be told that the
picture or the statue of his adoration was not itself sacred. In
fact, it is not going too far, at least for a very adventurous
spirit, to say that loyalty with the English is a sort of
religious principle. What is with us more or less a joke,
sometimes bad, sometimes good, namely, our allegiance to the
powers that be in the person of the Chief Magistrate, is with
them a most serious thing, at which no man may smile without
loss.

I was so far from wishing myself to smile at it, that I darkled
most respectfully about it, without the courage to inquire
directly into the mystery. If it was often on my tongue to ask,
"What is loyalty? How did you come by it? Why are you loyal?"--I
felt that it would be embarrassing when it would not be
offensive, and I should vainly plead in excuse that this property
of theirs mystified me the more because it seemed absolutely left
out of the American nature. I perceived that in the English it
was not less really present because it was mixed, or used to be
mixed, with scandal that the alien can do no more than hint at.
That sort of abuse has long ceased, and if one were now to
censure the King, or any of the Royal Family, it would be felt to
be rather ill bred, and quite unfair, since royalty is in no
position to reply to criticism. Even the Socialists would think
it ill-mannered, though in their hearts, if not in their sleeves,
they must all the while be smiling at the notion of anything
sacred in the Sovereign.

[Illustration: A PRESENTATION AT COURT]


II

Loyalty, like so many other things in England, is a convention to
which the alien will tacitly conform in the measure of his good
taste or his good sense. It is not his affair, and in the mean
time it is a most curious and interesting spectacle; but it is
not more remarkable, perhaps, than the perfect acquiescence in
the aristocratic forms of society which hedge the King with their
divinity. So I am not unilaterally physiological processes, even
monomaniacal psychologically, I have to blame not only the
inheritance of the mother or only the "immorality" burden, nor
merely preached morality. This diversity of motives do I want to
boast, as it coincided with the exposure time match! And
others have already done so before me, so I boast with my paradoxes,
like all discoveries are called, not to stand alone. As far as
the character drawing is concerned, I have the characters pretty
"unprincipled" and presented the following reasons: The word
character in the course of time a multiple significance. It
probably meant originally the dominant feature in the complex soul
with the temperament and was confused. Then it was the expression
of the middle class for the machine, so that an individual, which
once and for all in his nature has stopped or is a certain role
in life has adapted, which is a word that is said, has ceased
to grow, a character called , and the evolution of being,
skillful sailors on the currents of life that can not be fixed pod
race, but the boat before the wind can fall to him again afterwards
aufzuluven was called unprincipled. In the degrading sense of
course because it is so difficult to catch and control einzuregistrieren
was. The bourgeois concept of the immutability of the soul was
then transferred to the theater, where yes, the Civic has
always prevailed. A character was a gentleman there who was ready,
which is immutable as drunk as a joker, when afflicted occurred,
and to characterize it took only the body infirmity anzudichten
a clubfoot, a wooden leg, a red nose, or that the person concerned
a use exclamation was like this: "that was gallant," "Barkis
will gladly" or the like. In this way, the people are so one-sided
format, remains the great Molière even stand. Harpagon is stingy,
although Harpagon would hoard and an excellent financier, a
superb father, a good citizen might be, and what is worse, his
infirmity is just extremely beneficial for his daughter and his
son, which inherit from him and he is not blameworthy only if they
also have to wait a bit until they get. Therefore I do not believe
in simple theatrical characters. And against the
summary verdict the author about the people: that is stupid,
which is brutal, he is jealous, he is greedy and so should the
opposition naturalists, who know how rich the soul is complex,
and which understand that the Laster has one back, which very
much resembles the virtuous. As modern characters, in a
transitional period, live with more hurry than hysterically at
least the previous one, I have my characters floating, torn,
old and new composite stories, and it seems not unlikely that
modern ideas through newspapers and conversations in the social
strata hinabgedrungen may occur in which even a servant moves.
My souls (characters) are conglomerates of past levels of culture
and chunks of future time, which consists of books and newspapers
borrowed were pieces of people, torn shreds of holiday clothes,
rags to what have become, like the soul is zusammengeflickt.

And I also have a little history given by the weaker, I steal and
words can be repeated by the strongest, the souls of "ideas,"
suggestions, as it is called, can pick apart.

Miss Julie is a modern character, not as if it the Halbweib the
Männerhasserin, not at all times should have given, but
because it is now discovered, has stepped forward and made noise.
The Halbweib is a type, which is hervordrängt, now for power,
personable, awards and diplomas, as well as previously sold for
money and the degeneracy implies. It is not a good way, because
it is not viable, but unfortunately, planted with all its misery,
a link to continue, and degenerate men seem unconsciously to
choose among them to meet, so they multiply and produce sex
undetermined nature, which the Life is a pain, but fortunately
for basically go either in disharmony with reality, or as a
result of the unstoppable gush Triebes oppressed, cheated, or the
hopes of the man not to obtain. The type is tragic, since it is
the actors desperate struggle against nature darbietet, tragic
as a romantic heritage, which is now scattered by the naturalism,
which only wants the happiness, and fortunes are a strong and
viable species. But Miss Julie is also a remnant of the old warrior
aristocracy, which is now before the new nerves or large brain-Adel
goes down, a victim of the disharmony which the mother "guilt"
in a family hineinbringt, a victim of the aberrations of the time,
the circumstances and their own feeble constitution what everything
means, as the fate of earlier periods, or the world. The guilt,
the Naturalist ausgestrichen together with God, but the consequences
of That, the penalty, or liability, fear of being can not be
deleted, for the simple reason, because they remain as to
whether he now freispricht or not, because the people who wronged,
are not so favorably voted as those who do not happen, it can be
cheap.

Even if the father compelling reasons to waive the penalty
should be the daughter they themselves must perform as it does
here, as a result of congenital or acquired honor, which
the higher classes inherit - from where? From the barbarity of
the Asian origin of the chivalry of the Middle Ages? - And which
is very nice, but now unvorteilheit for the existence of the Art
It is the nobleman "Harakiri" conscience of the Japanese law,
which he commanded the bodyguard aufzuschlitzen when another
abused him, which in modified form in the duel, the
Adelsprivilegium, lives on. Therefore, the Jean Serves alive, but
Miss Julie can not live without honor. That is the preference
of the servant before the Lord that he is free from this
fatal prejudice concerning the honor, and ancient Aryans in us
there is something of Don Quixote, or gentleman, which means that
we sympathize with the suicide, which is a dishonorable act
committed and so has lost his honor, and we have enough nobles,
in order to feel pain when we see lying dead size, even if the
levy could be killed, and search through honorable actions done.

The servant Jean is a speciation, one in which the differentiation
observed.

He is a son Kätners and has now become a Mr trained. He has
become easy to learn, because he had finely developed senses
(smell, taste, face) and sense of beauty. He has already
emporgeschwungen and is strong enough, it is not amiss to take
from the services of other people to draw benefits. He is
already foreign to its surroundings, which he despised as a
past stage, yet fears and flees, because they know his secrets,
his intentions ausspüren fully envy his climbing pleasure to see
and expect his case. Hence his ambiguous, indecisive character,
between sympathy for what is at the height, and hatred against
those who are now top, back and forth herschwankt. He is, as
he himself says, aristocrat, the secrets of the good society
learned is handily in consultation, but sometimes crude, is already
with elegance About the Rock, but to offer a guarantee that it
purely on the body. It has respect for the lady, but fear of
Christine, because she knows its dangerous secrets, he is
insensitive enough, not the events of the night disturbing in
its future plans to intervene. The savagery of the servant and
the lack of softheartedness ruler of the blood he can see without
too pale, a mishap on his back and take it out of the way
sling, he also comes from the unspoilt battle ends, and probably
a hotel landlord, and if not _er_ Romanian Count, it is probably
his son, student, and possibly Kronvogt. It is quite important
clarification, which he considers the life of the lower classes
giebt, namely when he speaks the truth, which is not often the
case, because he speaks more to his advantage than what is true.

If Miss Julie raises the presumption that all the lower classes,
the pressure from above so difficult, just as true of course,
Jean, since it is his intention is to win their sympathy, but he
immediately corrected his statement, if it considers it advantageous
holds out from the crowd to another. In addition, that
Jean is a rising, it is also about the lady that he is a man.
Sexual aristocrat, he is by his masculine strength, its fine-developed
senses and his ability to initiative. His inferiority is first
in the random social milieu in which he lives, and what he is
likely to Bedientenrock can store. The servant spirit expresses
itself in its deepest respect for the Count (the boots) and
his religious superstition, but he respects the counts primarily
as the holder of the senior center, after which he aspires,
and that respect remains even back when the daughter of House has
captured and seen how empty the dish was lovely. The fact that
a love affair in "higher" meaning between the two souls of so
unequal salary could arise, I do not believe and that's why I leave
Miss Julien's love of herself as an excuse or defense invent , and
Jean let me suggest that his love still under other circumstances
would sociales hervorwachsen.

I think it is with love as with the well-Hyacinthe, which root in
the dark should propose, before making a final push may bloom.

Here they shoot up and continues to blossom, and that erstirbt
the plant so quickly. Christine is finally a female servant,
full of monotony and dependency, which it acquired on fire,
vollgepropft with morality and religion as a cloak and a scapegoat.
She goes to church, to easily and quickly their house robberies
on Jesus and to pick up a new load of sin forgiveness einzunehmen.
Incidentally, it is a minor and that person intentionally
only sketched, as I have with the priest and doctor in the
"father" have done since I have just as everyday people wanted
to have, such as agriculture minister and provincial doctors
usually to be maintain. And that my minor characters seem a bit
abstract, based on the fact that the everyday people in a certain
sense in the abstract pursuit of their profession, which means
people are when they show the performance of their profession
only one side, and as long as the audience feels no need of it
several pages to see my abstract depiction is fairly accurate.
Finally, as regards the dialogue is concerned, I have with
the tradition there is a little broken, as my people not to have
made catechists who sit and stupid questions for a prompt reply
cause. I have the symmetric, the Mathematical constructed in the
French dialogue and avoid the brains to work freely as they did
in reality thun, in a conversation where the topic is not completely
exhausted, but the brain of the other almost at random receives a
Radzahn in which it can intervene.

And that is why the dialogue also undulates back and forth,
provides in the first Scenes with a material which is later
processed, resume, repeated, developed and wiederaufgelegt is
equal to the theme in a musical composition. The plot is
rich enough, and because they actually only two people, I have
limited myself to them, and only a minor person who cook,
and the unfortunate spirit of the Father above and behind
the whole can float. This latter, I have done, because I
believed had to be noted that for people in the recent times
the psychological development is what they are most interested
in, and our inquisitive souls are not simply something before
going to see, to learn without as it is approaching! We just want
the threads, see the machinery, the double box investigate the
magic ring in hand, in order to find the groove in the cards
look to discover what kind of character they have. What in the
Technical composition is concerned, I have deleted the Akteinteilung
because I've noticed that our lack of ability to provide us an
illusion of control to leave, possibly through intermediate file
is created in which the audience gets time to reflect and is
the suggestive influence of the author Magnetiseurs to escape.
My drama probably lasts six quarters hours, and if you have a
lecture, a sermon or a Congress hearing just as long and
longer listen, so I thought that a play during an hour and a
half would not tire. The monologue of ours is untrue as
realists banished but if I motivate him, I do it probably and
it can then use with advantage. It is likely that a speaker
alone in his room on and off and, according to his speech
through, likely that an actor as his role memoriert that
a girl chat with his cat, a mother with her child frolics,
an old lady with her talking parrot, a final sleep in sleep
talking. And at once the actor the opportunity to work
independently and to the index finger for a moment for the
author to entschlüpfen, it is best that the monologues are not
executed, but are merely hinted at. Because it is quite indifferent
what in sleep, the parrot or the cat is spoken, as it is no effect
on the action is exercised, it may be a gifted actor in the middle
of the mood and the situation inside is this better improvise when
the author who does not calculate in advance how much and how long
geschwatzt can be up to the audience from the illusion will be
awakened.

Where the monologue should be unlikely, I grabbed the pantomime and
here I leave the actor more freedom to dense and self-honor to win.

To the audience, however, not too much to the test to ensure I have
the music, dance through the night in the locust is well motivated,
their seductive power during the silent game, exercise, and ask
the music director is to heed that he does not foreign moods must
awaken the memory of the opera or dance repertoire of the day or
too popular ethnographic Melodieen. The ballet, [B] which I
have introduced, could by no national scene to be replaced
because Volksscenen poorly played, and a lot of fun maker would
use the opportunity to make noticeable and thereby disrupt
the illusion. Because the people ill will not even his improvised,
but is already ready to use material, which has a double
meaning, I am the "invective poem" is not sealed, but a less known
uses dance game, which I myself in the outskirts of Stockholm was
recorded. The words take about the matter, and totally sufficient,
as the cowardice of the amount allowed her not direct attacks.
[C] So, no definite jokes in a serious act, not a crude grin to a
situation which the lid on the coffin of one sex sets. [Note B:
The author means here of course with a dance ballet, folk, and
does not think about the famous short Röckchen and flesh-colored
Tricot. The Übers] [Note C: To meet this intent of the poet as
closely as possible to be fair, I chose for an older German
»Society song".

The Übers] As for the decorations is concerned, I have the
impressionist painting of the Cut-off and Unbalanced borrowed
and believe it to increase the illusion, because it means that you
do not have the whole scene and the whole Möblement see, it
is possible to Room to guess: the imagination is aroused and
replaces the missing. Also, I have achieved it, that I was tiring
walking and coming through the doors was going on, especially
since the Theaterthüren from canvas and are at the slightest
movement flutter. Likewise, I have to a single decoration required
to enable the people to merge with the surroundings, and to
continue with the decoration luxury break. I have the background
and the table decorations _schräg_ asked to the actors to make
"en face" and in half profile to play at the table when they
sit opposite each other. Another, perhaps not unnecessary to
remove the improvement would be the ramp. This light from the
bottom seems to have the task of the actors in the history of
appearing to be, but I must ask: Why should all good actors
have faces? Whether the light from below is not a lot of
fine lines in the lower Partieen of the face, including the
jaw, blurred, if not the shape of the nose changed and eye shadow
over the casts? And if not, it is sure that the eyes of the
actor is unpleasant, so that the powerful play of the gaze is
lost, because the light of the ramp take positions on the retina,
which otherwise are protected and that one rarely sees the other
movements eyes, as a stupid staring to the side or up to the rows
of boxes, so that the whites in the eye to see. Perhaps you can
cause the same tired eyes blinking with the lid on the actors
and actresses with the name attribute. And if someone on
stage with her eyes speak, he can only see straight into the
audience, with whom he (or she) is outside the framework of the
play, initiating a direct correspondence, and a bad habit, which
rightly or wrongly »Known welcome" called is.
They are also of such an exquisite honesty that, if they
do not think your wit is funny, they will not smile at it, and
this may grieve some of our jokers. But, if you have something
fine and good in you, you need not be afraid they will fail of
it, and they will not be so long about finding it out as some
travellers say. When it comes to the grace of the imaginative in
your pleasantry, they will be even beforehand with you. But in
their extreme of impersonality they will leave the initiative to
you in the matter of humor as in others. They will no more seek
out your peculiar humor than they will name you in speaking with
you.


VIII

Nothing in England seeks you out, except the damp. Your
impressions, you have to fight for them. What you see or hear
seems of accident. The sort of people you have read of your whole
life, and are most intimate with in fiction, you must surprise.
They no more court observance than the birds in whose seasonable
slaughter society from the King down delights. In fact, it is
probable that, if you looked for both, you would find the gunner
shyer than the gunned. The pheasant and the fox are bred to give
pleasure by their chase; they are tenderly cared for and watched
over and kept from harm at the hands of all who do not wish to
kill them for the joy of killing, and they are not so elusive but
they can be seen by easy chance. The pheasant especially has at
times all but the boldness of the barnyard in his fearless port.
Once from my passing train, I saw him standing in the middle of a
ploughed field, erect, distinct, like a statue of himself,
commemorative of the long ages in which his heroic death and
martyr sufferance have formed the pride of princes and the peril
of poachers. But I never once saw him shot, though almost as many
gunners pursue him as there are pheasants in the land. This alone
shows how shy the gunners are; and when once I saw the trail of a
fox-hunt from the same coign of vantage without seeing the fox, I
felt that I had almost indecently come upon the horse and hounds,
and that the pink coats and the flowery spread of the dappled
dogs over the field were mine by a kind of sneak as base as
killing a fox to save my hens.


IX

Equally with the foxes and the pheasants, the royalties and
nobilities abound in English novels, which really form the chief
means of our acquaintance with English life; but the chances that
reveal them to the average unintroduced, unpresented American are
rarer. By these chances, I heard, out of the whole peerage, but
one lord so addressed in public, and that was on a railroad
platform where a porter was reassuring him about his luggage.
Similarly, I once saw a lady of quality, a tall and girlish she,
who stood beside her husband, absently rubbing with her glove the
window of her motor, and whom but for the kind interest of our
cabman we might never have known for a duchess. It is by their
personal uninsistence largely, no doubt, that the monarchy and
the aristocracy exist; the figures of the faery dream remain
blent with the background, and appear from it only when required
to lay cornerstones, or preside at races, or teas or bazars, or
to represent the masses at home and abroad, and invisibly hold
the viewless reins of government.

Yet it must not be supposed that the commoner sort of dreamers
are never jealous of these figments of their fancy. They are
often so, and rouse themselves to self-assertion as frequently as
our Better Element flings off the yoke of Tammany. At a fair,
open to any who would pay, for some forgotten good object, such
as is always engaging the energies of society, I saw moving among
the paying guests the tall form of a nobleman who had somehow
made himself so distasteful to his neighbors that they were not
his friends, and regularly voted down his men, whether they stood
for Parliament or County Council, and whether they were better
than the popular choice or not. As a matter of fact, it was said
that they were really better, but the people would not have them
because they were his; and one of the theories of English
manliness is that the constant pressure from above has toughened
the spirit and enabled Englishmen to stand up stouter and
straighter each in his place, just as it is contended elsewhere
that the aesthetic qualities of the human race have been
heightened by its stresses and deprivations in the struggle of
life.

For my own part, I believe neither the one theory nor the other.
People are the worse for having people above them, and are the
ruder and coarser for having to fight their way. If the triumph
of social inequality is such that there are not four men in
London who are not snobs, it cannot boast itself greater than the
success of economic inequality with ourselves, among whom the
fight for money has not produced of late a first-class poet,
painter, or sculptor. The English, if they are now the manliest
people under the sun, have to thank not their masters but
themselves, and a nature originally so generous that no abuse
could lastingly wrong it, no political absurdity spoil it. But if
this nature had been left free from the beginning, we might see
now a nation of Englishmen who, instead of being bound so hard
and fast in the bonds of an imperial patriotism, would be the
first in a world-wide altruism. Yet their patriotism is so devout
that it may well pass itself off upon them for a religious
emotion, instead of the superstition which seems to the stranger
the implication of an England in the next world as well as in
this.


X

We fancy that, because we have here an Episcopal Church, with its
hierarchy, we have something equivalent to the English Church.
But that is a mistake. The English Church is a part of the whole
of English life, as the army or navy is; in English crowds, the
national priest is not so frequent as the national soldier, but
he is of as marked a quality, and as distinct from the civil
world, in uniform, bearing, and aspect; in the cathedral towns,
he and his like form a sort of spiritual garrison. At home here
you may be ignorant of the feasts of the Episcopal Church without
shame or inconvenience; but in England you had better be versed
in the incidence of all the holy days if you would stand well
with other men, and would know accurately when the changes in the
railroad time-tables will take place. It will not do to have
ascertained the limits of Lent; you must be up in the
Michaelmases and Whitmondays, and the minor saints' days. When
once you have mastered this difficult science, you will realize
what a colossal transaction the disestablishment of the English
Church in England would be, and how it would affect the whole
social fabric.

But, even when you have learned your lesson, it will not be to
you as that knowledge which has been lived, and which has no more
need ever to question itself than the habitual pronunciation of
words. If one has moved in good English society, one has no need
ever to ask how a word is pronounced, far less to go to the
dictionary; one pronounces it as one has always heard it
pronounced. The sense of this gives the American a sort of
despair, like that of a German or French speaking foreigner, who
perceives that he never will be able to speak English. The
American is rather worse off, for he has to subdue an inward
rebellion, and to form even the wish to pronounce some English
words as the English do. He has, for example, always said
"financier," with the accent on the last syllable; and if he has
consulted his Webster he has found that there was no choice for
him. Then, when he hears it pronounced at Oxford by the head of a
college with the accent on the second syllable, and learns on
asking that it is never otherwise accented in England, his head
whirls a little, and he has a sick moment, in which he thinks he
had better let the verb "to be" govern the accusative as the
English do, and be done with it, or else telegraph for his
passage home at once. Or stop! He must not "telegraph," he must
"wire."


XI

As for that breathing in the wrong place which is known as
dropping one's aitches, I found that in the long time between the
first and last of my English sojourns, there had arisen the
theory that it was a vice purely cockney in origin, and that it
had grown upon the nation through the National Schools. It is
grossly believed, or boldly pretended, that till the National
School teachers had conformed to the London standard in their
pronunciation the wrong breathing was almost unknown in England,
but that now it was heard everywhere south of the Scottish
border. Worse yet, the teachers in the National Schools had
scattered far and wide that peculiar intonation, that droll slip
or twist of the vowel sounds by which the cockney alone formerly
proclaimed his low breeding, and the infection is now spread as
far as popular learning. Like the wrong breathing, it is social
death "to any he that utters it," not indeed that swift
extinction which follows having your name crossed by royalty from
the list of guests at a house where royalty is about to visit,
but a slow, insidious malady, which preys upon its victim, and
finally destroys him after his life-long struggle to shake it
off. It is even worse than the wrong breathing, and is destined
to sweep the whole island, where you can nowhere, even now, be
quite safe from hearing a woman call herself "a lydy." It may
indeed be the contagion of the National School teacher, but I
feel quite sure, from long observation of the wrong breathing,
that the wrong breathing did not spread from London through the
schools, but was everywhere as surely characteristic of the
unbred in England as nasality is with us. Both infirmities are of
national origin and extent, and both are individual or personal
in their manifestation. That is, some Americans in every part of
the Union talk through their noses; some Englishmen in every part
of the kingdom drop their aitches.

The English-speaking Welsh often drop their aitches, as the
English-speaking French do, though the Scotch and Irish never
drop them, any more than the Americans, or the English of the
second generation among us; but the extremely interesting and
great little people of Wales are otherwise as unlike the English
as their mother-language is. They seem capable of doing anything
but standing six feet in their stockings, which is such a very
common achievement with the English, but that is the fault of
nature which gave them dark complexions and the English fair.
Where the work of the spirit comes in, it effects such a
difference between the two peoples as lies between an Eisteddfod
and a horse-race. While all the singers of Wales met in artistic
emulation at their national musical festival at Rhyl, all the
gamblers of England met in the national pastime of playing the
horses at Doncaster. More money probably changed hands on the
events at Doncaster than at Rhyl, and it was characteristic of
the prevalent influence in the common civilization (if there is a
civilization common to both races) that the King was at Doncaster
and not at Rhyl. But I do not say this to his disadvantage, for I
was myself at Doncaster and not at Rhyl. You cannot, unless you
have a very practised ear, say which is the finer singer at an
Eisteddfod, but almost any one can see which horse comes in first
at a race.


XII

What is most striking in the mixture of strains in England is
that it apparently has not ultimately mixed them; and perhaps
after a thousand years the racial traits will be found marking
Americans as persistently. We now absorb, and suppose ourselves
to be assimilating, the different voluntary and involuntary
immigrations; but doubtless after two thousand years the African,
the Celt, the Scandinavian, the Teuton, the Gaul, the Hun, the
Latin, the Slav will be found atavistically asserting his origin
in certain of their common posterity. The Pennsylvania Germans
have as stolidly maintained their identity for two centuries as
the Welsh in Great Britain for twenty, or, so far as history
knows, from the beginning of time. The prejudices of one British
stock concerning another are as lively as ever, apparently,
however the enmities may have worn themselves away. One need not
record any of these English prejudices concerning the Scotch or
Irish; they are too well known; but I may set down the opinion of
a lively companion in a railroad journey that the Welsh are "the
prize liars of the universe." He was an expert accountant by
profession, and his affairs took him everywhere in the three
Kingdoms, and this was his settled error; for the Welsh
themselves know that, if they sometimes seem the prey of a lively
imagination, it is the philologically noted fault of their
language, which refuses to lend itself to the accurate expression
of fact, but which would probably afford them terms for
pronouncing the statement of my accountant inexact. He was
perhaps a man of convictions rather than conclusions, for, though
he was a bright intelligence, of unusually varied interests,
there were things that had never appealed to him. We praised
together the lovely September landscape through which we were
running, and I ventured some remark upon the large holdings of
the land: a thing that always saddened me in the face of nature
with the reflection that those who tilled the soil owned none of
it; though I ought to have remembered the times when the soil
owned them, and taken heart. My notion seemed to strike him for
the first time, but he dismissed the fact as a necessary part of
the English system; it had never occurred to him that there could
be question of that system. There must be many Englishmen to whom
it does occur, but if you do not happen to meet them you cannot
blame the others.

I fancied that one of the Englishmen to whom it might have
occurred was he whom I met in Wales at Aberystwyth, where we
spoke together a moment in the shadow of the co-educational
University there, and who seemed at least of a different mind
concerning the Welsh. "These Welsh farmers," he said, "send their
sons and daughters to college as if it were quite the natural
thing to do. But just imagine a Dorsetshire peasant sending his
boy to a University!"

We suppose that the large holdings of land are the effect of
wrongs and abuses now wholly in the past, and that the causes for
their increase are no longer operative, but are something like
those geological laws by which the strata under them formed
themselves. Once, however, in driving through the most beautiful
part of England, which I will not specify because every part of
England is the most beautiful, I came upon an illustration of the
reverse, as signal as the spectacle of a landslide. It was the
accumulation, not merely within men's memories, but within the
actual generation, of vast bodies of land in the hold of a great
nobleman who had contrived a title in them by the simple device
of enclosing the people's commons. It was a wrong, but there was
no one of the wronged who was brave enough or rich enough to
dispute it through the broken law, and no witness public-spirited
enough to come to their aid. Such things make us think patiently,
almost proudly, of our national foible of graft, which may really
be of feudal origin. Doubtless the aggression was attacked in the
press, but we all know what the attacks of the press amount to
against the steadfast will of a powerful corporation, and a great
nobleman in England is a powerful corporation. In this instance
he had not apparently taken the people's land without some wish
to make them a return for it. He had built a handsome road
through their property, which he maintained in splendid
condition, and he allowed them to drive over his road, and to
walk freely in certain portions of their woods. He had also built
a magnificent hospital for them, and it seemed rather hard, then,
to hear that one of the humblest of them had been known to speak
of him in whispered confidence as a "Upas tree."


XIII

Probably he was not personally a Upas tree, probably the rancor
toward him left from being bawled after by one of his gatemen at
a turning we had taken in his enclosure, "That's a private path!"
was unjust. There was no sign, such as everywhere in England
renders a place secure from intrusion. The word "Private" painted
up anywhere does the effect of bolts and bars and of all obsolete
man-traps beyond it, and is not for a moment that challenge to
the wayfaring foot which it seems so often with us; but the
warnings to the public which we make so mandatory, the English
language with unfailing gentleness. You are not told to keep your
foot or your wheel to a certain pathway; you are "requested," and
sometimes even "kindly requested"; I do not know but once I was
"respectfully requested." Perhaps that nobleman's possession of
these lands was so new that his retainers had to practise
something of unwonted rudeness in keeping it wholly his where he
chose. At any rate, the rule of civility is so universal that the
politeness from class to class is, for what the stranger sees,
all but unfailing. I dare say he does not see everything, even
the Argus-eyed American, but apparently the manners of the lower
class, where they have been touched by the upper, have been
softened and polished to the same consistence and complexion.
When it comes to the proffers, and refusals, and insistences, and
acceptances between people of condition, such as I witnessed once
in a crowded first-class carriage from London on an Oxford
holiday, nothing could be more gently urgent, more beautifully
forbearing. If the writers of our romantic novels could get just
those manners into their fiction, I should not mind their dealing
so much with the English nobility and gentry; for those who
intend being our nobility and gentry, by-and-by, could not do
better than study such high-breeding.

If we approach the morals of either superiors or inferiors, we
are in a region where it behooves us to tread carefully. To be
honest, I know nothing about them, and I will not assume to know
anything. I heard from authority which I could not suspect of
posing for omniscience that the English rustics were apt to be
very depraved, but they may on the other hand be saints for all
that I can prove against them. They are superstitious, it is
said, and there are few villages or old houses that have not
their tutelary spectres. The belief in ghosts is almost universal
among the people; as I may allow without superiority, for I do
not know but I believe in them myself, and there are some million
of American spiritualists who make an open profession of faith in
them. It is said also that the poor in England are much spoiled
by the constant aid given them in charity. This is supposed to
corrupt them, and to make them dependent upon the favors of
fortune, rather than the sweat of their brows. On the other hand,
they often cannot get work, as I infer from the armies of the
unemployed, and, in these cases, I cannot hold them greatly to
blame if they bless their givers by their readiness to receive.
If one may infer from the incessant beneficences, and the
constant demands for more and more charities, one heaped upon
another, there are more good objects in England than anywhere
else under the sun, for one only gives to good objects, of
course. The oppression of the subscriptions is tempered by the
smallness of the sum which may satisfy them. "Five shillings is a
subscription," said a friend who was accused of really always
giving five pounds.


XIV

The English rich do not give so spectacularly as our rich do--
that is, by handfuls of millions, but then the whole community
gives more, I think, than our community does, and when it does
not give, the necessary succor is taxed out of its incomes and
legacies. I do not mean that there is no destitution, but only
that the better off seem to have the worse off more universally
and perpetually in mind than with us. All this is believed to be
very demoralizing to the poor, and doubtless the certainty of
soup and flannel is bad for the soul of an old woman whose body
is doubled up with rheumatism. The Church seems to blame for much
of the evil that ensues from giving something to people who have
nothing; but I dare say the Dissenters are also guilty.

Just how much is wanted to stay the stomach of a healthy pauper,
it would be hard to say; but now and then the wayfarer gets some
hint of the frequency if not the amount of feeding among the poor
who are able to feed themselves. One day, in the outskirts--they
were very tattered and draggled--of Liverpool, we stopped at a
pastry-shop, where the kind woman "thought she could accommodate"
us with a cup of tea, though she was terribly pressed with custom
from all sorts of minute maids and small boys coming in for
"penn'orths" of that frightful variety of tart and cake which
dismays the beholder from innumerable shop windows in England.
When we were brought our safer refection, we noted her activities
to the hostess, and she said, "Yes, they all want a bit of cake
with their tea, even the poorest"; and when we ventured our
supposition that they made their afternoon tea the last meal of
the day, she laughed at the notion. "Last meal! They have a good
supper before they go to bed. Indeed, they all want their four
meals a day."

Another time, thriftily running in a third-class carriage from
Crewe to Chester, I was joined by a friendly man who addressed me
with the frank cordiality of the lower classes in recognizing one
of their sort. "They don't know how to charge!" he said, with an
irony that referred to the fourpence he had been obliged to pay
for a cup of station tea; and when I tried to allege some
mitigating facts in behalf of the company, he readily became
autobiographical. The transition from tea to eating generally was
easy, and he told me that he was a plumber, going to do a job of
work at Llandudno, where he had to pay fourteen bob, which I knew
to be shillings and mentally translated into $3.50, a week for
his board. His wages were $1.50 a day, which the reader who
multiplies fourpence by twenty, to make up the difference in
money values, will find to be the wages of a good mechanic in the
first Edward's time, five hundred years ago. On this he professed
to live very well. He rose every morning at half-past four, and
at six he had a breakfast of bread, butter, and coffee; at nine
he had porridge and coffee; at one, he had soup, meat, and eggs,
and perhaps beer; at night, after he got home from work, he had a
stew and a bit of meat, and perhaps beer, with Mother. He thought
that English people ate too much, generally, and especially on
Sunday, when they had nothing else to do. Most men never came
home without asking, "Well, Mother, what have you got for me to
eat now?" When I remembered how sparely our farm people and
mechanics fared, I thought that he was right, or they were wrong;
for the puzzling fact remained that they looked gaunt and
dyspeptic, and he hale and fresh, though the difference may have
had as much to do with the air as the food. I liked him, and I
cannot leave him without noting that he was of the lean-faced,
slightly aquiline British type, with a light mustache; he was
well dressed and well set up, and he spoke strongly, as North
Britons do, with nothing of our people's husky whine. I found him
on further acquaintance of anti-Chamberlain politics, pro-Boer as
to the late war, and rather socialistic. He blamed the labor men
for not choosing labor men to office instead of the gentry who
offered themselves. The story plays in the Midsummer Night in a
Count's kitchen. Scene: A large kitchen, whose walls and ceiling
of the drapery and Soffit obstructed. The wall runs diagonally
from the left in the scene inside, on the left page contains two
frames with copper, brass, iron and pewter, and the frames are
decorated with jagged paper, slightly farther to the right you can
see three-quarters of the great vaulted output with two Glasthüren
through which a fountain with a Amor, blooming lilac bushes
and some poplar trees are visible. entrances right and left.
On the left of the stage a corner of a large tile stove
with a portion of the flue. a right end of a Gesindeeßtisches
of white spruce with some chairs ; on the table a large Japanese
Kruk with lilacs. The cooker is equipped with birch twigs
ausgeputzt, the ground strewn with juniper.

A refrigerator, a sink and a Aufwaschtisch.

A large, striking above the ancient door and a voice on the left
side of it. _Christine_ Is left on the stove and bratet something
in a pan, it has a bright Kattunkleid and a kitchen apron around.
_Jean_ Comes from the inside Glasthür, in livery, he bears in the
hands of a few great riding boots with spurs, which he based
on a visible place on the rear floor is. _Jean._ Tonight Miss Julie
is once again crazy, totally crazy! _Christine . _ So, you're
here now? _Jean._ I accompanied the Lord Count Station, and
when I got on the way back to the barn vorüberkam, I went
inside to dance. Miss Julie just danced with Foresters; than me
but was aware she just happening to me and asks me to waltz on
Women. And since then she has danced in a way that I never
saw something like this. It is simply crazy. _Christine._ That is
they always have been, but never like the last fortnight, since
the engagement was annulled. _Jean._ Yes, what was actually for
a story. It was a fine fellow, if he was not rich. Oh yes! they
have so many moods! (He is right at the table.) It is strange in
any case by the lady that they prefer when the people want to
stay home when her father to accompany their relatives? Not?
_Christine._ Yes, it probably feels like a little embarrassed
after the story with her bridegroom. _Jean._ Can happen! But
it is in any case an efficient guy. You know, Christine, as
it came? I saw it on, even though I wanted nothing to remember.
_Christine._ How? You saw it on? _Jean._ Yes, that I do. They were
one evening at the bottom of the Stallhof, and the lady "tränierte"
him, as they called it - you know what they did? She let him
jump on the horsewhip, like a dog that can "hop" it teaches.
Twice he jumped over and got every one fell swoop, but the third
time he took her riding whip from his hand, they broke into a
thousand pieces, and - fell. _Christine._ So did it work?
No, what you say! _Jean._ Yes, that was it! But you can not now
me something good to eat, Christine? _Christine_ (Lays out the
pan and set it before Jean). Oh, just a little bit of kidneys,
which I made the veal roast was cut out!

_Jean_ (Beriecht the food). Ah! Very nice, this is my biggest Delice!
(He touched the plate.) But you have the plate can warm up!
_Christine._ You're still krittlicher when even the count, when
you first start. (It takes him caress the hair.) _Jean_ (Evil).
Au! You must not break me, you know how sensitive I am. _Christine._
Na, na, it was just out of love. _Jean_ (Eat). _Christine_ (Pulls
a bottle of beer). _Jean._ Beer in the Midsummer Night?
Nein, danke bestens! Since I was even better. (He opens the
desk drawer and take a bottle of red with yellow paint out.) Yellow
paint, you see! Gieb me a glass now! A Fußglas, of course, if
you drink wine _reinen_. _Christine_ (Turns back to the stove
and set on a small casserole). God, the merciful, the once you
get to the man! Such a Kräkler! Oh _Jean._ red 'but
not! You're very happy, if you so'n fine guy, like me, to acquire,
and I do not believe that thou hast claims that you called me
your lover! (He tastes the wine.) Ah! Very beautiful! Very beautiful!
Only too little temper! (He warms the glass by hand.) Den we
bought in Dijon. And he came to the liter four francs
without glass, and then to the customs! Cook What you doing
now? It stinks so infernal!
They do not see any
difference between our conditions and theirs, as regards the man
who works for his living with his hands, except that wages are
higher with us, and that physically there is more elbow-room,
though mentally and morally there is not. Save a little in my
Unitarian minister, and this only conjecturally, I did not
encounter that fine spirit which in Old England used to imagine
the New World we have not quite turned out to be; but once I met
an Englishman who had lived in Canada, and who, gentleman-bred as
he was, looked back with fond homesickness to the woods where he
had taken up land, and built himself a personable house, chiefly
with his own hands. He had lived himself out of touch with his
old English life in that new country, and had drawn breath in an
opener and livelier air which filled his lungs as the home
atmosphere never could again.


XVI

Yet he was standing stiffly up for himself, and strewing his
convictions and opinions broadcast as the English all do when
pressed by circumstance, while we, with none of their shyness,
mostly think our thoughts to ourselves. I suppose we do it
because we like better than they to seem of one effect with the
rest of our kind. In England one sees a variety of dress in men
which one rarely sees at home. They dress there not only in
keeping with their work and their play, but in the indulgence of
any freak of personal fancy, so that in the street of a
provincial town, like Bath, for instance, you will encounter in a
short walk a greater range of trousers, leggings, caps, hats,
coats, jackets, collars, scarfs, boots and shoes, of tan and
black, than you would meet at home in a month of Sundays. The
differences do not go to the length of fashions, such as reduce
our differences to uniformity, and clothe, say, our legs in
knickerbockers till it is found everybody is wearing them, when
immediately nobody wears them. Only ladies, of fashions beyond
men's, gratify caprices like ours, and even these perhaps not
voluntarily. In the obedience they show to the rule that they
must never wear the same dinner or ball gown twice, it was said
(but who can ever find out the truth of such things?) that they
sometimes had sent home from the dressmaker's a number of dresses
on liking, and wore them in succession, only to return them, all
but one at least, as not liked, the dressmaker having found her
account in her work being shown in society.

[Illustration: AN ENGLISH HOUSEMAID]

I do not know just what is to be inferred from a social fact or
statement like this, but I may say that the devotion to an ideal
of social position is far deeper with the English than with us.
At your _Jean._? Wait a little? As a high-born, as a woman -
as the Fallen? - I do not know - yes! now I know! _Julie_ (takes
the razor and makes a movement). So? _Jean._ Yes! But I would
not thun - note the well! because that is the difference between
us. _Julie._ Because you are a man and I a woman? What is a
difference? _Jean._ The same difference - like - between
husband and wife! _Julie_ (With the knife in his hand). I want
it, but I can not! My father could not, at that time than he would
have to be tuna. _Jean._ No, he would not be thun! He had only
revenge! _Julie._ And now avenge my mother through me again! _Jean._
Did not your father loved, Miss Julie? _Julie._ Yes, without
limit, but I have hated him too! I must have done it without it
even to notice. But he has disdain myself for my own sex is
used to Halbweib and Halbmann. Who's to blame for what happened?
My father, my mother, myself! I myself? I have no self! I
do not have a thought that I am not my father, not a passion
that I do not get from my mother would have, and the last - that
all men are equal - I got from my fiance, whom I call about a
villain ! How can it be my own offense? The debt to push Jesus,
as Christine does - no, I will be proud and too clever - thanks
to the teachings of my father.

And that will not come into the kingdom of heaven, this is a lie,
and Christine, the money in the savings bank has not come
into it at least! Who's to blame for the offense? What is to us
who she is! Am I there yet, the guilt and the consequences to
bear. _Jean._ Yes, but - (It will ring loud twice.) _Julie_
(Runs on). _Jean_ (Changes quickly left the Rock). The count is
at home! Do you think if Christine - (He goes back to the
mouthpiece, knocking on and listens.) _Julie._ Now he has been
at the secretary? _Jean._ It is Jean, Mr. Earl! (He listens, one
hears not what the Count speaks.) Yes, Mr. Graf (He listens.)
Yes, Mr. Earl! Immediately. (He listens.) Very well, Mr. Earl!
(He listens.) Yes! In half an hour. _Julie_ (Extremely anxious).
What he said? Lord Jesus, what he said? _Jean._ He demanded his
boots and his coffee in half an hour. _Julie._ So in half an hour!
O I'm so tired I can not, I can not regret, not to flee, not
to stay, not to live, not to die! Help me now! Commands me,
and I will obey like a dog! Take me to the last service,
save my honor, you save my name! You know what I want _sollte_,
but does not want. Do you want it, and commanding me to perform!
_Jean._ I do not know - but now I can not - I do not understand
it.

It is as if the rock here has meant that I can commend you nothing
- and now, since the count has spoken to me - I can not quite explain
it - but - ah, it's the lackey, the me sitting in the back!

I believe that if the count would come now and I would commend,
I should cut my throat, I would place it on the tuna. _Julie._
Tuna you as if you were he, I and you! They were able to recently
move so well as you in front of me on the knees were -
since you were a knight - or are you never in the theater and
have seen the Magnetiseur? _Jean_ (Makes a positive gesture).
Upon this episode he became freely
autobiographical, especially concerning his service in India. He
volunteered the declaration that he had had enough of war, but he
added, thoughtfully, "I should like to go out for a couple of
years if there was any trouble with Russia."

The love of England comes out charmingly in the swarming of
English tourists in every part of their country. Americans may
sometimes outnumber them at the Continental shrines, but we are
in a pitiful minority at the memorable places in England; in
fact, we are nowhere beside the natives. I liked their fondness
for their own so much that I never could feel the fine scorn for
"trippers" which I believe all persons of condition ought to
assume. Even when the trippers did not seem very intelligently
interested in what they saw, they were harmlessly employed, for a
scene of beauty, or of historic appeal, could not be desecrated
by the courtships which are constantly going on all over England,
especially at the holiday seasons.

The English are, indeed, great holiday-makers, even when past the
age of putting their arms around one another's waists. The many
and many seaside resorts form the place of their favorite
outings, where they try to spend such days and weeks of the late
summer as their savings will pay for. It is said that families in
very humble station save the year round for these vacations, and,
having put by twelve or fifteen pounds, repair to some such
waterside as Blackpool, or its analogue in their neighborhood,
and lavish them upon the brief joy of the time. They take the
cheaper lodgings, and bring with them the less perishable
provisions, and lead a life of resolute gayety on the sands and
in the sea, and at the pier-ends where the negro minstrels and
the Pierrots, who equally abound, make the afternoons and
evenings a delight which no one would suspect from their faces to
be the wild thing it is. If they go home at the end "high
sorrowful and cloyed," there is no forecast of it in their
demeanor, which is as little troubled as it is animated. The
young people are even openly gay, and the robustness of their
flirtations adds sensibly to the interest of the spectator. Our
own public lovers seem of a humbler sort, and they mostly content
themselves with the passive embraces of which every seat in our
parks affords an example; but in England such lovers add playful
struggles. A favorite pastime seemed to be for one of them to
hold something in the hand, and for the other to try prying it
open. When it was the young man who kept his hand shut, the
struggle could go on almost indefinitely. I suppose it led to
many engagements and marriages.

When the young people were not walking up and down, or playfully
scuffling, they were reading novels; in fact, I do not imagine
that anywhere else in the world is there a half, or a tenth part,
so much fiction consumed as in the English summer resorts. It is
probably of the innutritious lightness of pop-corn; I had never
the courage to look at the volumes which I could so easily have
overlooked; but I am sure it was all out of the circulating
library. As there were often several young women to one man, most
of the girls had to content themselves with the flirtations in
the books, where, I dare say, the heroines were always prying the
heroes' hands open. On every seat one found them poring upon the
glowing page, and met them in every walk with a volume under the
arm, and another clasped to the heart. At places where the hand
played, and they were ostensibly listening to the music, they
were bowed upon their books, and the flutter of the turning
leaves almost silenced the blare of the horns. By what
inspiration they knew when _God Save the King_ was coming,
and rose with a long sigh heaved in common, I should not be able
to say. Perhaps they always reached the end of a story at the
time the band came to that closing number, or perhaps they felt
its imminence in their nerves. The fiction was not confined to
the young girls, however. Both sexes and all ages partook of it;
I saw as many old girls as young girls reading novels, and
mothers of families were apparently as much addicted to the
indulgence. I suppose they put by their books when they took tea,
which is the other most noticeable dissipation in England. But I
cannot enter upon that chapter; it is too large a theme; I will
say, merely, that as the saloons are on Sixth Avenue, so the tea-
rooms are in every part of the island.

Public lectures preacher should hold to love people, and a duty of
all ceremoniellen Accessories liberated to preach Christianity.

The unemployment, poverty and disease should be done will stop, it
was through the establishment of public utilities and hospitals in
each city, as well as public dining houses everywhere to help the
poor and thus the demands of the modern age needs. "" How?

With such things they differ? All she says to you? "Were
both Lavard, and Axel also did not lower with the main surprise."
Yes, and still others! It could be a scholarly lecture out of
it. "After Lucile geendigt had those present initially remained
in silence. What they had heard, they are employed exclusively."
Ah yes, now I understand a lot - "the Countess sinnend took the
floor again. "Truly it is high time to intervene," she, turned
against her husband, continued, - "if we do not have a great
experience to be an affront. You must exercise your rights and
still in the beginning, by appropriate means to mitigate or
eliminate examine what is in it for themselves Perishable has
fixed .-- What say you, Count Dehn, what do you say? Would you
have thought that in Imgjor Wanted? "Axel moving the shoulders
and said:" What the Komtesse wants to honor them and raises
them in my eyes! But however, I also believe that they are
experiencing strong disappointment and will be very unhappy when
it's no funds giebt, her beautiful humanity on a real level
herabzumindern. "He wanted to talk more, but now just opened
Frederik, the Countess at the beginning of the interview for a
long time abgewinkt had anew the door and brought, by
Christian and other lackeys followed, the steaming bowls
of the following passage. He lifted the silver lid, and a Portuguese
type prepared, fried fish from the ponds of Gutsgebiets with
a corresponding fragrant sauce spread such a delicious hint that
the meaning of these tidbits of interest Imgjors transforming ideas
provisionally swallowed. * * * * * As Dehn Count on the following
morning between the first and second breakfast from a walk from the
Park returned home, he heard in the area of the castle a loud whimper
and remarked, as he investigated,, Hector, the dog of Imgjor, limping
with laborious movements of the rear entrance zustreben.

But even before the dog had reached the door, leaving him the
forces he remained in pain wimmernd, and are filled with his
Wehlauten the air. Dehn quickly hurried Graf came, peered under
which the poor creature was missing and saw that not only a
broken foot, but that the animal is still a eye was so hurt
that only a bloody cavity in the forehead gapes. And while Graf
Dehn still caring for the animal sought, appeared through the
action sounds from above herbeigelockt, Komtesse Imgjor
recognized, according to a count Dehn donated Volatile polite
Gruß, what had happened, and was taken to ensure that their
favorite streichelnd lovely and comforting, in excited words
about what happened.
Yet the English life is wonderfully perfected. With a faery
dream of a king supported in his preeminence by a nobility, a
nobility supported in turn by a commonalty, a commonalty
supported again by a proletariat resting upon immeasurable ether;
with a system of government kept, by assent so general that the
dissent does not matter, in the hands of a few families reared,
if not trained, to power; with a society so intimately and
thoroughly self-acquainted that one touch of gossip makes its
whole world kin, and responsive to a single emotion; with a
charity so wisely studied, and so carefully applied, that restive
misery never quite grows rebellious; with a patriotism so inborn
and ingrained that all things English seem righteous because
English; with a willingness to share the general well-being quite
to the verge, but never beyond the verge, of public control of
the administration--with all this, the thing must strike the
unbelieving observer as desperately perfect. "They have got it
down cold," he must say to himself, and confirm himself in his
unfaith by reflecting that it is very cold.


XIX

The best observer of England that ever was, he whose book about
the English makes all other comment seem idle and superfluous
palaver, that Ralph Waldo Emerson whom we always find ahead of us
when we look back for him, was once, as he relates in a closing
chapter of English Traits, brought to bay by certain great
English friends of his, who challenged him to say whether there
really were any Americans with an American idea, and a theory of
our future. "Thus challenged, I bethought myself neither of
Congress, neither of President nor of Cabinet Ministers, nor of
such as would make of America another Europe.... I opened the
dogma of no-government and non-resistance, and anticipated the
objections and the fun, and procured a kind of hearing for it. I
said, It is true that I have never yet seen in any country a man
of sufficient valor to stand for this truth, and yet ... 'tis
certain, as God liveth, the gun that does not need another gun,
the law of love and justice alone, can effect a clean
revolution.... I insisted ... that the manifest absurdity of the
view to English feasibility could make no difference to a
gentleman; that as to our secure tenure of our mutton-chop and
spinach in London or in Boston, the soul might quote Talleyrand,
'_Messieurs, je n'en vois pas la nécessité_.'" In other
words, Emerson laid before his great English friends a programme,
as nearly as might then be, of philosophical anarchism, and
naturally it met with no more acceptance than it would if now
presented to the most respectable of his American readers. But he
finally appeared, from the roaring acclamation of the gathered
received, and spoke with a loud, melodious voice about his
announced topic. And what he said made impression, because he sent
his words to choose knew because he never quiet clay left, and
because he is with such conviction of the validity of the claims
and by the undoubted achieve the eventual goal to erstrebenden
said that he had the audience completely in his proposed
ban.
We may be sure
that they will never have such another commonwealth, or any
resembling ours, which can no longer offer itself as an eminent
example.

The sort of Englishmen, of whose respect Americans can make
surest are those English thick-and-thin patriots who admire force
and strength, and believe that it is the Anglo-Saxon mission to
possess the earth, and to profit by its weaker peoples, not
cruelly, not unkindly, yet unquestionably. "Asked the little
Lizzi and moved to relocate Peters hair. "Come, be merry!
You do not always hang their heads. If you're funny, I want to
kiss you, too - really! "And she approached her cheeks with the
face of the boy. And she looked at him with that strange
little girl coquettishness. Peter lips pressed together and
his head was indeed difficult to him. And with two fingers, he
moved to the lower lip and tore a piece of skin away. All this
notion Lizzi not.They have already had their will
with the existing English state, until now that state is far more
the servant of the people in fetching and carrying, in guarding
them from hard masters and succoring them in their need, than the
republic which professes to derive its just powers from the
consent of the governed. When one encounters this sort of
Englishman, one thinks silently of the child labor in the South,
of the monopolies in the North, of the companies which govern
while they serve us, and one hopes that the Englishman is not
silently thinking of them too. "Peter replied, over and over
glow." No, - you _mich_! a lady may not kiss a Mr enter, "said
Lizzi loudly and strongly." You're no lady, "Peter growled
contemptuously, and he rejoiced that he had referred the disposable
tone had found. "You take pride, yes." But Lizzi omitted laughed
and pushed back his chin defiantly. "I'm actually do it! And yet!
Anyway you! Your mother said you are a dreamer. "And they danced
around him and clapped their hands. Peter answered nothing. He
made a face and a melancholy manner with his pipe Vistula
Brunnenschwengel busy on the go. As the girl came to him and
whispered into his ear: "Thou, Peter, what's really going
on with you? Say only?
I cannot name a nobleman of less rank, because I will not
belittle my rich countryman, but perhaps the English would think
differently, and would look upon him as lower than the latest
peer or the newest knight of the King's creation. The King, who
has no power, can do almost anything in England; and his touch,
which is no longer sovereign for scrofula, can add dignity and
give absolute standing to a man whose achievements merit it, but
who with us would fail of anything like it. But suddenly, while
they sinnend to heaven emporblickte, gushed down her cheeks on
a flood of shame. They turned and ran into the house. And Peter
shook his head sorrowfully. He felt agitated and bitter and
unhappy and did not know why.Yet our vision is doubtless prophetic, whatever
obliquities our frequent astigmatism may impart to it. Meantime,
in its ampler range there is room for the play of any misgiving
short of denial; but the English cannot doubt the justice of what
they have seen without forming an eccentric relation to the
actual fact. It was also apparent that the residents something
special dahinzog. Crowded groups of citizens, farmers and field
workers moved through the tree motion, all were in a hurry, and
from the neighborhood was still ongoing influx of new.As part of the English system, as a
true believer in the oligarchically administered monarchy,
Gladstone was illogical, and Tennyson was logical.


THE END