"This!" he said. "Why, this isn't harm! There isn't a man out there who is
not better off for what has happened to him. He has lost a little time, a
little money, a little sleep, and he has been given a new point of view, a
new manhood. As a city dweller he was becoming a mollusk, a creature that
could not exist without its shell. The city transported him, warmed him,
fed him, amused him, protected him. He had nothing to do with it in any
way; he didn't even know how it was done. Deprived of his push-buttons, he
was as helpless as a baby. Beyond the little stunt he did in his office or
his store, and beyond the ability to cross a crowded street, he was no
good. He not only didn't know how to do things, but he was rapidly losing,
through disuse, the power to learn how to do things. The modern city
dweller, bred, born, brought up on this island, is about as helpless and
useless a man, considered as a four-square, self-reliant individual, as
you can find on the broad expanse of the globe. I've got no use for a man
who can't take care of himself, who's got to have somebody else to do it
for him, whenever something to which he hasn't been accustomed rises up in
front of him!"

His eye was fixed somberly on the city stretching away into the haze of
the autumn day.

"You blame me for letting this thing run!" he went on. "Of course it
tickles me to death to see Eldridge flounder; but that isn't all. This is
the best thing that could happen to them out there! I'm just patriotic
enough to wish them more of it. It's good medicine! At last every man jack
of them is up against something he's got to decide for himself. The police
are useless; the fire department is useless; the railroads and street-cars
are crippled. If a man is going to take care of his life and property, he
must do it himself. He's buying back his self-reliance. Self-reliance is a
valuable property. He ought to pay something for it. Generally he has to
pay war or insurrection or bloody riot. In the present instance he's
getting off cheap."

He turned back from the open window. His eye traveled beyond Helen's trim
figure down the empty hall. "Wait right here, Jack," he shot over his
shoulder, and rushed along the hall and down the stairway before either
the young man or his sister could recover from their astonishment.


CHAPTER XX


THE PLAGUE OF COLD

Without pause, and three steps at a time, Darrow ran down three flights of
stairs. Then, recovering from his initial excitement somewhat, he caught
the elevator and shot to the street. There he walked rapidly to the
subway, which he took as far as City Hall Square. On emerging from the
subway station he started across for the _Despatch_ office as fast as he
could walk. By the entrance to the City Hall, however, he came to an
abrupt halt. From the open doorway rushed his friend, Officer Burns, of
the City Hall Station. The policeman's face was chalky white; his eyes
were staring, his cap was over one side, he staggered uncertainly. As he
caught sight of Darrow he stumbled to the young man and clung to his neck,
muttering incoherently. People passing in and out looked at him curiously
and smiled.

"My God!" gasped Burns, his eyes roving. "I says to him, 'Mike, I don't
wonder you've got cold feet.' And there he was, and the mayor--Heaven
save--and his secretary! My God!"

Darrow shook his shoulder.

"Here," he said decisively, "what are you talking about? Get yourself
together! Remember you're an officer; don't lose your nerve this way!"

At the touch to his pride Burns did pull himself together somewhat, but
went on under evident strong excitement.

"I went in just now to the mayor's office a minute," said he, "and saw my
friend Mike Mallory, the doorkeeper, settin' in his chair, as usual. It
was cold-like, and I went up to him and says, 'Mike, no wonder you get
cold feet down here,' just by way of a joke; and when he didn't answer, I
went up to him, and he was dead, there in his chair!"

"Well, you've seen dead men before. There's no occasion to lose your
nerve, even if you did know him," said Darrow.

The brutality of the speech had its intended effect. Burns straightened.

"That's all very well," said he more collectively. "_But the man was
froze_!"

"Frozen!" muttered Darrow, and whistled.

"Yes, and what's more, his little dog, setting by the chair, was froze,
too; so when I stepped back sudden and hit against him, he tumbled over
_bang_, like a cast-iron dog! That got my goat! I ran!"

"Come with me," ordered Darrow decisively.

They entered the building and ran up the single flight of stairs to the
second-story room which the mayor of that term had fitted up as a sort of
private office of his own. A sharp chill hung in the hallways; this
increased as they neared the executive's office. Outside the door sat the
doorkeeper in his armchair. Beside him was a dog, in the attitude of an
animal seated on its haunches, but lying on its side, one fore leg
sticking straight out. Darrow touched the man and stooped over to peer in
his face. The attitude was most lifelike; the color was good. A deadly
chill ran from Darrow's finger tips up his arm.

He pushed open the door cautiously and looked in.

"All right, Burns," said he. "The atmosphere has become gaseous again. We
can go in." With which strange remark he entered the room, followed
closely, but uncertainly by the officer.

The private office possessed the atmosphere of a cold-storage vault. Four
men occupied it. At the desk was seated the mayor, leaning forward in an
attitude of attention, his triple chin on one clenched fist, his heavy
face scowling in concentration. Opposite him lounged two men, one leaning
against the table, the other against the wall. One had his hand raised in
argument, and his mouth open. The other was watching, an expression of
alertness on his sharp countenance. At a typewriter lolled the clerk, his
hand fumbling among some papers.

The group was exceedingly lifelike, more so, Darrow thought, than any wax
figures the Eden Musee had ever placed for the mystification of its
country visitors. Indeed, the only indication that the men had not merely
suspended action on the entrance of the visitors was a fine white rime
frost that sparkled across the burly countenance of the mayor. Darrow
remembered that, summer and winter, that dignitary had always perspired!

Burns stood by the door, rooted to the spot, his jaw dropped, his eye
staring. Darrow quite calmly walked to the desk. He picked up the inkstand
and gazed curiously at its solidified contents, touched the nearest man,
gazed curiously at the papers on the desk, and addressed Burns.

"These seem to be frozen, too," he remarked almost sleepily, "and about
time, too. This is a sweet gang to be getting together on this sort of a
job!"

Quite calmly he gathered the papers on the desk and stuffed them into his
pocket. He picked up the desk telephone, giving a number. "Ouch, this
receiver's cold," he remarked to Burns. "Hello, _Despatch_. Is Hallowell
in the office? Just in? Send him over right quick, keen jump, City Hall,
mayor's second-story office. No, right now. Tell him it's Darrow."

He hung up the receiver.

"Curious phenomenon," he remarked to Burns, who still stood rooted to the
spot. "You see, their bodies were naturally almost in equilibrium, and, as
they were frozen immediately, that equilibrium was maintained. And the
color. I suppose the blood was congealed in the smaller veins, and did
not, as in more gradual freezing, recede to the larger blood-vessels. I'm
getting frost bitten myself in here. Let's get outside."

But Officer Burns heard none of this. As Darrow moved toward the door he
crossed himself and bolted. Darrow heard his heels clattering on the
cement of the corridors. He smiled.

"And now the deluge!" he remarked.

The crowds, terrified, inquisitive, sceptical, and speculative, gathered.
Officials swept them out and took possession. Hallowell and Darrow
conferred earnestly together.

"He has the power to stop heat vibrations, you see," Darrow said. "That
makes him really dangerous. His activities here are in line with his other
warnings; but he is not ready to go to extremes yet. The city is yet
safe."

"Why?" asked Hallowell.

"I know it. But he has the power. If he gets dangerous we must stop him."

"You are sure you can do it?"

"Sure."

"Then, for God's sake, do it! Don't you realize what will happen when news
of this gets out, and people understand what it means? Don't you feel your
guilt at those men's deaths?" He struck his hand in the direction of the
City Hall.

"The people will buy a lot of experience, at cost of a little fright and
annoyance," replied Percy Darrow carelessly. "It'll do them good. When
it's over, they'll come back again and be good. As for that bunch in
there--when you look over those papers I think you'll be inclined to agree
with what the religious fanatics will say--that it was a visitation of
God."

"But the old, the sick--there'll be deaths among them--the responsibility
is something fearful--"

"Never knew a battle fought yet without some loss," observed Darrow.

Hallowell was staring at him.

"I don't understand you," said the reporter. "You have no heart. You are
as bad as this Monsieur X, and between you you hold a city in your
power--one way or the other!"

"Well, I rather like being a little god," remarked Darrow.

Hallowell started once more to plead, but Darrow cut him short.

"You are thinking of the present," he said. "I am thinking of the future.
It's a good thing for people to find out that there's something bigger
than they are, or than anything they can make. That fact is the basis of
the idea of a God. These are getting to be a godless people." He turned on
Hallowell, his sleepy eyes lighting up. "I should be very sorry if I had
not intellect enough and imagination enough to see what this may mean to
my fellow people; and I should despise myself if I should let an
unrestrained compassion lose to four million people the rare opportunity
vouchsafed them."

He spoke very solemnly. Hallowell looked at him puzzled.

"Besides," said Darrow whimsically, "I like to devil Eldridge."

He dove into the subway. Hallowell gazed after him.

"There goes either a great man or a crazy fool," he remarked to an English
sparrow. He turned over rapidly the papers Darrow had found on the mayor's
desk, and smiled grimly. "Of all the barefaced, bald-headed steals!" he
said.

Darrow soon mounted once more the elevator of the Atlas Building. He found
Jack and Helen still waiting. Before entering the wireless office Darrow
cast a scrutinizing glance along the empty hall.

"It's all right," he said. "I'm surer than ever. Everything fits exactly.
Now, Helen," he said, "I want you to go home, and I want you to stay
there. No matter what happens, do not move from the house. This town is
going to have the biggest scare thrown into it that any town ever had
since Sodom and Gomorrah got their little jolt. In the language of the
Western prophet, 'Hell will soon be popping.' Let her pop. Sit tight; tell
your friends to sit tight. If necessary, tell them Monsieur X is captured,
and all his works. Tell them I said so."

His air of languid indifference had fallen from him. His eye was bright,
and he spoke with authority and vigor.

"You take her home, Jack," he commanded, "and return here at once. Don't
forget that nice new-blued pop-gun of yours; we're coming to the time when
we may need it."

Jack rose instantly to his mood.

"Correct, General!" he saluted. "Where'd you collect the plunder?" he
asked, pointing to a square black bag of some size that Darrow had brought
back with him.

"That," said Darrow, "is the first fruit of my larcenous tendencies. I
stole that from the mayor's office in the City Hall."

"What is it?"

"That," said Darrow, "I do not know."

He deposited the bag carefully by his chair, and turned, smiling, to
Helen.

"Good-by," said he. "Sleep tight."

They went out. Darrow seated himself in his chair, drew his hat over his
eyes, and fell into a doze. In the meantime, outside, all through the
city, hell was getting ready to pop.


CHAPTER XXI


IN THE FACE OF ETERNITY

Hell popped just as soon as the newspapers could get out their extras.
Monsieur X had at last struck, and both interest and belief urged the
managing editors at last to give publicity to all the theories, the facts,
and the latest message from the fanatic Unknown.

The latter came about three o'clock:

  "TO THE PEOPLE: You have defied me, and you have doubted my power.
  There is no good in you. I, who would have saved you, now must bring
  about your death as a stubborn and a stiff-necked generation. In
  humanity is no more good, and of this world I desire nothing more.
  Prepare within the next three hours to appear before a mightier
  throne than mine."

Percy Darrow, reading this, said to Jack Warford, "It is time to act,"
and, accompanied by the younger man, quietly left the room.

The reader of imagination--and no other will read this tale--must figure
to himself the island of Manhattan during the next two hours. The entire
population, nearly, tried to leave it at once. When only the suburban
dwellers, urged simply by the desire for a hot dinner, attempt to return
home between five and six, the ways are congested enough. Now, stricken
with the fear of death, the human cattle fought frantically to reach the
inadequate exits of the great theater of tragedy.

There was fighting in the streets, and panic, and stark rumor, of course;
and there was heroism, and coolness, and the taking of thought. To the
little group of men in the top floor of the Atlas Building the roar of
riot came up like the thunder of the orchestra before the rise of the
curtain. Most of the people in the streets fled from a danger they did not
understand. This little group in the wireless office realized clearly what
still and frozen dissolution the rising of the curtain would disclose.
They were not many; and they did not know what they were to do, if
anything; but they had not run away.

Eldridge was there, looking somewhat flustered for the first time in his
life, and four of the large committee that had employed him. Simmons sat
calmly at his post, and of all the reporters Hallowell alone had stood by.
He had faith in Darrow, and he knew that in the _Despatch_ office a little
handful of men stood in the shadow of death on the off chance of the
biggest scoop since Noah's flood.

The four solid citizens looked at one another. The oldest turned to
Eldridge.

"Then your opinion is that the city is doomed?"

"I can offer no other solution, sir," said the scientist. "It is at last
evident that this man's power over ethereal vibrations extends to those
forming heat-rays. If this is so, it follows that he can cut off all life
by stopping all heat. If his threat is carried out, we can but look
forward to a repetition on a large scale of the City Hall affair."

The aged financier now spoke to Simmons.

"And the last report from the searchers?" he asked formally.

"The search is being pushed, sir," replied the operator, "by twenty
thousand men. There remain some fifty miles of country to go over, Mr.
Lyons."

Lyons turned his shaggy head toward a younger, slim, keen-eyed man of
fifty.

"And the city will, in your judgment, Mr. Perkins, take how long to
empty?"

"Days--in the present confusion," said Perkins shortly. "We can move only
a limited percentage. Thank God, most of our men are standing by. I think
all our rolling stock is moving."

Lyons nodded twice.

"And you?" he asked the third of the party, a stout young man of
thirty-eight or so.

"How many stations are on the job, Simmons?" asked this man.

"All but two, sir," replied the operator. "D and P don't answer. I guess
they beat it."

"How do they report the bulletin men?"

"On the job," replied the wireless man.

The stout young man turned to Lyons.

"Well, sir," said he, "I don't know whether we or the hand of death will
be called on to quiet them"--he paused for an instant with uplifted hand;
the roar and crash and wail of the city-wide riot surged into the gap of
his silence--"but if it is we," he went on, "our little arrangements are
made. My men know what to do, and my men are on the job," he concluded
proudly.

Lyons nodded again.

"We have all done our best," said he. "Now, gentlemen, I do not see how we
can possibly accomplish anything more by remaining here. My automobile is
in concealment in the old stable in the rear of 127. My yacht is standing
off the Battery awaiting signal to come in. We have," he glanced at his
watch, "over an hour before the threatened catastrophe."

He looked up expectantly. The men all glanced uneasily at one another,
except Simmons, who stared at his batteries stolidly.

"Come, gentlemen," urged Lyons, after a moment. "There is really not much
time to lose, for you know the yacht must steam beyond the danger zone."

"Beat it," spoke up Simmons, at last. "There ain't any good of you here.
If anything comes in, I can handle it. It's just a case of send out orders
to your bulletin men."

"I think I'd better stay," observed Paige, the stout young man, with an
air of apology. "I know I'm not much use; but I've placed men, and they'll
stick; and if this freeze-out proposition goes through--why, they're in
it, and--"

"That's how I feel," broke in Perkins. "But you have done your full duty,
Mr. Lyons, and you have no reason to stay. Let me get your car around to
you--"

"Oh, I'm going to stay," said Lyons. "If you gentlemen feel it your duty,
how much more is it mine! Professor Eldridge"--he bowed to the
scientist--"you have done your best, which is more than any other mortal
man could have done, I am sure; and you, sir--" he said to Hallowell.

Eldridge and Hallowell shook their heads.

"I have failed," said Eldridge.

"I am a reporter," said Hallowell.

"We are in the hands of God," announced Lyons with great solemnity, and
folded his hands over his white waistcoat.

At that moment the door slowly swung open and Percy Darrow entered. He was
smoking a cigarette, his hands were thrust deep in his trousers pockets;
he was hatless, and his usually smooth hair was rumpled. A tiny wound
showed just above the middle of his forehead, from which a thin stream of
blood had run down to his eyebrows. He surveyed the room with a humorous
twinkle shining behind his long lashes.

"Well, well, well, well!" he remarked in a cheerful tone of voice. "This
is a nice, jolly, Quaker meeting! Why don't you get out and make a noise
and celebrate, like your friends outside?"

"Thought you'd ducked," remarked Hallowell. The others said nothing, but
looked a grave disapproval.

Darrow laughed.

"No, I had to come back to see how Eldridge is getting on." He cast a
glance at the scientist. "How goes it, old socks?" he inquired.

The man's manner, the tone of his voice, seemed as much out of place in
this atmosphere of solemnity as a penny whistle in a death chamber. Darrow
refused to notice the general attitude of disapproval, but planted himself
in front of Eldridge.

"All in?" he challenged. "Or do you still cherish any delusions that you
will get your man inside of"--he looked at his watch--"eleven minutes?"

A visible stir ran through the room at these words. "Eleven minutes!"
murmured Lyons, and held his watch to his ear. "It has stopped," he said
aloud. "It seems, gentlemen, that the only possible hope for us lies in
the doubt as to whether or not this Unknown will carry out this threat."

"He's a first-rate hand to carry out threats," observed Darrow.

"We have done our best," said Lyons calmly. "Let us compose ourselves to
meet everything--or nothing--as the fates may have decided."

"That's all right," agreed Darrow, with unabated cheerfulness. "But
Eldridge and I had a little agreement, or bet. He bragged he'd get this
Monsieur X before I did. I'd like to know how he feels about his end of
it. Give it up?"

Eldridge looked at him rebukingly.

"I have failed," he acknowledged formally, "from lack of time to carry out
my investigation."

"From lack of brains," said Darrow brutally, "as I believe you once said
in private conversation about my old master, Doctor Schermerhorn. Those
things are remembered. I am delighted to hand this back to you." He eyed
Eldridge, the brilliant smile still curving his lips.

"Enough of this!" cried Lyons with authority. "This is unseemly in the
face of eternity."

Darrow looked again at his watch.

"We have still six minutes, sir; and this is an affair of long standing,
and on which I feel deeply. The score is settled," he said with entire
respect. "I am now at your command. I had intended," he went on in a
frivolous tone again, "to kick to you on my gas bill. It is too large.
You, as responsible head, know it is. But somehow, you know, the presence
here of you gentlemen has disarmed me. You don't need to be here; you all
have the facilities to get away. Here you are! I guess you can charge a
dollar and a quarter for gas if you want to." He looked from one to the
other, while he carefully wiped back the blood that was flowing from the
little wound in his forehead. "Eldridge acknowledges he has failed," he
repeated.

"I fail to see how you have improved upon that failure," snapped Eldridge,
stung.

"No?" queried Darrow. "I call Hallowell to witness that the game has been
fair. We had an even start; the data have been open to both." He raised
his voice a little. "Jack!" he called.

Immediately through the open door from the hall outside came Jack Warford,
leading by the arm a strange and nondescript figure. It was that of a
small, bent, old-looking man, dressed in a faded suit of brown. His hair
was thin, and long, and white; his face sharp and lean. His gaze was fixed
straight before him, so that every one in the room at the same instant
caught the glare of his eyes.

They were fixed, those eyes, like an owl's; or, better, a wildcat's, as
though they never winked. From the pupils, which were very small, the
little light-colored lines radiated across very large blue irises. There
was something baleful and compelling in their glare, so that even
Hallowell, cool customer as he was, forgot immediately all about the man's
littleness and shabbiness and bent figure, and was conscious only of the
cruel, clever, watchful, unrelenting, hostile spirit. As Jack dragged him
forward, the others could see that one foot shambled along the floor.

"Gentlemen," observed Darrow in his most casual tones, "let me present
Monsieur X!"

Every one exclaimed at once. Above the hubbub came Lyons' voice, clear and
commanding.

"The proof!" he thundered. "This is too serious a matter for buffoonery.
The proof!"

Percy Darrow raised his hand. Through the roar of the maddened city the
bell of the Metropolitan tower was beginning its chimes. By the third
stroke the uproar had died almost away. The people were standing still,
awaiting what might come.

The sweet-toned chimes ceased. There succeeded the pause. Then the great
bell began to boom.

_One--two--three--four--five--six_ came its spaced and measured strokes.
The last reverberations sank away. Nothing happened. Percy Darrow let his
hand fall.

"The proof," he repeated, "is that you are still here."

From the night outside rose a wild shriek of rejoicing, stupendous,
overwhelming, passionate. Paige sprang across the room. "Release!" he
shouted fairly in Simmons' ear. The spark crashed. And at a dozen places
simultaneously bulletins flashed; at a dozen other points placarded
balloons arose, on which the search-lights played; so that the people,
hesitating in their flight in thankfulness over finding themselves still
alive, raised their eyes and read:

  Monsieur X is captured. You are safe.

At that a tumult arose, a tumult of rejoicing.

Darrow had sauntered to the window, and was looking out. From the great
height of the Atlas Building he could see abroad over much of the city.
Here and there, like glowing planets, hung the balloons.

"Clever idea," he observed. "I'm glad you thought of it."

Hallowell was on his feet, his eyes shining.

"I've got the only paper on the job!" he fairly shouted. "Darrow, as you
love me, give me the story. Where was he? Where did you get him?"

Darrow turned from the window, and sardonically surveyed Eldridge.

"He was in the office next door," said he, after a moment.


CHAPTER XXII


THE MAN NEXT DOOR

When, three hours previous, Darrow had arisen with the remark before
chronicled, Jack Warford had followed him in the expectation of a long
expedition. To the young man's surprise it lasted just to the hall. There
Darrow stopped before the blank door of an apparently unused office. Into
the lock of this he cautiously fitted a key, manipulated it for a moment,
and turned to Jack with an air of satisfaction.

"You have your gun with you?" he asked.

Jack patted his outside pocket.

"Very well, now listen here: I am going to leave the key in the lock. If
you hear me whistle sharply, get in as quickly as you know how, and get to
shooting. Shoot to kill. If it happens to be dark and you can not make us
out, shoot both. Take no chances. On your quickness and your accuracy may
depend the lives of the whole city. Do you understand?"

"I understand," said Jack steadily. "Are you sure you can make yourself
heard above all this row?"

Darrow nodded, and slipped inside the door.

He found the office chamber unlighted save by the subdued illumination
that came in around the drawn shades of the window. Against the dimness he
could just make out the gleaming of batteries in rows. An ordinary deal
table supported a wireless sender. A figure stood before the darkened
window, the figure of a little, old, bent man facing as though looking
out. Through the closed casement the roar of the panic-stricken city
sounded like a flood. The old man was in the attitude of one looking out
intently. Once he raised both arms, the fists clenched, high above his
head.

Darrow stole forward as quietly as he could. When he was about half-way
across the room the old man turned and saw him. For the briefest instant
he stared at the intruder; then, with remarkable agility, cast himself
toward the table on which stood the wireless sender. Darrow, too, sprang
forward. They met across the table. Darrow clutched the old man's wrists.

Immediately began a desperate and silent trial of strength. The old man
developed an unexpected power. The table lay between them, prohibiting a
closer grip. Inch by inch, impelled by the man's iron will, his hand
forced his way toward the sending key. Darrow put forth all his strength
to prevent. There was no violent struggle, no noise; simply the pressure
of opposing forces. Gradually the scientist's youth prevailed against the
older man's desperation. The hand creeping toward the sender came to a
stop. Then, all at once, the older man's resistance collapsed entirely.
Darrow swept his arm back, stepped around the table, and drew his
opponent, almost unresisting, back to the window.

"Jack!" he called.

At the sound of his voice the old man gathered his last vitality in a
tremendous effort to jerk loose from his captor. Catching Darrow unawares,
he almost succeeded in getting free. The flash was too brief. He managed
only to rap the young man's head rather sharply against a shade-fitting of
the window.

The outer door jerked open, and Jack Warford leaped into the room,
revolver in hand. Darrow called an instant warning.

"All right!" he shouted. "Turn on the light, next to you somewhere. Shut
the door."

These orders were obeyed. The electric flared. By its light the office was
seen to be quite empty save for a cabinet full of books and papers; rows
and rows of battery jars; the receiving and sending apparatus of a
wireless outfit; the deal table, and one wooden chair. Darrow looked
around keenly.

"That's all right, Jack," said he. "Just get around here cautiously and
raise the window shade. Look out you don't get near that table. That's it.
Now just help me get this man a little away from the table! Good! Now, tie
him up. No, bring over the chair. Tie him in that chair. Gently. That's
all right. Whew!"

"You're hurt," said Jack.

Darrow touched his forehead.

"A bump," he said briefly. "Well, Jack, my son, we've done it!"

"You don't mean to say--" cried Jack.

Darrow nodded.

"Now, my friend," he addressed the huddled figure in the chair, "the game
is up. You are caught, and you must realize it." He surveyed the captive
thoughtfully. "Tell me, who are you?" he added. "I should know you, for
you are a great discoverer."

The old man stared straight at his interlocutor with his expressionless
eyes, behind which no soul, no mind, no vitality even seemed to lie.

Darrow asked him several more questions, to which he received no replies.
The man sat like a captured beast.

"I'm sorry," said Darrow to Jack. "I should like to have talked with him.
Such a man is worth knowing; he has delved deep."

"He'll talk yet, when he gets over his grouch," Jack surmised.

But Darrow shook his head.

"The man is imbecile," he said. "He has been mentally unbalanced; and his
disorder has grown on him lately. When I drove back his wrist just now the
cord snapped in his brain."

Jack turned to stare at the captive.

"By Jove, I believe you're right!" said he at last.

Darrow was standing looking down on the deal table.

"Come here, Jack," said he. "I want you to look at the deadliest engine of
destruction ever invented or wielded by mortal man. I suspect that if you
were to reach out your hand and hold down the innocent-looking telegraph
key there you would instantly destroy every living creature in this city."

Jack turned a little pale, and put both hands behind him.

Darrow laughed. "Feel tempted?" he inquired.

"Makes me a little dizzy, like being on a height," confessed Jack. "How's
the trick turned?"

"I don't know," said Darrow. "I'm going to find out if I can."

Without attempting to touch anything, he proceeded to examine carefully
every detail of the apparatus.

"The batteries are nothing extraordinary, except in strength," he told
Jack, "and as near as I can make out the instrument is like any other. It
must be some modification in the sending apparatus, some system of
'tuning', perhaps--it's only a surmise. We'll just disconnect the
batteries," he concluded, "before we go to monkeying."

He proceeded carefully and methodically to carry out his expressed
intention. When he had finished the task he heaved a deep sigh of relief.

"I'm glad you feel that way, too," said Jack. "I didn't know what might
not happen."

"Me, either," confessed Darrow. "But now I think we're safe."

