She was vaguely aware that he halted for a moment, as if undecided as
to his action, while Norris retired, softly closing the door. Then, with
a sudden leap of the heart, she was conscious that he was coming towards
her across the shadowed room.

He moved straight forward until he was close beside her; and, with one
of his decisive, imperious gestures, he put out both hands and caught
hers.

"It was a case of Mohammed and the mountain!" he said, in his grave
voice. "You wouldn't come to me; I _had_ to come to you."

No sound escaped her. She stood before him mutely, her face paling and
flushing, her hands fluttering in his.

There was a slight pause; and again he bent towards her.

"Why have you stayed away?"

She hesitated for a moment, spellbound by her emotion; then, making a
sudden effort, she looked up. "I--I was afraid." Her voice was so low
and shaken that the words were a mere whisper.

"Afraid? Afraid of what?"

She made no answer.

"Of what? Of Bale-Corphew?" He gave a slight, sarcastic laugh.

"No!" She looked up sharply. "Oh no!"

"Then of what? Of me?" His voice suddenly sank, and the pressure of his
fingers tightened.

"No! Oh, I don't know! I don't know!" With a tremulous gesture she tried
to withdraw her hands.

At the movement, he suddenly drew her towards him. "Tell me!" he said.
"I want to know. I must know!"

For the first time since he had entered the room, her glance rested
fully on his face. The light was uncertain, but as her gaze concentrated
itself, a new look--a look of wonder and alarm--sprang across her eyes.
In the seven days since they had spoken together, a change had fallen
on him. Some alteration she could not define had grown into his
expression; the cold mastery of himself and others was still visible;
but a new emotion had insensibly been created--something powerful and
even dominant--for which she could find no name. With a sharp,
instinctive alarm, her lips parted.

"What is it?" she said, apprehensively. "Why are you here? The time has
not come for you to go out into the world?"

A faintly ironic smile flitted across his lips.

"Surely, if one is a Prophet, one can alter even prophecies."

He said the words deliberately, looking down into her face.

The tone, the intentional flippancy of the words, came to her with a
shock. It was as if, by considered action, he had set about jeopardizing
his own dignity. A chill of undefined apprehension blew across her mind
like a cold wind.

"I--I don't understand," she stammered. "How did you get here? How did
you get away?"

Again his keen eyes searched hers.

"As for getting away," he said, slowly, "when a Prophet has a Precursor,
he should be able to arrange these things. Five o'clock is a dull hour
at Hellier Crescent. The Arch-Mystics are perusing the Scitsym; the
Precursor is guarding the sacred threshold of the Prophet; the Prophet
is--presumably--communing with his Soul. The routine of this evening
differs in no way from the routine of any other evening--except that the
Precursor is rather more than usually vigilant in his watch." Again the
forced flippancy was apparent; and to Enid, staring at him with wide,
perplexed eyes, there was something inexplicable and alarming in this
new and unfamiliar attitude. With a tremor of foreboding, her glance
travelled over his face.

"Has anything happened?" she asked. "Have the People done wrong? Have
you--have you been called elsewhere?" At the last dread possibility her
voice faltered.

But the Prophet stood cold and almost rigid. At last, by an immense
effort, he seemed to gather himself together for some tremendous end.

"Enid," he said, gravely, "I don't know how much you know of life, but I
presume you know very little. I presume that--and shall act on the
presumption. I shall not expect--even ask--any leniency of you.

"I came here this evening to tell you something that will alter your
opinion of me so effectually that nothing hereafter can reinstate me in
your mind." He spoke slowly and deliberately, without tremor or falter.
Whatever of struggle lay behind his words, it lay with the past. It was
evident as he stood there in the pretty, luxurious room, that he
possessed a purpose, and that he held to it without thought of a
retrograde step.

"I have come to make a confession," he said, quietly. "Not because I
believe in the habit of unburdening one's conscience, but because there
is something you have a right to know--"

"I--? A right to know?" Her lips paled.

"Yes. A right to know." With a sudden access of feeling he dropped her
hands and turned towards the window, where the last glimmer of the
wintry twilight showed through the soft silk curtains.

"I am putting myself in your hands," he said, steadily. "I am
jeopardizing myself utterly by what I am going to say; but it seems to
me the only way by which I can make--well, can patch up some poor
amends--

"I may be presumptuous, but I believe--I think--that I have stood for
something in your eyes." He turned and looked at her. But in the mingled
dusk and firelight only the pale outline of her face was visible.

"Enid!" he cried, with sudden resolution, "it must be faced. It must be
said. I'm not what you think me. I'm a fraud--a lie--an impostor. No
more a Prophet--no more inspired than you--or Bale-Corphew!" He stopped
abruptly and drew a slow, deep breath.

The pause that followed was long and strained. In the grip of strong
emotions, each stood rigid, striving vainly to read the other's face. At
last, goaded by the silence, he spoke again.

"You have done this!" he cried. "You have compelled me to tell you! I
came to these people; I duped them--and gloried in duping them. I
despised them, understood them, traded on them without a scruple. Then
you came. You came--and the scheme was shattered. The whole thing, that
had bubbled and sparkled, became suddenly like flat champagne. That is a
common simile, but it is descriptive. The acting of an actor depends
upon his audience. While my audience was composed of fools, I fooled
them; but when you came--you with your scepticism, your curiosity, your
feminine dependency--I lost my cue. I became conscious of the footlights
and the make-up." Again he paused; and again he endeavored to read her
face. His manner was still restrained, but below his calm were the
stirrings of a deep agitation. There was tense anxiety in the set of his
lips, an inordinate anticipation in the keenness of his eyes. For a
space he stood waiting; then, as she made no effort towards response, he
stepped to her side.

"Say something!" he exclaimed. "Speak to me! I am waiting for you to
speak."

With a low, frightened murmur she drew back, extending her hands, as if
to ward him off.

The sound and the movement stung him to action. With a speed that might
have been construed into fear, he came still nearer.

"Enid!" he said. "Enid!"

But again she retreated involuntarily.

"Oh, why did you do it?" she exclaimed, suddenly, in a faint, shaken
voice. "Oh, why did you do it? Why did you do it?"

For an instant her tone and her manner daunted him; then he straightened
his body and raised his head.

"I did it for what is reckoned the most sordid motive in the world," he
said, in a level voice. "I did it for money!"

"For money?" With a scared movement she turned upon him, and for the
first time since he had made his revelation, he saw her pale, alarmed,
incredulous face in the full light of the fire.

"I was wronged!" he said, sharply. "These people had defrauded me. I
wanted what was justly mine."

"Wanted?" The word formed itself almost inarticulately.

"Yes; wanted. Wanted with all my might. I have worked, schemed, suffered
for this in ways you could never imagine. I thought myself invincible.
I believed that if the devil himself stood in my way it would not deter
me. And now you--a frail girl--have wrecked the scheme!" He paused
again, leaning towards her in sudden unconscious appeal for
comprehension.

"I won't say it hasn't been a struggle to come to you like this--to make
my confession. It has. My conscience and I have been struggling night
and day. I have held out to the last. It was only to-day--this very
day--when I woke to face the crisis of my plans, that I knew I was
beaten--knew the fight was over.

"And do you understand why this has happened? Do you know why I am going
away as empty-handed as I came? It is because I have seen you--because I
love you--"

He put out his hands. But as his fingers touched her, she thrust him
away, freeing herself with fierce resentment.

"Don't! don't! don't!" she cried. "You call yourself an impostor--You
are worse than that. Much worse. You are a thief!"

He stepped back as though she had struck him, and his hands dropped to
his sides.

"Yes, you are a thief!" she said again, hysterically; "a thief!"

The repetition of the word goaded him.

"Wait! Let me defend myself!"

But with a broken sound of protest she flung her hands over her ears.

"No! no! no!" she cried, vehemently. "There is no defence to make. There
is no defence. You may leave the money of the sect, but you have stolen
things that can never be replaced. Faith--hopes--ideals--" Her voice
failed her.

"Mistaken faith--mistaken ideals--" He caught her wrists, drawing her
hands downward.

But again she freed herself and confronted him with blazing eyes and a
face marred by tears and emotion.

"Nothing is mistaken that lifts one up--that helps one to live. Oh, you
don't knew what you have done! You don't know! I thought you so
noble--so great--and now--"

"Now I am condemned unheard."

"Unheard? Do you think words could change anything? There is only one
thing I wish for now--never, never to see you again as long as either of
us live!" With each word her voice rose, and on the last it broke with
an excited sob.

While she had been speaking the Prophet's face had become very pale. He
turned to her now with a manner that was preternaturally quiet.

"Very well!" he said. "I understand! But there is no need for you to
trouble. All our arrangements are made--have been made for months. We
attend the Gathering to-night; and afterwards, when Hellier Crescent is
quiet, we go--as unobtrusively as we came. You see I give you the key to
our plans; you are free to frustrate them, if you think fit. I don't
believe I had any real hope of merciful judgment when I came here--women
are not merciful when they are robbed of their illusions. But I confess
I hoped for justice. I thought that you might hate me--"

"Hate you?" she cried. "Hate you? We only hate what we respect. I don't
hate you. I only despise you with all my heart. I want you to go before
I despise myself as well!" Her own cruel disillusioning--her own
unbearable sense of loss--swept over her afresh; her voice rose again,
and again broke hysterically. With an uncontrolled movement of grief and
mortification she turned away from him and threw herself upon a couch,
burying her face in the pillows.

For several minutes she cried tempestuously; then through the storm of
her angry tears she caught the sound of a closing door. With a start
she sat up and looked about her.

The faint relic of daylight still showed through the curtains of the
window; the firelight still played pleasantly on the untouched tea-table
and the fragile furniture; but the room was empty. The Prophet was
gone.


CHAPTER VIII


When she realized this fact, Enid rose from her seat with a murmur of
dismay. In her sharply feminine sense of loss, she took one involuntary
step towards the door; but almost as the step was taken, her anger, her
shattered faith assailed her anew, and, with a fresh burst of tears she
turned and flung herself back upon the couch.

For a long time she lay with her face among the pillows; then, at last,
as her angry sobs died out and the violence of her grief subsided, she
sat up, wiped her eyes, and glanced at her dripping handkerchief.

[Illustration: "WITH A FRESH BURST OF TEARS, SHE TURNED AND FLUNG
HERSELF UPON THE COUCH"]

At sight of the handkerchief--a mere wisp of wet cambric--her sense of
injury stung her afresh, and once more her lips began to quiver; but
fate had decided against further tears. Before her grief had gathered
force, the bell of the hall-door sounded once more long and loudly; and
hard upon the sound the door of the room opened.

With a start of confusion she sprang to her feet, and turned to confront
Norris, standing at a discreet distance, with an apologetic manner and
downcast eyes.

"Mr. Bale-Corphew, ma'am," she murmured, as Enid looked at her. "I told
him you were not at home; but he said he would wait till whenever he
could see you, it didn't matter how long."

With a little cry of dismay and annoyance, Enid put her hands to her
disordered hair.

"Oh, how stupid of you!" she cried, tremulously. "You know I can't see
him. You know I won't see him. Tell him I'm out--ill--anything you can
think of--" But her voice suddenly faltered, and her words ended in a
gasp, as she glanced from the servant to the door, which had abruptly
reopened, displaying the face and figure of Bale-Corphew himself.

Without hesitation he had entered the room; and without hesitation he
walked straight towards her.

"Forgive me!" he exclaimed. "I know this must seem unpardonable; but the
occasion is without precedent. May I speak with you alone?"

In the moment of his entry, and during his hurried greeting, Enid had
mastered her agitation. She looked at him now with an attempt at
calmness.

"Certainly, if you have anything to say."

In the excitement under which he was obviously laboring, he did not
observe the coldness of the granted permission. He waited with
ill-concealed impatience until Norris had withdrawn, then he turned to
her afresh.

"Mrs. Witcherley!" he cried, "you see before you an outraged man!"

He made the announcement fiercely and theatrically; but, to any ear, it
would have been evident that, below the instinctive desire for dramatic
effect, his voice trembled with genuine agitation--his speech was
charged with violent feeling. To Enid, watching him with surprise and
curiosity, it was patent at a glance that some circumstance, strange in
its occurrence or vital in its issue, had shaken him to the base of his
emotional nature. And as she looked at him her own coldness, her own
humiliation, suddenly forsook her.

"What is it?" she cried, involuntarily. "What is it? Something has
happened?"

For one moment his answer was delayed--held back by the torrent of words
that rushed to his lips; then, at last, as his tongue freed itself, he
threw out his hands in a fierce gesture.

"Outrage! Outrage and sacrilege!" he cried. "We have been
duped--deceived--tricked. We, the Chosen--the Elect!"

"Duped? Deceived?" She echoed the words, faintly. "What do you mean?
What has happened?"

"Everything! Everything!" Again he threw out his hands. "This man that
we have called Prophet--this man that we have bent the knee to--he is
nothing; nothing--" Once more emotion overpowered his words.

"Nothing?" Enid's voice was indistinct, her tongue dry.

"--Nothing but an impostor! An impostor! A thief!"

He spoke loudly--even violently. To his listener it seemed that his
voice rang out, filling the room, filling the street outside, filling
the whole world. As she had done in the Prophet's presence, she raised
her hands and pressed them over her ears. But, even through her fingers,
his tones came loud and penetrating.

"An impostor!" he cried, again. "A liar! A blasphemer!"

Her hands dropped from her face.

"Stop! Stop!" she cried, weakly.

But he was beyond appeal.

"You must hear!" he cried. "It is ordained. You have been the unwitting
instrument by which the man has fallen."

"I? I? The instrument?" She stared at him with wide eyes and a white
face.

"Yes, you!" He stepped to her side. "Without you, suspicion would never
have been aroused. Without you, he might have carried out his base
designs. It was the power of the Unseen that guided me on the day I
entered the Presence Room and found you alone with him." He spoke
hurriedly and disjointedly, but as the last word left his lips another
expression crossed his face, as though a new suggestion passed through
his mind.

"Did you see nothing strange in that Audience?" he demanded. "Did you
see nothing strange in the fact that he--a Prophet of Sublime
Mysteries--should hold your hand, as any man of the earth might hold
it?" He bent still closer, jealousy and suspicion darkening his face.

Enid glanced at him fearfully. "No! No!" she said, sharply. "I--saw
nothing strange. He was the Prophet."

Bale-Corphew's face relaxed.

"Ah!" he said, slowly. "I believe you. But, if _you_ were blind, _I_
saw." He paused and passed his handkerchief over his face. Cold as the
day was, drops of perspiration stood upon his forehead.

"I saw. And from that hour the man was lost."

"Lost?"

"Yes, lost." He laughed excitedly; and to Enid the laugh sounded
singularly unpleasant, sharp, and cruel. "From that day we have watched
him--we, the Six. We have watched him and his friend--the dog who has
dared to desecrate the name of Precursor. We have watched them night
and day; we have seen them, listened to them hour after hour, while they
believed themselves unobserved--?"

"And what do you know? What have you learned?" There was a strange
faintness in the tone of her voice.

"Everything. Only yesterday we touched the key-stone of their scheme.
To-night--this very night--they have planned an escape. They will attend
as usual in the Place; they will fool us as they have fooled us before;
and then, when the house is quiet--when the Six are at rest, exhausted
by prayer and meditation--they will accomplish their vile work. They
will plunder the Treasury of the Unseen!"

"Oh no! No!" With a swift movement she turned to him.

He looked at her for an instant, of silence, and then again the
unpleasant, excited laugh escaped him.

"You are right," he cried, suddenly. "What you say is right. There will
be no plunder. The Treasury of the Unseen will remain inviolate!"

As he paused she made no sound; but her eyes rested upon his, fascinated
by their feverish brightness; and in the midst of her silent regard he
spoke again, bending forward until his lips approached her ear.

"They have laid their plans," he whispered, with a sudden and savage
exultation, "but we also have laid ours. And even we cannot reckon upon
the consequences. The spiritual enthusiast is not easy to hold in check,
once he has been aroused!"

Enid stared at him, the pupils of her eyes dilated, her lips pale.

"You mean--? You mean--?" she stammered; then her fear found voice.
"What do you mean?" she demanded, in sharp, alarmed tones.

Bale-Corphew met her question, steadily.

"I mean," he said, with fierce vindictiveness, "that at the Gathering
to-night he will be publicly denounced!"

He made the declaration slowly, and each word fell with overwhelming
weight upon his companion's understanding. As in the bewildered mazes of
a nightmare she saw the crowded chapel, the fanatical, unstable faces of
the congregation, the six Arch-Mystics--outraged, incensed, unrelenting;
and in their midst the Prophet, tall and grave and masterful, as she had
seen him a hundred times. One man facing a sea of ungoverned emotion! At
the vision her heart swelled suddenly and her soul sickened. With a
gesture, almost as passionate as his own, she turned upon Bale-Corphew.

"You would denounce him before the People?" she said, incredulously.
"You would trap him? One man against a hundred! Oh, it would be
cowardly! Cruel!"

Bale-Corphew's face flamed to a deeper red.

"Cowardly? Cowardly? Do you know what you are saying? The man is a
thief!"

For one moment she shrank before the epithet; the next she raised her
head, her eyes flashing, her lips parted.

"You have no right to use that word. You have not seen him steal."

"Seen him? No. But the ears are as reliable as the eyes, and we have
heard him declare that he intends to steal."

"Intends! Intends! Intentions are not acts." In her deep agitation, she
turned upon him with a new demeanor.

"Oh, be merciful!" she cried. "Give him the benefit of mercy. Wait till
the Assembly is over, and then accuse him. If you can prove your
accusation, then justice can be done. On the other hand--"

"The other hand?" Again Bale-Corphew's cruel laugh broke from him. "He
has not shrunk from lies--from imposture--from blasphemy. Is it likely
he will shrink from his reward? Oh no! We will run no risks. The trap
has closed. No one will gain access to him to-night until the hour of
the Gathering has arrived. It will be my special--my sacred--duty to
watch and guard." As he spoke his eyes seemed to devour her face, and
before the expression in their depths her strength faltered.

"And why have you come here?" she asked, unsteadily. "Why have you come
here? What has this to do with me?"

As she put the questions, he watched her closely; and when her voice
quivered, a spasm of emotion--a wave of jealousy and suspicion--swept
his face.

"Can you ask that question?" he demanded.

Enid wavered.

"Why not?" she murmured. "Why should I not?"

"Why not?" He laughed again, suddenly and savagely. "Because the man
loves you. Because he stole out of the house to-day--and came here to
you. I tracked him here and tracked him back again."

Enid shrank away from him.

"So--so you are a spy?" she said, in a confused, uneven voice.

He turned instantly, his passions aflame.

"A spy?" he cried. "I am a spy? Very well! We will see who comes out
victor. The thief or the spy." His voice rose, his face darkened. The
demon of jealousy that had pursued him for seven days was free of the
leash at last.

"I wanted to know this," he exclaimed. "I wanted to be sure. I had my
suspicions, but I wanted proof. On the day I surprised you with him, I
suspected; to-day, when I saw him enter this house, I felt convinced--"

"Convinced of what?"

"Convinced that there is more in this matter than his love for you. That
there is also--"

With a swift movement Enid stopped him. She was quivering violently, but
she held her head high.

"Yes," she said, distinctly. "Yes, you are quite right. There is more in
this matter than his love for me. There is also my love for him!"

Her eyes were blazing; her heart was beating fast. With an agitation
equal to Bale-Corphew's own she moved to the fireplace and pressed the
bell.

When the servant appeared she turned to her.

"Norris," she said, in a quiet voice, "show Mr. Bale-Corphew out."


CHAPTER IX


There are few phases of human existence more interesting than that in
which a young and sensitive woman is compelled by circumstances to cast
aside the pleasant artifices, the carefully modulated emotions of a
sheltered life, and to face the realities of fact and feeling.

For twenty-three years Enid Witcherley had played with existence--toying
with it, enjoying it, as an epicure enjoys a rare wine or a choice
morsel of food prepared for his appreciation. Now, as she stood alone in
her small drawing-room with its costly decorations, its feminine
atmosphere, she was conscious for the first time that the banquet of
life is not in reality a display of delicate viands and tempting
vintages, but a meal of common bread--sweet or bitter as destiny
decrees. She saw this, and with a flash of comprehension knew and
acknowledged that her heart and her brain cried out for the wholesome
necessary food.

An hour ago, when the Prophet had stood before her and made his
confession, she had been overwhelmed by the tide of her own feelings; in
the rush of humiliation and disappointment--in the tremendous knowledge
that the image she had called gold was in reality but clay--she had been
too mortified to see beyond her own horizon. In that moment their places
in the drama had been indisputably allotted. She herself had appeared
the unoffending heroine, unjustly humiliated in her own eyes and in the
eyes of others; he had stood out, in unpardonable guise, the cause--the
instrument--of that humiliation. In the bitter knowledge she had
confronted him unrelentingly. A spoiled child--an unreasoning feminine
egoist.

But now that moment, with its instructive and primitive emotions, was
passed by what seemed months--years--a century. By a process of mind as
swift as it was subtle, the child had grown into a woman--the egoist had
become conscious of another existence. With the entrance of
Bale-Corphew--with the sound of her own denunciation upon his lips--a
new feeling had awakened within her--a feeling stronger than
humiliation, stronger than pride. It had risen, blinding and dazzling
her, as a great light might blind and dazzle; and she stood glorified
and exalted within its radiance.

As the door had closed upon her second visitor, a long sobbing sigh of
excitement, of tumultuous joy and fear shook her from head to foot; she
involuntarily drew her figure to its full height, and covered her face
with both hands, as though to ward off the light that lay across her
world.

But the great moment of joy and comprehension could not last; other and
more insistent factors were at work within her mind--claiming, even
demanding attention. Almost as the outer door closed upon Bale-Corphew,
her hands dropped to her sides and an expression akin to terror crossed
her eyes. With a mind rendered supersensitive by its own emotions, she
realized what the next five hours might hold; and like a tangible menace
the dark, angry face of the Arch-Mystic flashed back upon her
consciousness.

While he had been present in the room, while his turbulent voice had
filled her ears, she had been only partly alive to the threatened
danger; but now that his presence had been removed, now that she was
free to sift the meaning of his words, their full significance was borne
in upon her. With an alarming clearness of vision, she recognized that
behind his threats lay a definite meaning; that the man himself, at all
times passionate, and, on occasion, violent in temperament, had
suddenly become a danger--something as fierce and menacing as an
uncontrolled element.

She realized and understood this rapidly, as only the mind knows and
comprehends in moments of stress and crisis; and before her knowledge,
all ideas save one fell away like chaff before the wind. At all
costs--in face of every obstacle--she must warn and save the Prophet!

With a start of apprehension, she glanced at the clock and saw that the
hands marked ten minutes to seven. Moving to the fireplace, she once
more pressed the bell; and as Norris answered, turned to her, heedless
for perhaps the first time in her life of outward appearances.

"Get me my long black cloak, Norris," she said. "And a black hat and
veil. I am going out."

Norris's face expressed no surprise.

"You will be back to dinner, ma'am?" she inquired.

"No. I shall not want dinner. I may not be back till ten--perhaps
eleven. If I am late, no one need wait up." She walked to a mirror and
began nervously smoothing her ruffled hair, while Norris left the room,
and returned with the desired garments.

With the same nervous haste she put on her hat, tied the thick veil over
her face, and allowed herself to be helped into her cloak. Then, without
a word, she crossed the drawing-room, passed through the hall of the
flat, and entered the lift.

At the street-door she was compelled to wait while the hall-porter
called a cab; and the momentary delay almost overtaxed her patience. An
audible sound of relief escaped her when the clatter of hoofs and jingle
of bells announced that the wait was over.

"St. George's Terrace!" she ordered, in a low voice, and it seemed to
her perturbed mind that even the stolid attendant must find something
portentous in the words; then she sank into the corner of the cab and
closed her eyes, as she heard her order repeated to the cabman, and felt
the horse swing forward into the stream of traffic.

More than once she altered her position as the distance between
Knightsbridge and St. George's Terrace lessened. She was devoured by
impatience and yet paralyzed by dread. Once, as the cab halted in a
block of traffic, she heard a clock strike seven, and at the sound the
blood rushed to her face as she thought of the nearness of her ordeal;
but an instant later she drew out her watch to verify the time, and
paled with sudden apprehension as she realized that the clock was slow.

So her mind oscillated until the cab drew up beside the curb; and, with
a nervous start, she heard the cabman open the trap-door.

"What number, lady?" he asked.

[Illustration: "HER HAND WAS TREMBLING AS SHE RAISED THE HEAVY KNOCKER"]

She answered almost guiltily: "No number! Just stop here! Put me down
here!" She rose, gathering her long cloak about her.

Try as she might, she could not control her excitement, as she crossed
the roadway and entered Hellier Crescent after a week's absence. Her
hand was trembling as she raised the heavy knocker on the familiar door;
and her voice shook as she repeated the necessary formula.

There was a slight delay--a slight hesitancy on the part of the
door-keeper; then the slide, which had opened at her knock, closed with
a click, and the massive door swung back.

She stepped forward eagerly, but on the moment that she entered the hall
her heart sank. With a thrill of apprehension she saw that in place of
the humble member of the congregation who usually attended there, the
tall, fair-bearded Arch-Mystic known as George Norov was guarding the
door. Small though the incident might appear, it conveyed to her, as no
spoken declaration could have done, the spirit of action and vigilance
reigning in the House.

While the thought flashed through her mind, Norov surveyed her from his
great height.

"You are in good time, my child; the Gathering is for eight o'clock."

She looked up at him.

"Yes," she said, quickly. "I know it is for eight o'clock, but I have
come early. I have come because I wish--" Her courage faltered before
the intent, searching gaze of his blue eyes.

"I have come," she added, with gathered resolution, "because I desire
private Audience with the Prophet--because there is something on my Soul
of which I must unburden myself."

The Arch-Mystic looked at her and his eyes seemed cold as steel.

"The Prophet holds private Audience only in the morning," he replied, in
an even voice.

Enid flushed.

"I know that. But there are exceptions to the rule--"

The Arch-Mystic shook his head.

"The Prophet holds private Audience only in the morning."

"But the Prophet is generous. Five minutes alone with him will satisfy
me--three minutes--two minutes--" Her tone quickened as her anxiety
increased.

Still Norov's blue eyes met hers unswervingly.

"The Prophet holds private Audience only in the morning."

