I should advise the amateur who is dealing with only a few thousand fish
to work on a smaller scale in these proportions, and to make these
changes gradually, and yet more gradually as the season advances. 
Accordingly, only the last paragraph of Colonel Parke's report is correct;
and if your Excellency would take the trouble to question and examine
the families now in your hands--as requested in my former letter--your
Excellency would easily ascertain the true facts.Late in the autumn is, in my opinion, the best time to put the young
fish into the water they are to inhabit permanently. It must be a
mistake to rear them artificially longer than is necessary, and by the
end of November they should be fairly capable of looking after
themselves.

Trout, which are artificially reared on chopped meat and other soft
foods, suffer from a lack of development in the stomach walls, and also,
probably, in the rest of their digestive apparatus. The first case I saw
of the stomach of an artificially reared trout was a two-year-old
trout, upon which Dr. C. S. Patterson performed an autopsy. The stomach
walls were as thin as a sheet of tissue paper. At the time I believed,
and, if I remember rightly, he also thought that this was due to
atrophy, but I am inclined to think that this idea was only partially
correct. The stomach walls of the autumn yearling trout, which is
artificially reared on soft food, do not show any marked abnormality in
the way of thinness; but as the trout's age increases, so does the
thickness of the stomach wall decrease in proportion to its size. This
leads me to believe that the development of the stomach wall, at any
rate, and probably also of the glands secreting the gastric juice and
the digestive apparatus generally, gradually ceases when at about the
age of eight or nine months if the trout is fed upon soft food.
Probably, also, a certain amount of atrophy and dilatation of the
stomach wall is produced. If my observations are correct, so also is the
conclusion that a trout which cannot digest hard food, of which a great
part of his natural food consists, will not have a really fair chance
when turned out. Therefore, I say, turn out your trout in November,
unless you can feed them on such food as shrimps, snails, bivalves and
_Corixæ_; and if you stock with "ready made" fish, stock with yearlings
in the late autumn.

The turning out of his fish in November will also allow the amateur
plenty of time to prepare his ponds and apparatus for next year's
operations. If the ponds are made on a stream, probably the very best
place that can be chosen is where there is a fairly sharp bend in the
stream just below a fall. An artificial fall can often be made where the
banks are high by damming up the stream several feet. Care must be
taken, however, to avoid any risk of the ponds being flooded.


CHAPTER V

TROUT. Since I construe from your Excellency's letter that Harber and his
corps are recognised as attached to His Majesty's forces, His
Majesty's officers must be held responsible for the acts of the
said Harber and his kaffir hordes.

A three-inch pipe will be large enough for a pond thirty feet long,
three feet wide, and two feet deep at the deepest part. It is a good
thing for the water to fall, some inches at any rate, through the air
before it reaches the pond, and in a series of ponds with only one
supply, the water should flow through an open trough with stones and
other impediments in it, between the ponds. The ponds may be lined
entirely with brickwork faced with cement, and in this case the sides
should be made perpendicular. The cement should, however, be exposed
freely to the action of the running water for a couple of months at
least before any ova or fry are introduced.

--Mr. GEORGE TERRELL, always a little inclined to look upon the black
side of things, was apprehensive about the spread of Bolshevism in
this country. Not so Lord HENRY BENTINCK, who genially exploded with "Is
not Bolshevism in this country a pure bogey?"It is
advisable if possible to make the outlet at the level of the bottom of
the pond, if the pond is lined with cement, but if the pond is only
cemented at the ends, it is better to have one in mid-water or even near
the surface. As I have said before however, an outlet should be made at
the level lowest part of the bottom, so as to facilitate the emptying of
the pond. The pond should however be made shallower at the lower end.
Fig. 2 shows a section of the upper end, and Fig. 3 of the lower end of
such a pond.

[Illustration: Fig. 1.]

[Illustration: Fig. 2.]

[Illustration: Fig. 3.]

The open trough between ponds in a series should be at least three yards
in length, but it is better if not straight. Stones and gravel should be
put in these troughs in order to make the water as rough as possible,
and if some fresh-water shrimps can be introduced so much the better.

If the water is taken from a stream, a leaf screen must be placed at
some distance in front of the inlet. This may be made of a hurdle
fastened to strong stakes sunk into the bed of the stream. The opening
of the inlet should be at least double the size of the sectional area of
the pipe through which the water is carried to the ponds, and should be
some distance, a couple of feet if possible, below the surface of the
water. It is a good thing to put a wire cage over the inlet, and under
this a perforated zinc screen is necessary. The inlet from the stream
should be so placed that it is easy to get at and clean. The best form
of covering for the inlet into the pond I have seen, is a zinc cylinder,
the base of which fits over the end of the inlet pipe. The part of this
cylinder, which projects 18 inches beyond the pipe, is perforated, as is
also the flat end. This can easily be taken off and cleaned, and breaks
up the water, making it fall into the pond like a shower bath, causing
considerable aeration.

The inlet from the stream should have a trap with which the water may be
shut off, as also should the outlet from the pond. When the cylinder on
the inlet into the pond is taken off for a minute or so to be cleaned
out, both these traps must be closed. This lessens the chance of any
creatures likely to do harm getting in during the cleaning. The
perforated zinc screen at the inlet from the stream will probably stop
any such creatures, but too great care cannot be exercised, and it is
always best to be on the safe side.

Movable covers of netting over the ponds are most certainly advisable,
particularly if the rearing ponds are in an unfrequented spot near a
stream. On one occasion I caught four kingfishers during a period of
three weeks, all of which had in some way got under some herring net,
which was pegged out carefully over a rearing pond containing trout fry.
I never found out how they got in, but once in they were unable to
escape.

Ponds such as I have described are of course for the fry when they have
reached a certain size, and have already begun to feed well. Other
appliances are necessary for hatching out the ova and for the young fish
when first hatched. A very good apparatus may be made from a champagne
case. This should have large square holes sawn through each end, leaving
enough wood to ensure strength and solidity to the box. The box should
then have two coats of asphalt varnish, and the square apertures covered
with fine perforated zinc. Everything has been done which the conditions
of a state of war allowed to provide for the well-being of the women
and children; but as you complain of that treatment and must,
therefore, be in a position to provide for them, I have the honour
to inform you that all women and children at present in our camps
who are willing to leave will be sent to your care, and I shall be
happy to be informed where you desire that they should be handed
over to you.

I have addressed a reply to His Honour Schalk Burger in the above
sense.

The trays should be suspended in the
boxes, and the boxes in the ponds close to the inlets, so that a good
current of water may flow through them. The bottom of the boxes should
be covered with a thick layer of gravel, but the trays are to be used
without gravel. It is advisable to have as much grass as possible round
the ponds, and such trees as willows and alders should also be planted
round them. Willows and alder sticks planted in the early part of the
year come into leaf in the same spring, and afford shade to the young
fish in the summer. Some suitable weeds should also be grown in the
rearing ponds. Water-cress, water-celery, water-lobelia, starwort, and
water-milfoil, are all good. They should be arranged, however, so as to
prevent as much as possible the little fish finding hiding places, and
it is for this reason also that I have recommended slightly sloping
banks when the sides of the ponds are not made of cement. The weeds
should be planted some time before the little fish are turned out of
the boxes.

Finally, I must caution my readers again on one or two points before I
leave the subject of the hatching trays, rearing boxes, and ponds.
Enamel, varnish, or charr all woodwork thoroughly, leaving no speck of
wood bare and no crack open. Let the water run through and over all your
ponds and apparatus for as long as possible before you begin
operations.


Adelphi melodrama isn't in it with this story.

Also in _San Antonio_ there is a simple, quiet humour; and _The
Legend of Padre José_ is singularly touching.

Altogether a book this of infinite variety.
(_Signed_) BARON DE BOOK-WORMS.
The hatching
trays are suspended in the rearing boxes, or placed upon movable rests
in the boxes, with their edges just above the level of the water.

Notice is usually sent a day or two before the ova are despatched from
fish cultural establishments, so the amateur has no excuse for not being
absolutely ready for their reception. They are packed in various ways,
and nowadays suffer but little in the transit. The ova should always be
carefully washed before they are placed in the hatching trays. Mr.
Armistead, in _A Handy Guide to Fish Culture_, says:--"If just turned
out of a packing case there may be small pieces of moss or other
material amongst them. In any case a wash will do them no harm, and the
process is a very simple one. Take a pail, half-filled with ova, and
then fill up with water, and with a small lading-can lift some of the
water out, and pour it back again, so as to cause a downward current,
which will agitate the ova. Their specific gravity being greater than
that of water, they immediately retire again to the bottom of the pail,
and by at once pouring off as much water as is practicable, any floating
particles of moss, etc., may be carried off. Should any be left, the
process should be repeated, and it may even be necessary to repeat it
several times. When all is right take a ladle, or small vessel of some
kind, say a good-sized tea-cup, and gently ladle out the eggs, and place
them roughly on the grills, where they may be roughly spread by means of
a feather."

