"I thought that was a cloud," said Jack. "I wonder what it means?"

"That some hunters are making a fire to cook with," volunteered
Donald.

"Of course that is it," agreed Rand. "You can always depend upon
old Solomon to knock the romance out of anything."

"Well, I don't know," continued Jack. "It looks queer to me."

"Oh, everything looks queer to you," argued Donald. "You are always
seeing mysteries."

"Yes," retorted Jack, "and you can't see them until they come up
to you and hit you over the head. I've got more than half a notion
to go there and see what it is. Any of you want to go?"

"Not I," replied Rand. "It's a good two miles up there, if it is
one, and my curiosity isn't strong enough to carry me that far."

"Nor I," added Donald. "I can find all the trouble I want without
going to the top of the mountain hunting for more."

"Trouble," said Jack. "Now, who said anything about trouble?"

By this time they had reached the shore and, jumping out of the
boat, dragged it up on the beach.

"Now," called Rand, when they had landed, "who wants to be cook?
Don't all speak at once."

"I'll do it," volunteered Jack, "but--"

"Say no more," interjected Rand, "we couldn't do worse and Don is
almost as bad. I reckon, Pepper, it must be you or I."

"If we don't want to starve," agreed the boy.

"If you and Jack will clean the fish and Don will bring the water
and wash the dishes I'll do the cooking," went on Rand. "Is that
fair?"

"That's fair, all right," agreed the others.

"All right, then," ordered Rand, "get busy."

While Jack and Pepper were getting the fish ready, Rand brought
the stove from the boat, set it up and had it burning, and the pan
hot by the time Pepper came with the first installment of fish.

"Gee! that smells good," called Jack a little later when the frying
fish, under Rand's skillful manipulation, began to send forth savory
odors. "You can sure cook, Rand."

"Ah done reckon dat am a fac', foh shuah," said Rand.

"Hurry up, Rand," broke in Pepper. "I can't wait much longer."

"All ready, sah," called Rand. "Dem fishes am prognosticated to ah
turn."

Something passing on the river attracted attention, and the boys
all walked a few paces toward the water.

At this instant, as their backs were turned, a boy ran swiftly
from a nearby clump of bushes, snatched the pan from the stove,
overturning the latter as he did so, and silently dashed back into
the woods.

It was done so quickly and adroitly that Pepper, who was the first
to catch sight of him, had scarcely time to shout:

"There goes Monkey Rae, and he has got our fish."

"What is it?" asked Rand in bewilderment.

"Monkey Rae," cried Pepper; "he's stolen our fish! Come on, boys.
After him!"

"Well, of all things!" exclaimed Rand, "that takes the cake."

"I t-t-think it takes t-t-the fish," amended Pepper, as he dashed
away.

The boys set out at once in pursuit of the thief, but he had too
long a start, and perhaps, some knowledge of the locality, and
after a vain hunt they straggled back to the boat without having
found any trace of him.

"Well, that's the meanest thing yet," grumbled Pepper, looking at
the overturned stove. "The oil has all run out and we can't cook any
more," he went on, with so gloomy an expression that, in spite of
their anger against Monkey Rae, the others could not help laughing.


CHAPTER VII

THE COLONEL


"What's the matter, boys?" said a cheery voice behind them, and
they turned quickly to meet the smiling glance of a man who was
sitting on a rock at the edge of the glade.

He was tall, erect, and of military bearing. Quick and alert, in
spite of his snow-white hair and mustache.

"Why, Colonel Snow!" cried Jack in astonishment; "where did you
come from?"

"Oh, I saw you some time ago as you were coming ashore," replied
the colonel, "and I walked down to meet you. What's the trouble,
the enemy been making an attack?"

"Looks that way," answered Rand. "Monkey Rae made a raid on the
commissary and carried off the fish we had cooked."

"That's nothing to be concerned over," continued the colonel. "Why
don't you cook some more?"

"Can't," replied Pepper, "he upset the stove and spilled all the
oil we had."

"Stove!" ejaculated the colonel in scorn. "What do you want with
a stove?"

"Why, you can't cook without a stove," replied Pepper, "and, besides,
he stole our pan."

"Pan!" exclaimed the colonel, "and plates, too. When you are out
on a tramp all you need is a knife, a tincup and a match. The little
Welsh rector bowed with astonishment, while his rustic scion stared
with wild alarm to find himself for the first time in his life in
company with a man of title.

A wink from coachee accompanied with an action of his _rein angle_
against my side, followed by a suppressed laugh, prepared me ~119~~
for some important communications relative to my fellow traveller.

"An old _snyder_,"{6} whispered Jehu, "who was once mayor of
Oxford, and they do say was knighted by mistake,--' a thing of
shreds and patches,'

'Who, by short skirts and little capes, Items for buckram, twist,
and tapes, '
has, in his time, fine drawn half the university; but having retired
from the seat of trade, now seeks the seat of the Muses, and writes
fustian rhymes and bell-men's odes at Christmas time: a mere clod,
but a great man with the corporation."

We had now arrived on the heights within a short distance of the
city of Oxford, and I had the gratification for the first time
to obtain a glance of sacred _Academus_ peeping from between the
elm groves in which she is embowered, to view those turrets which
were to be the future scene of all my hopes and fears. Never shall
I forget the sensations,
"----When first these glistening eyes survey'd Majestic Oxford's
hundred towers display'd; And silver Isis rolling at her feet Adorn
the sage's and the poet's seat:
Saw Radcliffe's dome in classic beauty rear'd, And learning's stores
in Bodley's pile revered; First view'd, with humble awe, the steps
that stray'd Slow in the gloom of academic shade, Or framed in
thought, with fancy's magic wand, Wise Bacon's arch; thy bower,
fair Rosamond."

In the bosom of a delightful valley, surrounded by the most luxuriant
meadows, and environed by gently swelling hills, smiling in all
the pride of cultivated beauty, on every side diversified by hanging
wood, stands the fair city of learning and the arts.

The two great roads from the capital converge upon the small church
of St.

Clement, in the eastern suburb, from whence, advancing in a westerly
direction, you ~120~~ arrive at Magdalen bridge, so named from the
college adjoining, whose lofty graceful tower is considered a fine
specimen of architecture.

The prospect of the city from this point is singularly grand and
captivating; on the left, the botanical garden, with its handsome
portal; beyond, steeples and towers of every varied form shooting
up in different degrees of elevation.

The view of the High-street is magnificent, and must impress the
youthful mind with sentiments of awe and veneration.

Its picturesque curve and expansive width, the noble assemblage of
public and private edifices in all the pride of varied art, not
rising in splendid uniformity, but producing an enchantingly varied
whole, the entire perspective of which admits of no European rival--

"The awful tow'rs which seem for science made; The solemn chapels,
which to prayer invite, Whose storied windows shed a holy light--"
the colleges of Queen's and All Souls', with the churches of St.

Mary and All Saints' on the northern side of the street, and the
venerable front of University College on the south, present at every
step objects for contemplation and delight.

Whirling up this graceful curvature, we alighted at the Mitre,
an inn in the front of the High-street, inclining towards Carfax.
A number of under graduates in their academicals were posted round
the door, or lounging on the opposite side, to watch the arrival
of the coach, and amuse themselves with quizzing the passengers.

Among the foremost of the group, and not the least active, was my
old schoolfellow and con, Tom Echo, now of Christ Church. The
recognition was instantaneous; the welcome a hearty one, in
the true Etonian style; and the first connected sentence an
invitation to dinner.

"I shall make a party on purpose to introduce you, old chap," said
Tom, "that is, ~121~~ as soon as you have made your bow to the _big
wig_:{7} but I say, old fellow, where are you entered 1 we are
most of us overflowingly full here."

I quickly satisfied his curiosity upon that point, by informing him
I had been for some time enrolled upon the list of the foundation
of Brazennose, and had received orders to come up and enter myself.

Our conversation now turned upon the necessary ceremonies of
matriculation.

Tom's face was enlivened to a degree when I showed him my letter
of introduction to Dr. Dingyman, of L-n college. "What, the
opposition member, the Oxford Palladio? Why, you might just as
well expect to move the Temple of the Winds from Athens to Oxford,
without displacing a fragment, as to hope the doctor will present
you to the vice-chancellor

.
asked Rand.

"Here is the trail," replied the colonel, pointing it out as he
spoke. "Here is the print of a foot on the dirt and here is another.
Here is a bigger and a heavier one; a man made those. You can see
one of them is deeper than the other, showing more weight on that
side."

"But, how can you see all that?" questioned Pepper. "You have hardly
looked at them, and I couldn't see them at all until you pointed
them out."

"Practice and observation," answered the colonel. "That trail is
as plain as day. There wasn't any attempt to hide it. Why, out on
the plains a scout would follow it at a gallop. See how far you
can track it."

"'Twill no be far, in my opinion," confessed Donald. "'Tis no over
plain."

But with much care and patience the boys were able to follow the
track for a considerable distance, losing it every now and then and
picking it up again, Rand being the quickest and Donald the most
persistent; ail of them getting a little more expert as they went
on.

"Where does it go now?" asked Jack after a while, when they had
lost it and were unable to pick it up again.

"That's doing very well for a beginning," commended the colonel.
"They went off here, I think to avoid the house, and we are almost
there."

A short walk brought them to the shack, which was set in a little
clearing in the woods. It was one-story high and about sixteen feet
square, with a small kitchen in the back. It was provided with two
doors, numerous windows, and had a small porch in front. It was
ceiled inside and scantily furnished with a few chairs, a couple
of tables and a couch, but the walls were ornamented with the heads
of deer and elk, as well as the skins of smaller animals, and the
floor was covered with bear and panther skins. Over the big fireplace
hung a shotgun with a couple of rifles, and several Indian bows
stood in one corner.


CHAPTER VIII

TALKING IT OVER


"I thought you didn't use a stove," remarked Jack, opening his eyes
in astonishment at the sight of the colonel's well-appointed kitchen.

"Why not?" asked the colonel, smiling at Jack's surprise. "I don't
sleep on the ground from choice, when I have a comfortable bed."

"But, you said--" continued Jack.

"This is a permanent headquarters," the colonel went on. "When I
go on a march I don't carry all these things with me. What we don't
have we get along without, as part of the day's task."

"That's a grand pair of horns on that elk's head," admired Rand,
who was looking at the trophies of the chase that hung on the walls.
"Isn't there a story that goes with that?"

"Not much of a story," replied the colonel. "It was killed on a trip
I made up in the Canadian Northwest, and it was a narrow escape for
me, too. It was killed by an arrow from one of those bows there."

"An arrow!" exclaimed Rand. "I didn't know that an elk could be
killed with an arrow."

"An arrow is as deadly as a bullet at short range," replied the
colonel. "You have read of the English archers and their famous
long-bows, haven't you?"

"And Robin Hood," put in Pepper.

"Robin Hood, of course," continued the colonel. "The Indians were
dangerous foes, too, even when they had nothing but their bows and
arrows."

"I wonder if I could learn to shoot with one of them," mused Rand,
drawing back one of the bows, a feat that required all of his
strength. "Say, boys, I've got an idea."

"Hold fast to it," counseled Donald. "You may no get another."

"Let's organize an Indian patrol, and we can carry bows and arrows."

"It might be worth thinking about," admitted Donald.

"That's what we wanted to talk to you about, colonel," said Jack,
"but I am afraid it's too late to take the matter up to-day."

"Why too late?"

"Because it is time we were starting for home," answered Jack.

"No trouble about that," replied the colonel. "I will walk back
with you, and we can talk it over as we go along. All these doubts
were, however, of short duration; for Tom Echo no sooner caught
sight of their faces, than away he bounded towards them like a young
colt in all the frolic of untamed playfulness, and before I could
reach him, one of the ladies was rolling on the green carpet of
luxuriant Nature.

In the deep bosom of Bagley Wood, impervious to the eye of authority,
many a sportive scene occurs which would alarm the ethics of the
solemn sages of the cloistered college.

They were, I discovered, sisters, too early abandoned by an unfeeling
parent to poverty, and thus became an easy prey to the licentious
and the giddy, who, in the pursuit of pleasure, never contemplate
the attendant misery which is sure to follow the victim of seduction.

There was something romantic in their story: they were daughters
of the celebrated Mother Goose, whose person must have been familiar
to every Oxonian for the last sixty years prior to her decease,
which occurred but a short time since Of ~162~~ this woman's history
I have since gleaned some curious particulars, the most remarkable
of which (contained in the annexed note) have been authenticated
by living witnesses.{1} Her portrait, by a member of All Souls, is
admirable, and is here faithfully copied.

[Illustration: page162]
1 "_Mother Goose_," formerly a procuress, and one of the most
abandoned of her profession.

When from her advanced age, and the loss of her eye-sight, she
could no longer obtain money by seducing females from the path of
virtue, she married a man of the name of H., (commonly called
Gentleman H.) and for years was led by him to the students' apartments
in the different colleges with baskets of the choicest flowers.

Her ancient, clean, and neat appearance, her singular address, and,
above all, the circumstance of her being blind, never failed of
procuring her at least ten times the price of her posy, and which
was frequently doubled when she informed the young gentlemen of the
generosity, benevolence, and charity of their grandfathers, fathers,
or uncles whom she knew when they were at college.

She had several illegitimate children, all females, and all were
sacrificed by their unnatural mother, except one, who was taken
away from her at a very tender age by the child's father's parents.

When of age, this child inherited her father's property, and is
now (I believe) the wife of an Irish nobleman, and to this time
is unconscious that Mother Goose, of Oxford, gave her birth.

The person who was instrumental in removing the child is still
living in Oxford, and will testify to the authenticity of the fact
here related.

By this time they came within sight of the landing where they had
left the boat, and Pepper, who had run on ahead, suddenly raised
such an outcry that the others rushed forward in alarm.

"What is the matter?" shouted Rand.

"The b-boat," stammered Pepper.

"What is the matter with it?" asked Donald.

"It's g-g-gone!"

"Gone! where?" demanded Jack.

"How should I know?" replied Pepper. "All I know is that it is
gone."

Sure enough, there was no boat to be seen.


CHAPTER IX

THE PURSUIT


"It must have drifted away," said Rand.

"Sure of that?" asked Jack.

"I knew it!" suddenly broke in Pepper.

"Then why didn't you tell us," demanded Rand. "What did you know?"

"Monkey Rae," replied Pepper.

"Well, what about him?" cried Jack.

"He has taken the boat," answered Pepper.

"How do you know?" questioned Donald.

"There is his track on the sand."

"He is certainly very much in evidence," said the colonel.

"I wish I could get hold of him once," cried Rand vindictively.

"I'd much prefer to get hold of the boat just now," put in Donald.

"There is certainly something queer going on here," observed Jack.

"More mysteries, Jack?" asked Rand.

"Yes," answered Jack. "That man is mixed up in this, too."

"What man?" asked Rand.

"The man with the limp," replied Jack.

"Where is he?"

"He was here, and I believe he went off in the boat," went on Jack.
"You can see his tracks around here."

"Jack is right," confirmed the colonel, "the man has undoubtedly
gone off with the boat."

"Hem," said Pepper, "there doesn't seem to be anything safe here.

"What are we going to do now?" asked Rand.

"Walk home, I guess," said Donald. "I don't know how else we will
get there."

"There they go now!" cried Jack, suddenly pointing to their boat
near the other side of the river. "Oh, if we only had a boat to
follow them in."

"I have one," said the colonel. "We can take that. Come on, boys!"

Starting off at a pace that kept the four youths on a run to keep
up with him, the colonel led the way back to the house. Eglan. (to
the ostler) Well, Dick, what sort of a stud, hey?

any thing rum, a ginger or a miller, three legs or five, got by
Whirlwind out of Skyscraper? Come, fig out two lively ones.

Dick.

I mun see measter first, zur, before I lets any gentleman take
a nag out o' yard.

It's more as my place is worth to act otherwise.

Eglan. What coming Tip-street over us, hey, Dick? ~158~~ _frisking
the freshman_ here, old fellow? (pointing to me). It won't do--no
go, Dick--he's my friend, a _cawker_ to be sure, but must not
_stand Sam_ to an _Oxford raff_, or a Yorkshire _Johnny Raw_.

Dick. I axes pardon, zur.

I didna mean any such thing, but ever since you rode the grey tit
last, she's never been out o' stall.

Eglan. Not surprised at that, Dick.

Never crossed a greater slug in my life--She's only fit to carry
a dean or a bishop--No go in her.

Dick. No, zur, measter zays as how you took it all out on her.

Eglan.

Why, I did give her a winder, Dick, to be sure, only one day's
hunting, though, a good hard run over Somerset range, not above
sixty miles out and home.

Dick.

Ay, I thought as how you'd been in some break-neck tumble-down
country, zur, for Tit's knuckels showed she'd had a somerset or
two.

Eglan. Well, blister the mare, Dick!

there's _half a bull_ for your trouble: now put us on the right
scent for a good one: any thing young and fresh, sprightly and
shewy?

Dick. Why, there be such a one to be zure, zur, but you munna split
on me, or I shall get the zack for telling on ye.

If you'll sken yon stable at end o' the yard, there be two prime
tits just com'd in from Abingdon fair, thorough-bred and devils to
go, but measter won't let 'em out.

Eglan. Won't he?

here he comes, and we'll try what a little persuasion will do. (Enter
Livery Man.) Well, old fellow, I've brought you a new friend,
Blackmantle of Brazennose: what sort of _praxis_ can you give us
for a trot to Bagley Wood, a short ride for something shewy to
_lionise_ a bit?

Livery M.

Nothing new, sir, and you know all the stud pretty well (knowingly).

Suppose you try the grey mare you rode t'other day, and I'll find a
quiet one for your friend.

~159~~ Eglan. If I do, I am a _black horse_. She's no paces,
nothing _but a shuffle_, not a _leg to stand on_.

Livery M. Every one as good as the principal of All-Souls. Not a
better bred thing in Oxford, and all horses here gallop by instinct,
as every body knows, but they can't go for ever, and when gentlemen
ride steeple chases of sixty miles or more right a-head, they ought
to find their own horse-flesh.

Eglan. What coming _crabb_ over us, old fellow, hey 1 Very well, I
shall bolt and try Randall, and that's all about it. Come along,
Blackmantle.

My friend's threat of withdrawing his patronage had immediately the
desired effect. Horace's judgment in horse-flesh was universally
admitted, and the knowing dealer, although he had suffered in one
instance by hard riding, yet deeply calculated on retrieving his
loss by some unsuspecting Freshman, or other university Nimrod in
the circle of Eglantine's acquaintance."He's an old fox and not easily to be caught," decided the colonel,
when this maneuver had been repeated two or three times. "He is
making for the other shore, and if he gets in among the shallows
over there I am afraid we will lose him yet."

The Scout was now so close to the smaller boat that the occupants
could easily be distinguished.

"There is Monkey Rae," declared Pepper.

"And Sam and Red," added Jack, "but I don't know who the man is."

"Boat, ahoy!" shouted the colonel.

"What do you want?" snarled the man.

"You!" shouted the colonel. "Lay to until we come alongside!"

"Come on," responded the man, "and you will get more than you are
looking for!" at the same time displaying a pistol, which he pointed
toward the larger boat.

"Drop that!" commanded the colonel, going forward and covering
the man with the gun, while Rand took the helm. "If you make any
attempt to use that pistol I will disable you at once."

With a muttered imprecation the man let the pistol fall and, seizing
the oars, began rowing for the shore.

"Shall we follow him?" asked Rand.

"There is a sand-bar there, I think," replied the colonel. "If
you pull up the centerboard, perhaps we can slide over it. It's no
use," he added a moment later as the boat fell off, "we shall have
to go round."

By this time the small boat had been pulled in close to the shore,
where the man, picking up a package from the bottom of the boat,
sprang over the side and, followed by the boys, ran up the shore
and disappeared in the woods, leaving the boat to drift.

"Shall we follow them?" asked Rand.

"I don't want them," said Donald.

"Better let them go, I think," added the colonel.

"Well, I hope I have seen the last of Monkey Rae for a good while,"
went on Pepper.

"Then as Dogberry says: 'Let us call the watch together and thank
God we are rid of a knave,'" quoted Rand.

Picking up the drifting boat the Scout was headed down the river
and in a few minutes they were off the colonel's landing. Here, the
boys would have taken their boat and rowed home, but the colonel
insisted on carrying them down to Creston, which was quickly done
in the bracing breeze.

"Remember, as soon as you are ready," he said as he left them, "I
will swear you in as Scouts."


CHAPTER X

LOOKING FOR A CLUE


"Hello, Jack," called Rand, meeting the former on the street the
following morning, hurrying along in his usual fashion, "what's
the latest?"

"About what?" asked Jack in turn.

"About everything. Anything new about the robbing of Judge Taylor's
office the other night?"

"Haven't heard much yet," replied Jack. "I was just going around
there to see if they had found out anything more."

"Looking for clues?" questioned Rand.

"Not so much for clues as news," responded Jack. "Perhaps I can
pick up some of both. You never can tell when they'll pop up. Don't
you want to go along?"

"And see how you do it," laughed Rand. "I don't mind if I do.
Written up yesterday's story yet?"

"About your heroic rescue of a lovely maiden from the angry waves.
Of course; did it last night. Want to see it? I was going to put
a head on it: 'Heroic Rescue by a Creston Boy.'"

"You don't mean it, Jack Blake!"

"Wait until you see it on the first page, double leaded, with a
scarehead."

"Really and truly?"

"Really and truly."

"Please don't, Jack."

"Why, don't you want it?" asked Jack in mock surprise. "I thought
you would be delighted to see your name in print."

"You know I don't want to be made ridiculous!"

"All right," responded Jack, "I'll kill it if you say so, but it
would have made a sensation."

"I don't doubt that," laughed Rand, "but I'd rather not be the
victim. I wonder," he went on musingly, "if we will ever see them
again."

"Who?"

"The Whildens."

"Hardly likely," replied Jack. "If we do they will probably have
forgotten us."

"Still I'd like to know how she came out."

"Oh, she came out all right," replied Jack lightly. "A little cold
water won't hurt her. You know, the doctor said she was out of
danger.

"It's a curious thing how they got in," he went on after a little
pause, his thought turning on the robbery, which was uppermost in
his mind just then.

"I don't see anything curious about it," returned Rand.

"You don't!" cried Jack. "Maybe you can explain how they did it
then."

"I don't know as it needs any explaining," retorted Rand. "They
got in a trough of the waves, and--"

"Trough of the waves!" cried Jack.

"What are you talking about?"

"Why, about the Whildens, of course. What are you talking about?"

"Oh, pshaw! I was talking about the burglars."

"Oh, I see," said Rand. "How did they get in?"

"That is what we would all like to know," replied Jack. "There isn't
anything to show how they got in or how they went out, unless they
went out through the door and locked it after them."

"That is possible, isn't it?" asked Rand.

"I suppose it is possible," admitted Jack, "but I don't see how
they managed it."

Lord Leicester had the reputation of good scholarship, and not
undeservedly.

In regard to poetry, however, he was sometimes apt to break the
eighth commandment, and prove lie read more the Musee Etonenses
than his prayer-book. Inheriting it from Lord Townshend, the father
of caricaturists, he there pursued, with nearly equal ability,
that turn for satiric drawing.

The master, the tutors, slender Prior, and fat Roberts,--all felt
in rotation the effects of his pencil.

There too, as well as since, he had a most venerable affection for
heraldry, and the same love of collecting together old titles, and
obsolete mottos.

Once in the military, he had, it may be said, a turn for arms.

In a zeal of this kind he once got over the natural mildness of his
temper, and was heard to exclaim--"There are two griffins in my
family that have been missing these three centuries, and by G-,
I'll have iliem back again!"

-This passion was afterwards improved into so perfect a knowledge,
that in the creation of peers he was applied to, that every due
ceremonial might be observed; and he never failed in his recollection
on these antiquated subjects.

Tom Plummer gave then a specimen of that quickness and vivacity of
parts for which he was afterwards famed.

But not as a scholar, not as a poet, was he quick alone; he was
quick too in the wrong ends of things, as well as the right, with
a plausible account to follow it.

In fact, he was born for the law; clear, discriminating, judicious,
alive, and with a noble impartiality to all sides of questions,
and which none could defend better.

This goes, however, only to the powers of his head; in those of the
heart no one, and in the best ~85~~ and tenderest qualities of it,
ever stood better.

He was liked universally, and should be so; for no man was ever
more meritorious for being good, as he who had all the abilities
which sometimes make a man otherwise.

In the progress of life mind changes often, and body almost always.

Both these rules, however, he lived to contradict; for his talents
and his qualities retained their virtue; and when a boy he was as
tall as when a man, and apparently the same.

Capel Loft.
"Do you think that they could have come in through the cellar?"
asked Rand, when they entered the back hall.

"I had thought of that," replied Jack, "but every one says that
these doors were bolted, and I don't see how they could bolt the
doors after they had gone out."

"It does seem just a little difficult," admitted Rand.

Going out in the yard, the boys examined the rear of the building.

"They couldn't have got to the windows up there without a ladder,"
decided Rand, after a study of the situation. "And you say the
windows were fastened?"

"That's what they say," responded Jack, "and I don't believe burglars
carry ladders around in their kits. Besides there is an electric
light right here, so that a ladder could be seen quite plainly from
the street. "I wonder," he mused, looking into the space between
the buildings, "if any one could get up through there."

Suppressing my laughter at my host's Latinity, I thought this a fair
opportunity to make some inquiries relative to this important
officer in a college establishment.

"I suppose you know most of these ambassadors of the togati belonging
to the different colleges'?"

"I think I do, sir," said Peake, "if you mean the scouts; but I
never heard them called by that name before.

If you are of Christ Church, I should recommend Dick Cook, or, as
he is generally called, Gentleman Cook, as the most finished,
spritely, honest fellow of the whole.

"We came in to
see if there was anything new about the robbery."

"Good morning, boys," replied the judge. "Looking for news, as
usual, eh, Jack? Well, I am sorry to say there isn't any. We are
just as much in the dark as ever. It is beyond my comprehension
how any one could get in and out of this place and not leave any
signs to show how they did it."

"It beats me," chimed in the officer. "It was a good job, too.
Looks as if there were two or three in it, the way they handled
the safe," pointing to the large, old-fashioned safe, good enough
in its day, but not offering much resistance to modern tools, which
was standing in the middle of the room.

"They certainly made junk of it," remarked Rand; "how did they do
it?"

"Steel wedges," replied the officer. "It wasn't very much of a job
for yeggmen, such as these must have been. said Horace: "then I
plead guilty, and swallow the imposition."

"I'll thank you for a cut out of the back of that _lion_,"{34}
tittered a man opposite.

With all the natural timidity of the hare whom he thus particularised,
I was proceeding to help him, when Echo inquired if he should send
me the breast of a swiss {35} and the facetious Eglantine, to
increase my confusion, requested to be allowed to cut me a slice
off the wing of a wool bird.{36}
31 A Paddyism is called in this university a "Thorpism" from Mr.

"Not very much," answered the judge, looking it over. "There seems
to be a smudge of dirt on it, that is all."

"Nor I," chimed in the officer. "Nothing there."

"Looks to me like finger marks," said Rand.

