I explained shortly what I thought our friend, O'Meara, would do under
the circumstances. An inference sufficed Farrar.

"Why didn't you say something about this before?" he asked gravely.
"I would have put into Far Harbor."

"Because I didn't think of it," I confessed.

Farrar pulled down the corners of his mouth with trying not to smile.

"Miss Thorn is a woman of brains," he remarked gently; "I respect her."

I wondered by what mysterious train of reasoning he had arrived at this
conclusion. He said nothing for a while, but toyed with the spokes of
the wheel, keeping the wind in the sail with undue nicety.

"I can't make them out," he said, all at once.

"Then you believe they're after us?"

"I changed the course a point or two, just to try them."

"And--"

"And they changed theirs."

"Who could have informed?"

"Drew, of course," I said; "who else?"

He laughed.

"Drew doesn't know anything about Allen," said he; "and, besides, he's no
more of a detective than I am."

"But Drew was told there was a criminal on the island."

"Who told him?"

I repeated the conversation between Drew and Mr. Trevor which I had
overheard. Farrar whistled.

"But you did not speak of that this morning," said he.

"No," I replied, feeling anything but comfortable. At times when he was
facetious as he had been this morning I was wont to lose sight of the
fact that with Farrar the manner was not the man, and to forget the
warmth of his friendship. I was again to be reminded of this.

"Well, Crocker," he said briefly, "I would willingly give up this year's
state contract to have known it."


CHAPTER XVIII

It was, accurately as I can remember, half after noon when Mr. Cooke
first caught the smoke over the point, for the sun was very high: at two
our fate had been decided. I have already tried to describe a part of
what took place in that hour and a half, although even now I cannot get
it all straight in my mind. Races, when a great deal is at stake, are
more or less chaotic: a close four miles in a college eight is a
succession of blurs with lucid but irrelevant intervals. Worry that
your lower abdomen - back - and your Werth will be bigger, just let your
Revel, remember that the grave of his throat dreymal continues
against you aufsperrt, as against other people - Answer me abgeschmakten
fun no dissent; bilde dir not that I am the thing I was aware of
the heavens, and the world should be aware that my former self of
mine geworffen did, and so I will work with my society.

If you'll listen, I sey as I was, then come to me, and you should Seyn
what you were, the guardians and caregivers of my Auschweiffungen. Until
then, banish 'ich dich, Tight Bey of death, you and the rest of my
seducer, you never under ten miles of my person to approach. I want you
to let Nöthiger maintenance, so you do not weakness Nöthiger rude to
thun, and as we will hear that you are improving, we want you, euerm
status and efficiency of your after, give Befördrung - Sorget for Milord,
our intention that this will nachgelebt. Continued - (The King and his
entourage pass.) Ninth Scene. Falstaff. Schallow Lord, I am a thousand
pounds you owe. Schallow. Yes, my soul, Sir John, and I ask you, give
it to me again home.

Falstaff. This can hardly Seyn, Mr Schallow. Do not worry on this, he
will send for me secret, you see, before he had the people so like thun.
Seyde without concern for your transportation, but I want the man Seyn
that you do great. Schallow. Begreiffen I can not like the approach would
have, except if you give me your dewlap, and me with straw ausstopft.

I ask you, good Sir John, just give me at least five hundred pounds.

Falstaff. Sir, my word is just as much. What you heard this,
adjustment was only a trick, as I say, come with me to eat lunch, come,
Lieutenant Pistol: come, Bardolph. It is now night soon after I
send. (The top judge, Lord and Lancaster occur.) Top judge Lord (for
his retinue.)

Moves brings Sir John Falstaff to the Fleet. Take all his company.
Falstaff.

Milord, Milord, - top judge. IZT I can not talk, I will soon hear
more from you.
"Now," he said, regaining his feet and surveying the whole with
undisguised satisfaction, "he'll be as safe there as in my new family
vault."

"But" I began, a light dawning upon me.

"Allen, old man," said Mr. Cooke, "come here."

The Celebrity laid down his book and looked up: my client was putting on
his coat.

Lord upper judge. He has. Lancaster.

I wanted to bet that we, eh DISS year end, our civil Schwerdt for France
will bear.

I heard a bird so sing, whose music, like me däuchte, want the king
liked.The Celebrity looked at the mattress, then at me, and lastly at Mr.
Cooke. His face was a study:

"And--And you think I am going to get in there?" he said, his voice
shaking.

My client fell back a step.

"Why not?" he demanded. "It's about your size, comfortable, and all the
air you want" (here Mr. Cooke stuck his finger through the bit hole).
"Damn me, if I were in your fix, I wouldn't stop at a kennel."

"Then you're cursed badly mistaken," said the Celebrity, going back to
his corner; "I'm tired of being made an ass of for you and your party."

"An ass!" D.

Acisclo up for practice, and today, without thinking about tomorrow,
my system is worth more than that of V.

What is achieved by employing trochi-moche? The district is not enriched
by it. The emerging nature of it is spent outside the employee charged.
Rare is the returning to the district to spend it or save it to Garbee.
Often, those savings do not look or seem. Dissipate and evaporate
like many other poor and easily acquired wealth. The money will come
from the sexton singing and chanting will. The employee, please electoral
acquires habits of luxury, disdains as rustic and simple with
previously lived, and adjusts the clock to earn the money for him,
going and spending hours and days.

The bad example to infect all. The son of the artisans, the servant of
service, anyone who can read and write, hate manual work, and says to
himself: Why have not I used to be? Why I do not give the deputy a nice
placement? He who has no expectation that the MP put it fills with envy
and anger, and becomes weak and lazy to not be less than the employee,
whose holganza life and forged a regalona exaggerated and fantastic.
Imagine, no one take it away from the head, not knowing clearly what
time that is spent, what paper and what was daubed on worries that
occur with our complicated expedienteo, the hours spent in office
fun Chat, smoking fine cigars and office gifts with frequent snacks.

And understand that every moment offers _negocios my office is not at all
flor_ lerdo, which often has something to seize and which need not
occasionally who spread the good hand. With such imaginations, how will
anyone be happy to dig the pit, and how not to want to convert the site
into a semblance of the ideal, delicious and sybaritic office?

Oh, Falstaff!

"Father, father!" exclaimed Miss Trevor. But her tongue was in her
cheek.

I have heard it stated that if a thoroughly righteous man were cast away
with ninety and nine ruffians, each of the ruffians would gain
one-one-hundredth in virtue, whilst the righteous man would sink to their
new level. I am not able to say how much better Mr. Cooke's party was
for Mr. Trevor's company, but the senator seemed to realize that
something serious had happened to him, for his voice was not altogether
steady as he pronounced the amount of his contribution.

"Trevor," cried Mr. Cooke, with great fervor, "I take it all back.
You're a true, public-spirited old sport."

But the senator had not yet reached that extreme of degradation where it
is pleasurable to be congratulated on wickedness.

My client added up the figures and rubbed his hands. I regret to say
that the aggregate would have bought up three small police organizations,
body and soul.

"Pull up, Farrar, old man," he shouted.

Farrar released the wheel and threw the Maria into the wind. With the
sail cracking and the big boom dodging over our heads, we watched the tug
as she drew nearer and nearer, until we could hear the loud beating of
her engines. On one side some men were making ready to lower a boat, and
then a conspicuous figure in blue stood out by the davits. Then came the
faint tinkle of a bell, and the H Sinclair, of Far Harbor, glided up and
thrashed the water scarce a biscuit-throw away.

"Hello, there!" the man in uniform called out. It was Captain McCann,
chief of the Far Harbor police.

Mr. Cooke waved his cigar politely.

"Is that Mr. Cooke's yacht, the Maria?

"The same," said Mr. Cooke.

Fourth elevator scene: A large, festively lit room in the middle
of that and after the depth of the theater a richly decorated table,
in which eight generals, including Octavio Piccolomini, Terzky and
Maradas, sit.

Right and left, more to the rear to two other panels, which each
with six passengers are occupied.

Next, the serving, the whole front stage remains to wait and Pagenberg
servant free.
My client's hospitality was oriental.

"Make yourself at home, old man," he said, a box of his largest and
blackest cigars in his hand. And these he advanced towards McCann before
the knot was tied in the painter.

Then a wave of self-reproach swept over me. Was it possible that I, like
Mr. Trevor, had been deprived of all the morals I had ever possessed?
Could it be that the district attorney was looking calmly on while Mr.
Cooke wilfully corrupted the Far Harbor chief-of-police? As agonizing a
minute as I ever had in my life was that which it took McCann to survey
those cigars. Well, my father made of his noble services los built with
permission of the monastery Gentlemen this hut, and led my mother Agnes,
as his dear housewife inside. The venison was good through the Hülfe,
which made him my father, so mild and tame become that he was always on
the side if he is to his hut with his mother built.

My father always took care of the sick deer eye, which soon ausheilte,
but was blind.

Clouds of smoke came out of his face
and floated down the wind. He was so visibly embarrassed that I gained a
little courage.

"And what brings you here?" I demanded.

He scrutinized me in perplexity.

"I think you're guessing, sir."

"Never a guess, McCann. Don Jaime, meanwhile, had not only failed, but it is hardly worth
writing, except for D.

Acisclo and this afternoon and evening in style terse and dry. But it was
as it were, the launch was already committed, to D.

Acisclo was a matter of pride, and even D.
Can it be that ye're helping to lift a criminal over
the border?"

"McCann," I asked sternly, "what have you had on the, tug?"

Force of habit proved too much for the man. He went back to the
apologetic.

