Produced by Michael Ciesielski, Martin Pettit and the
Online Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


                          MADAME FLIRT


                          A ROMANCE OF
                      "THE BEGGAR'S OPERA"

                               BY

                        CHARLES E. PEARCE

                _"Why how now Madam Flirt"--Lucy._


                            AUTHOR OF

   "STIRRING DEEDS IN THE GREAT WAR," "A QUEEN OF THE PADDOCK,"
                     "CORINTHIAN JACK," ETC.

                             LONDON
                       STANLEY PAUL & CO.
                31, ESSEX STREET, STRAND, W.C.2.

_Printed in Great Britain at the Athenæum Printing Works, Redhill_

                     FIRST PUBLISHED IN 1922.


CHAPTER I

"IF YOUR NAME ISN'T POLLY IT OUGHT TO BE"


"As pretty a wench as man ever clapped eyes on. Wake up, Lance, and look
at her."

The portly man of genial aspect sitting in the corner of the bow window
of the Maiden Head Inn at the High Street end of Dyott Street in the
very heart of St. Giles, clapped his sleeping friend on the shoulder and
shook him. The sleeper, a young man whose finely drawn features were
clouded with the dregs of wine, muttered something incoherently, and
with an impatient twist shifted his body in the capacious arm-chair.

"Let him alone, Mr. Gay. When a man's in his cups he's best by himself.
'Twill take him a day's snoring to get rid of his bout. The landlord
here tells me he walked with the mob from Newgate to Tyburn and back and
refreshed himself at every tavern on the way, not forgetting, I warrant
you, to fling away a guinea at the Bowl, the Lamb, and the 'Black Jack'
over yonder, and drink to the long life of the daring rogue in the cart
and the health of the hangman to boot."

"Long life indeed, my lord. A couple of hours at most. Not that the
length of life is to be measured by years. I don't know but what it's
possible to cram one's whole existence into a few hours, thanks to that
thief of time," rejoined John Gay pointing to the bottle on the table.

The poet's placid face saddened. John Gay had always taken life as a
pleasure, but there is no pleasure without pain as he had come to
discover. Maybe at that moment a recollection of his follies gave his
conscience a tinge. Of Gay it might be said that he had no enemies other
than himself.

"Oh, the passing hour is the best doubtless, since we never know whether
the next may not be the worst," laughed Henry St. John, Lord
Bolingbroke. "I'll wager Jack Sheppard's best was when the noose was
round his neck. The rascal will trouble nervous folks no more. After all
he was of some use. See that drunken rabble. But for the brave show he
made at Tyburn yesterday, would those ladies and gentlemen be merry
making, think you, and would the tavern keepers and the gin sellers be
putting money in their pockets?"

Gay turned his eyes to the open window.

"I don't want to think of the rascally knave or the rabble either. My
thoughts are on yonder pretty little jade. Look for yourself,
Bolingbroke. You're not so insensible to beauty as Lance Vane is at this
moment."

"Faith, I hope not. Where's the charmer?" said Bolingbroke walking to
the window.

"Stay. She's going to sing. She has the voice of a nightingale. I've
heard her before. Lord! to think she has to do it for a living!"

"Humph. She has courage. Most girls would die rather than rub shoulders
with that frousy, bestial, drunken mob."

"Aye, but that little witch subdues them all with her voice. What says
Will Congreve? Music has charms to soothe a savage breast? Listen."

A girl slight in figure but harmoniously proportioned had placed herself
about two yards from the bow window. She fixed her eyes on Gay and her
pretty mouth curved into a smile. Then she sang. The ditty was "Cold and
Raw," a ballad that two hundred years ago or so, never failed to delight
everybody from the highest to the lowest. She gave it with natural
feeling and without any attempt at display. The voice was untrained but
this did not matter. It was like the trill of a bird, sweet, flexible
and pure toned.

"A voice like that ought not to be battered about. It's meant for
something better than bawling to a mob. What says your lordship?"

Bolingbroke's face had become grave, almost stern. His high, somewhat
narrow, slightly retreating forehead, long nose and piercing eyes lent
themselves readily to severity. Twenty-five years before it was not so.
He was then the gayest of the gay and in the heyday of his career. Much
had happened since then. Disappointed political ambitions and political
flirtations with the Jacobite party had ended in exile in France, from
which, having been pardoned, he had not long returned.

Meeting Gay, the latter suggested a prowl in St. Giles, where life was
in more than its usual turmoil consequent upon the execution of Jack
Sheppard; so Viscount Bolingbroke revisited the slums of St. Many
traces will be found in them of the modes in which they were
rendered acceptable to the crowd, when sung in our most frequented
thoroughfares."

We need hardly say that the volume is got up with great care; and it will
doubtless be an acceptable addition to the libraries of our literary
epicures:
nevertheless, we are free to confess that we were somewhat disappointed
with its contents. We did not, it is true, expect to find, in this
quarto, any new historical, or even romantic ballads of the first
or highest class.

The literature of Elizabeth and James is remarkably sterile in
productions of this nature; and the few which are intrinsically
excellent have long since become familiar and have lost the gloss of
novelty. But the didactic ballad and the canzonet were then extensively
practised, and, with the fugitive poetry of Peele, Marlowe, Greene,
and Lodge in our recollection, we had hoped to recover some valuable
specimens of their more obscure contemporaries. In the voluminous records
of the Elizabethan era, we find mention of many poets who enjoyed
a reasonable celebrity at the time, but whose works, devoid of
buoyancy, have since settled into oblivion.

     We find the names of some of these persons,
      such as Thomas Churchyard, who is spoken of in "The Return from
Parnassus," attached to poems in Mr Collier's collection; but we
are compelled on perusal to acknowledge that there is much justice
in the critical decrees of time, and that very little which is at
all worthy of preservation has been silently permitted to perish.

In an æsthetical point of view, therefore, we cannot expect to derive
much advantage from this reprint of the Roxburghe broadsides. But the
antiquary, who has a natural taste for the cast-off raiment of
the world, will doubtless fasten upon the volume; and the critical
commentator may glean from it some scraps of obsolete information.

To them accordingly we leave it, and pass into the glades of Sherwood.

We wonder whether "Robin Hood, that archer good," is as great a
favourite in the nursery now as he was in our younger days?

We are afraid not.

Our Robin was a mysterious sort of personage, something between an
outlaw and an earl,--a kind of Judge Lynch, who distributed arbitrary
justice beneath the shade of an enormous oak-tree, and who was
perpetually confiscating the moveables of abbots for the exclusive
benefit of the poor.

Maid Marian we could never distinctly realise.

Sometimes she appeared to us as a soft flaxen-haired beauty, not unlike
a lay-figure, once the property of Mr Giannetti, which we loved
in our youth, and to whose memory we still are constant.

Green as emerald was the garb she wore, and the sun loved to shine
upon her as she glided from the shadow of the trysting-tree.

But then this fairy personage did not tally well with the other
figures of the group.

We could not conceive her associating familiarly with the gaunt but
good-natured Scathelock, and Mutch the miller's son. Summer, too,
must pass away from Sherwood as it does from every sublunary scene.

The leaves fall--the birds are mute--the grass has withered down--and
there is snow lying two feet deep in the forest,--and then, wo is
me for poor Marian, shivering in her slight silken kirtle in the
midst of a faded bower!

So that we were sometimes compelled per-force to change our fancy,
metamorphose Marian into a formidable Girzy, and provide her with
a suit of linsey-woolsey against the weather, and a pair of pattens
big enough to have frightened all the fallow-deer of the forest
with their clatter.

Ivanhoe, however, has played the deuce with our ideal creations, and
Robin Hood is now fixed to us for ever in the guise of the yeoman Locksley.
We do not like him half so well as we did before.

He has, in some degree, compromised his character as an outlaw, by
entering into an arrangement with him of the Lion-heart, and he now
shoots deer under cover of the kingly license.
"At the coffee house in Bedfordbury."

"Does she keep it?"

"Yes, sir."

"And what do _you_ do?"

"Wait on the customers--sometimes."

"And sometimes you sing in the streets--round the taverns, eh?"

"Only when mother drives me out."

"Oh. She ill treats you, does she? That bruise on your shoulder--was it
her work?"

The girl nodded.

"You wouldn't mind if you left your mother and did nothing but sing?"

"Oh, that would be joy," cried the girl squeezing her hands tightly
together to stifle her emotions. "But how can I?"

"It may be managed, perhaps. I must see your mother----"

He was interrupted by a deafening roar--hoarse, shrill, raucous,
unmistakably drunken. A huge, ragged multitude had poured into the High
Street from St. Martin's Lane, jostling, fighting, cursing, eager for
devilment, no matter what. They rushed to the hostelries, they
surrounded the street sellers of gin, demanding the fiery poisonous
stuff for which they had no intention of paying.

The landlord of the "Maiden Head" hurried into the room somewhat
perturbed.

"Best shut the window, gentlemen," said he. "This vile scum's none too
nice. Anything it wants it'll take without so much as by your leave, or
with your leave."

"What does it mean, landlord?" asked Bolingbroke.

"Oh's all over Jack Sheppard. The people are mad about the rascal just
because the turnkeys couldn't hold him, nor prison walls for the matter
o' that. He was clever in slipping out o' prison I grant ye. Well, sirs,
his body was to be handed over to the surgeons like the rest o' the
Tyburn gentry, but his friends would have none of it. A bailiff somehow
got hold of the corpse to make money out of it--trust them sharks for
_that_ when they see a chance--an' smuggled it to his house in Long
Acre. It got wind afore many hours was past and the mob broke into the
place, the Foot Guards was called out an' there's been no end of a
rumpus."

"Faith, my poor Gay," said Bolingbroke with a sardonic smile, "the
people make more fuss over a burglar than over a ballad maker. And
what's become of the noble Sheppard's body, landlord?"

"It's hidden somewhere. They say as it'll be buried to-night in St.
Martin's Churchyard. So the people'll get their way after all."

"As they mostly do if they make noise enough," rejoined Bolingbroke
refreshing himself with a pinch of snuff.

"Yes, your honour, and----"

The sound of a loud high pitched, strident voice floated into the room
through the open window. Gay, whose eyes had never shifted from the girl
outside, saw her cheeks suddenly blanch. She looked round hurriedly like
a frightened rabbit seeking a way of escape.

"Bring the girl in, landlord," exclaimed the poet hastily. "She'll come
to harm else. Lord! Look at those drunken beasts. No--no"--the landlord
was about to shut the latticed windows--"run to the door, child. Quick."

A howling sottish mob mad with drink, clamouring, gesticulating, men and
women jostling each other, embracing vulgarly, their eyes glassy, their
faces flushed, was approaching the inn.

The mob was headed by a handsome woman. She was in the plenitude of
fleshly charms. Her dress, disordered, showed her round solidly built
shoulders, her ample bust. Some day unless her tastes and her manner of
life altered she would end in a bloway drab, every vestige of beauty
gone in masses of fat. But at that moment she was the model of a
reckless Bacchante, born for the amusement and aggravation of man.

Her maddening eyes were directed on the Maiden Head inn. Her full lips
were parted in a harsh boisterous laugh; her white teeth gleamed; the
blood ran riot in her veins; she was the embodiment of exuberant,
semi-savage, animal life. She danced up to the open window. The sight of
the sleeping Lance Vane had drawn her thither.

Up to that moment Lavinia Fenton's back was towards the woman. Lavinia
tried to get away without notice, but the Bacchante's escort was too
numerous, too aggressive, too closely packed. They hoped for some fun
after their own tastes.

"Mercy on me," muttered Gay apprehensively, "that impudent hussy, Sally
Salisbury. And drunk too. This means trouble. Dick," he whispered
hurriedly to Leveridge, "you can use your fists if need be. I've seen
you have a set-to in Figg's boxing shed. That girl's in danger. Sally's
bent on mischief. There's murder in her eyes. Come with me."

Leveridge nodded and followed his friend out of the room.

Gay's action was none too prompt. No sooner had Sally
Salisbury--destined to be, a few years later, the most notorious woman
of her class--set eyes on the girl than her brows were knitted and her
lips and nostrils went white. Her cheeks on the other hand blazed with
fury. She gripped the shrinking girl and twisted her round. Then she
thrust her face within a few inches of Lavinia's.

"What do you mean by coming here, you squalling trollop?" she screamed.
"How dare you poach on my ground, you----"

How Sally finished the sentence can be very well left to take care of
itself.

Lavinia despite her terror of the beautiful virago never lost her
self-control.

"You're welcome to this ground every inch of it, but I suppose I've as
much right to walk on it as you have," said she.

"Don't talk to me, you little trull, or you'll drive me to tear your
eyes out. Take that."

With the back of her disengaged hand she struck the girl's cheek.


CHAPTER II

"GO YOUR OWN WAY YOU UNGRATEFUL MINX"


The mob roared approval at the prospect of a fight, and though the
combatants were unfairly matched some of the ruffians urged the girl to
retaliate.

"Go for her hair, little un," one shouted. "There's plenty of it. Once
you get a fair hold and tear out a handful she'll squeak, I'll warrant."

The advice was not taken and maybe nobody expected it would be. Anyway,
before Sally could renew the attack her arm was seized by a man, slight
in stature and with a naturally humorous expression on his lean narrow
face and in his bright twinkling eyes.

"Enough of this brawling, mistress. If you _must_ fight choose someone
as big and as strong as yourself, not a lambkin."

The crowd knew him and whispers went round. "That's Spiller--Jemmy
Spiller the famous play actor." "No, is it though. Lord, he can make
folks laugh--ah, split their sides a'most. I see him last Saturday at
Master Rich's theayter in the Fields, and I thought I should ha' died."

Spiller was better at making people laugh than at holding an infuriated
woman. But he had two friends with him, stalwart butchers from Clare
Market, and he turned the task over to them with the remark that they
were used to handling mad cattle.

At this point Gay and Leveridge forced their way through the crowd. Gay
saw the red angry mark on the girl's pallid face and guessed the cause.
He drew her gently to him.

"Run inside the house. I'll join you presently," he whispered.

She thanked him with her eyes and vanished. Gay turned to Spiller.

"You deserve a double benefit at Drury Lane, Jemmy, for what you did
just now. That wild cat was about to use her claws," said he.

"Aye, and her teeth too, Mr. Gay."

"You'll need a mouthful of mountain port after that tussle. And your
friends as well, when they've disposed of Mistress Salisbury."

The butchers had removed her out of harm's way. Some of her lady friends
and sympathisers had joined her; and a couple of young "bloods" who had
come to see the fun of an execution, with money burning holes in their
pockets, being captured, the party subsided into the "Bowl" where a
bottle of wine washed away the remembrance of Sally Salisbury's
grievance. But she vowed vengeance on the "squalling chit" sooner or
later.

Meanwhile the object of Sally Salisbury's hoped for revenge was sitting
in a dark corner of the coffee room of the Maiden Head tavern. She felt
terribly embarrassed and answered Bolingbroke's compliments in
monosyllables. He pressed her to take some wine but she refused. To her
great relief he did not trouble her with attentions.

Then Gay entering with Spiller and his butcher friends, and Leveridge,
as soon as he could, approached her.

"Tell me, Polly,--my tongue refuses to say Lavinia--how you have
offended that vulgar passionate woman?"

"I don't know. Jealousy, I suppose. She's burning to sing but she can't.
Sing, why she sets one's teeth on edge! It might be the sharpening of a
knife on a grindstone. She would be a play actress, and Mrs. Barry at
Drury Lane promised to help her, but they quarrelled. Sally wanted to be
a great actress all at once, but you can't be, can you, sir?"

She looked at the poet earnestly. Her large grey eyes were wonderfully
expressive, and Gay did not at once answer. He was thinking how sweet
was the face, and how musical and appealing the voice.

"True, child, and that you should say it shows your good sense. Wait
here a few minutes and then you shall take me to your mother."

Gay crossed the room to his friends, and they talked together in low
voices. Spiller and Leveridge had much to say--indeed it was to these
two, who had practical knowledge of the theatre, to whom he appealed.
Bolingbroke sat silently listening.

Gay's project concerning his new found protégée was such as would only
have entered into the brain of a dreamy and impecunious poet. He saw in
Lavinia Fenton the making of a fine actress--not in tragedy but in
comedy--and of an enchanting singer. But to be proficient she must be
taught not only music, but how to pronounce the English language
properly. She had to a certain extent picked up the accent of the
vulgar. It was impossible, considering her surroundings and
associations, to be otherwise. But proper treatment and proper
companions would soon rid her of this defect.

Both Spiller and Leveridge agreed she was fitted for the stage. But how
was she to be educated? And what was the use of education while she was
living in a Bedfordbury coffee house!

"She must be sent to a boarding school and be among gentlefolk,"
declared Gay energetically.

"Excellent," said Bolingbroke, speaking for the first time, "and may I
ask who will pay for the inestimable privilege of placing her among the
quality?"

The irony in St. John's voice did not go unnoticed by Gay, but he
continued bravely.

"I will, if her mother won't."

"You? My good friend, you can scarce keep yourself. But 'tis like you to
add to the burden of debt round your neck rather than reduce it. Have
you been left a fortune? Have your dead South Sea Shares come back to
life?"

"Nay, Bolingbroke, don't remind me of my folly," rejoined Gay, a little
piqued. "We can't always be wise. Thou thyself--but let that pass, the
future is the foundation of hope. Before long I shall be in funds. The
'Fables' will be in the booksellers' hands ere the month is out."

"Oh, that's well. But the booksellers, though eager enough to sell their
wares, are not so ready to pay the writer his due. Moreover if I know
anything of John Gay, of a certainty all the money he puts in his pocket
will go out of the hole at the other end."

"I know--I know," rejoined the poet hastily. "But I'm not thinking alone
of the booksellers. It is a 'place' I shall have and an annual income
that will sweep away all my anxieties."

"Then you're in favour with the Princess and her obedient servant Sir
Robert--or is Walpole her master? What will the Dean of St. Patrick and
Mr. Pope say to your surrender?"

"No, no. I will never write a word in praise of either. There's not a
word in the 'Fables' that can be twisted into bolstering up the
Government."

"And you think to receive your comfortable 'place' out of pure
admiration of your poetical gifts? My poor Gay!"

"No. Friendship."

"Well, well, you must go your own way or you wouldn't be a poet. I leave
you to your commendable work of rescuing damsels in distress."

And after refreshing himself with a pinch of snuff Bolingbroke with a
wave of the hand to Gay and his friends strode from the room leaving the
poet with his pleasant face somewhat overcast.

But his chagrin did not last long. His natural buoyancy asserted itself
and he beckoned to Lavinia who was sitting primly on the edge of the
hard chair, her folded hands resting on her lap. Before she could cross
the room Spiller and Leveridge took up Bolingbroke's argument, and urged
Gay not to meddle further in the matter.

"Nay, why should I not? It would be a shame and a pity that so much good
talent should be wasted on the groundlings of St. Giles. Besides, there
is the girl herself," Gay lowered his voice. "You wouldn't have her be
like Sally Salisbury, Jemmy, would you? She has a good and innocent
nature. It will be torn to tatters if she be not looked after now. No.
Neither you nor Dick Leveridge will talk me out of my intent. Do you see
what misguided youth may easily come to? Look at your friend Vane."

Gay pointed to the sleeping young man.

"I know--I know. The young fool," returned Spiller a little angrily.
"Wine is Lancelot Vane's only weakness--well, not the only one, any
pretty face turns his head."

"He's not the worse for that provided a good heart goes with the pretty
face."

"Aye, _if_."

"Look after him then. When he awakens from his drunken fit he'll be like
clay in the hands of the potters."

"Faith, you're right, Mr. Gay, but there's one thing that'll protect
him--his empty purse. I doubt if he has a stiver left. I know he drew
some money from the _Craftsman_ yesterday."

"What, does he write for that scurrilous, venomous print?" cried Gay,
visibly disturbed.

"Not of his own will. He hates the paper and he hates Amherst, who owns
it. But what is a man to do when poverty knocks at the door?"

"That may be. Still--I wish he had nothing to do with that abusive
fellow, Nicholas Amherst, who calls himself 'Caleb D'Anvers,' why I know
not, unless he's ashamed of the name his father gave him. Do you know
that the _Craftsman_ is always attacking my friends, Mr. Pope, Dr.
Swift, Dr. Arbuthnot? As for myself--but that's no matter."

"Oh, Amherst's a gadfly, no doubt. But your friends can take care of
themselves. For every blow they get they can if it so pleases them, give
two in return."

"That's true, and I'll say nothing more. I wish your friend well rid of
the rascally D'Anvers. Look after him, Jemmy. Come Polly--let us to your
mother."

Both Spiller and Leveridge saw that Gay was not to be turned from his
resolution to help the girl, and presently she and her new found friend
were threading their way through a network of courts and alleys finally
emerging into the squalid thoroughfare between New Street and Chandos
Street.

The dirt and the poverty-stricken aspect of the locality did not deter
the poet from his intention. Bedfordbury was not worse than St. Giles.
He who studies cannot follow a commercial life; neither can the
merchant devote his time to study.

There is no occasion to light thy lamp at noontide.

If thy friends agree in calling thee an ass, go and get a halter
around thee.

At the gate of abundance there are many brothers and friends; at the
gate of misery there is neither brother not friend.

The consciousness of God's presence is the first principle of
religion.

A man's home means his wife.

He who divorces his wife is hated before God.

If thy wife is small, bend down to take her counsel.

The daughter is as the mother was.

Do not confine your children to your own learning, for they were
born in another time.

What the child says out of doors he has learned indoors.

This world is an ante-chamber to the next.

The just of all nations have a portion in the future reward.

Every nation has its special guardian angel, its horoscopes, its ruling
planets and stars. But there is no planet for Israel. Israel shall
look but to God.

There is no mediator between those who are called His children and their
Father which is in heaven.

From the very spoon that the carver carved, he has to swallow hot mustard.

The laborer is allowed to shorten his prayers.

He who teaches his son to trade is as if he taught him to steal.

The laborer at his work need not rise before the greatest doctor.

Life is a passing shadow, says the Scripture. Is it the shadow of a tower
or a tree? A shadow which prevails for a while? No. It is the shadow
of a bird in its flight--away flies the bird, and there is neither
bird nor shadow.

Man's passions at first are like a cobweb's thread, at last become like
the thickest cable.

Were it not for the existence of passions no one would build a house,
marry a wife, beget children, or do any work.

There is not a single bird more persecuted than the dove, yet God has
chosen her to be offered upon the altar. The bull is hunted by the
lion, the sheep by the wolf, the goat by the tiger. And God said: "Bring
me a sacrifice, not from those that persecute, but from them that
are persecuted."

Prayer is Israel's only weapon, a weapon inherited from his fathers,
a weapon tried in a thousand battles.

When the righteous die, they live; for their example lives.

Let the fruit pray for the welfare of the leaf.

Meat without salt is fit only for the dogs.

Trust not thyself until the day of thy death.

Woe to the country which hath lost its leader; woe to the ship when
its captain is no more.

He who increaseth his flesh but multiplieth food for the worms.

The day is short, the labor great, and the workman slothful.

Be yielding to thy superior; be affable toward the young; be friendly
with all mankind.

Silence is the fence round wisdom.

Without law, civilization perishes.

Every man will surely have his hour.

Rather be the tail among lions than the head among foxes.

Into the well which supplies thee with water cast no stones.

Many a colt's skin is fashioned to the saddle which its mother
bears.

Truth is heavy, therefore few care to carry it.

Say little and do much.

He who multiplieth words will likely come to sin.

Sacrifice thy will for others, that they may be disposed to sacrifice
their wills for thee.

Study to-day, delay not.

Look not upon thy prayers as on a task; let thy supplications be
sincere.

He who is loved by man is loved by God.

Honor the sons of the poor; they give to science its splendor.

Do not live near a pious fool.

A small coin in a large jar makes a great noise.

Use thy noble vase to-day; to-morrow it may break.

The cat and the rat make peace over a carcass.

He who walks each day over his estate finds a coin daily.

The dog follows thee for the crumbs in thy pocket.

The soldiers fight, and the kings are heroes.

When the ox is down many are the butchers.

Descend a step in choosing thy wife; ascend a step in choosing thy
friend.

Beat the gods and their priests will tremble.

The sun will set without thy assistance.

Hold no man responsible for his utterances in times of grief.

One man eats, another says grace.

He who curbs his wrath merits forgiveness for his sins.

Commit a sin twice and it will not seem to thee a crime.

While our love was strong we lay on the edge of a sword, now a couch
sixty yards wide is too narrow for us.

Study is more meritorious than sacrifice.

Jerusalem was destroyed because the instruction of the young was
neglected.

The world is saved by the breath of school children. Even to rebuild the
Temple, the schools must not be closed.

Blessed is the son who has studied with his father, and blessed the
father who has instructed his son.

Avoid wrath and thou wilt avoid sin; avoid intemperance and thou wilt
not provoke Providence.

When others gather, do thou disperse; when others disperse, gather.

When thou art the only purchaser, then buy; when other buyers are present,
be thou nobody.

The foolish man knows not an insult, neither does a dead man feel the
cutting of a knife.

Three shall not enter Paradise--the scoffer, the hypocrite, and the
slanderer.

Rabbi Gamaliel ordered his servant Tobi to bring something good
from the market, and he brought a tongue.

At another time he told him to bring something bad, and he also
returned with a tongue.

"Why did you on both occasions fetch a tongue?" the Rabbi asked. "It is
the source of good and evil," Tobi replied. "If it is good, there is
nothing better; if it is bad, there is nothing worse."
The forest trees once asked the fruit trees: "Why is the rustling of your
leaves not heard in the distance?"

The fruit trees replied: "We can dispense with the rustling to manifest
our presence; our fruits testify for us." The fruit trees then inquired
of the forest trees; "Why do your leaves rustle almost continually?"
"We are forced to call the attention of man to our existence."
Too many Captains sink the ship.

An old man is a trouble in the house; an old woman is a treasure
in the house.

Two pieces of coin in one bag make more noise than a hundred.

When the flood came over the earth and everything was threatened with
destruction, and every kind of beast came in pairs to Noah, the Lie,
too, asked admittance into the ark. Noah, however, refused. "Only pairs
may enter here," he said. The Lie went in search of a companion, and
at last met Vice, whom it invited to go to the ark. "I am willing
to keep company with thee, if thou wilt promise to give me all
thy earnings," said Vice. The Lie agreed, and they were both admitted
into the ark.

After they left the ark, the Lie regretted her agreement, and wished to
dissolve partnership with Vice, but it was too late, and thus it is
current that "what Lie earneth, Vice consumeth."
Support the aged without reference to religion; respect the learned
without reference to age.

Repent the day before thy death.

Ten measures of wisdom came into the world; the law of Israel
received nine measures, and the balance of the world one.

Ten measures of beauty came into the world; Jerusalem received nine
measures, and the rest of the world one.

The world stands on three pillars: law, worship, and charity.

When he who attends the synagogue regularly is prevented from being
present, God asks for him.

His enemies will humble themselves before the one who builds a place of
worship.

He who is able to attend synagogue, and neglects to do so, is a bad
neighbor.

One need not stand upon a high place to pray, for it is written,
"Out of the depths have I called unto Thee, oh Lord."

The same Rabbi prohibits moving about or talking during the progress
of prayers, enlarging on Solomon's advice, "Keep thy foot when thou
goest into the house of the Lord, and be more ready to hear than
to offer the sacrifice of fools."

The cock and the owl both await daylight. "The light," says the cock,
"brings me delight; but what in the world art thou waiting for?"
The thief who finds no opportunity to steal, considers himself an
honest man.

A Galilean said, "When the shepherd is angry with his flock, he
appoints for its leader a blind bellwether."
Though it is not incumbent upon thee to complete the work, thou
must not therefore cease from pursuing it.

If the work is great, great will be thy reward, and thy Master is
faithful in His payments.

There are three crowns: of the law, the priesthood, and the kingship;
but the crown of a good name is greater than them all.

Who gains wisdom? He who is willing to receive instruction from all sources.
Who is the mighty man? He who subdueth his temper. Who is rich?

He who is content with his lot. Who is deserving of honor? He who honoreth
mankind.

Despise no man and deem nothing impossible; every man hath his hour and
everything its place.

Iron breaks stone; fire melts iron; water extinguishes fire; the
clouds consume water; the storm dispels clouds; man withstands the
storm; fear conquers man; wine banishes fear; sleep overcomes wine,
and death is the master of sleep; but "charity," says Solomon,
"saves even from death."

How canst thou escape sin?

Think of three things: whence thou comest, whither thou goest, and
before whom thou must appear.

The scoffer, the liar, the hypocrite, and the slanderer can have no
share in the future world of bliss. To slander is to commit
murder.

Cold water morning and evening is better than all the cosmetics.

The question is asked, "Why is man born with hands clinched, but
has his hands wide open in death?"

And the answer is: "On entering the world, man desires to grasp everything;
but when leaving it he takes nothing away."

Two dry logs and one wet; the dry ones kindle the wet.

He who seeks for a faultless brother will have to remain brotherless.

A town which has no school should be abolished.

Jerusalem was destroyed because the instruction of the young was
neglected.

He who instructs a child is as if he had created it.

The teachers are the guardians of the State.

Learn first and philosophize afterward.

To what may he be compared who teaches a child? To one who writes on clean
paper; and to what may he be compared who teaches an old man? To one who
writes on blotted paper.

Be eager to acquire knowledge; it does not come to thee by
inheritance.

Four dispositions are found among those who sit for instruction,
before the wise, and they may be respectively compared to a sponge,
a funnel, a strainer, and a sieve; the sponge imbibes all, the
funnel receives at one end and discharges at the other, the strainer
suffers the wine to pass through, but retains the lees, and the
sieve recovers the bran, but retains the fine flour.

To pray loudly is not a necessity of devotion; when we pray we must direct
our hearts toward heaven.

Charity is greater than all.

Who gives charity in secret is greater than Moses.

He finds authority for this saying in the words of Moses, "For I was
afraid of the anger," and the words of Solomon which he presents as an
answer, "A gift given in secret pacifieth anger."

A miser is as wicked as an idolater.

Charity is more than sacrifices.

"He who gives (charity) becomes rich," or as it is written, "A beneficent
soul will be abundantly gratified."
One day a philosopher inquired of Rabbi Akiba, "If your God loves
the poor, why does He not support them?"

"God allows the poor to be with us ever," responded Akiba, "that
the opportunities for doing good may never fail."
"But," returned the philosopher, "how do you know that this virtue of
charity pleases God? If a master punishes his slaves by depriving
them of food and clothing, does he feel pleased when others feed and
clothe them?"
"But suppose, on the other hand," said the Rabbi, "that the children
of a tender father, children whom he could no longer justly assist,
had fallen into poverty, would he be displeased if kind souls pitied
and aided them?

We are not the slaves of a hard master. God calls us His children, and
Himself we call our Father."
When one stands at the judgment-seat of God these questions
are asked:-- 
"Hast thou been honest in all thy dealings?"

"Hast thou set aside a portion of thy time for the study of the law?"
"Hast thou observed the first commandment?"
"Hast thou, in trouble, still hoped and believed in God?"
"Hast thou spoken wisely?"
All the blessings of a household come through the wife, therefore should
her husband honor her.

Men should be careful lest they cause women to weep, for God counts
their tears.

In cases of charity, where both men and women claim relief, the latter
should be first assisted. If there should not be enough for both, the
men should cheerfully relinquish their claims.

A woman's death is felt by nobody as by her husband.

Tears are shed on God's altar for the one who forsakes his first love.

He who loves his wife as himself, and honors her more than himself, will
train his children properly; he will meet, too, the fulfillment
of the verse, "And thou shalt know that there is peace in thy tent,
and thou wilt look over thy habitation and shall miss nothing."

I never call my wife "wife," but "home," for she, indeed, makes my
home.

He who possesses a knowledge of God, and a knowledge of man, will
not easily commit sin.

The Bible was given us to establish peace.

He who wrongs his fellow-man, even in so small a coin as a penny, is as
wicked as if he should take life.

He who raises his hand against his fellow in passion is a sinner.

Be not the friend of one who wears the cloak of a saint to cover
the deformities of a fool.

One who gives way to passion is as bad as an idolater.

Hospitality is as great a virtue as studying the law.

"Never put thyself in the way of temptation," advised Rabbi Judah;
"even David could not resist it."

Rabbi Tyra, on being asked by his pupils to tell them the secret
which gained him a happy, peaceful old age, replied, "I have never
cherished anger with my family; I have never envied those greater
than myself, and I have never rejoiced in the downfall of any one."

Unhappy is he who mistakes the branch for the tree, the shadow for the
substance.

Thy yesterday is thy past; thy to-day thy future; thy to-morrow is a
secret.

The best preacher is the heart; the best teacher is time; the best
book is the world; the best friend is God.

Life is but a loan to man; death is the creditor who will one day
claim it.

Understand a man by his own deeds and words. The impressions of
others lead to false judgment.

He through whose agency another has been falsely punished stands
outside of heaven's gates.

The sins of the bad-tempered are greater than his merits.

The man who sins is foolish as well as wicked.

The good actions which we perform in this world take form and meet us
in the world to come.

Better to bear a false accusation in silence, than by speaking to bring
the guilty to public shame.

He who can feel ashamed will not readily do wrong.

There is a great difference between one who can feel ashamed before his
own soul and one who is only ashamed before his fellow-man.

God's covenant with us included work; for the command, "Six days
shalt thou work and the seventh shalt thou rest," made the "rest"
conditional upon the "work."

     God first told Adam to dress the Garden of Eden, and to keep it,
and then permitted him to eat of the fruit of his labor.

     God did not dwell in the midst of Israel till they had worked to
     deserve His presence, for he commanded, "They shall make me a
     sanctuary, and then I will dwell in the midst of them."
     When Jerusalem was in the hands of the Romans, one of their
     philosophers asked of the Rabbis:--
     "If your God dislikes idolatry, why does He not destroy the idols
     and so put temptation out of the way?"
     The wise men answered:--

     "Would you have the sun and the moon destroyed because of the foolish
     ones who worship them? To change the course of nature to punish
     sinners, would bring suffering to the innocent also."
     Rabbi Judah said:--
"He who refuses to teach a precept to his pupil is guilty of theft,
just as one who steals from the inheritance of his father; as it
is written, (The law which Moses commanded us is the inheritance
of the congregation of Jacob.) But if he teaches him, what is his
reward?" 
Raba says, "He will obtain the blessing of Joseph."
Rabbi Eleazer said:--
"That house where the law is not studied by night should be
destroyed.
"The wealthy man who aids not the scholar desirous of studying God's
law will not prosper.
"He who changes his word, saying one thing and doing another, is
even as he who serveth idols."
Rabbi Chamah, the son of Pappa, said:--
"He who eats or drinks and blesses not the Lord, is even as he who
stealeth, for it is said, 'The heavens are the heavens of the Lord,
and the earth hath He given to the children of men.'"
Rabbi Simon, the son of Lakish, said:--
"They who perform one precept in this world will find it recorded
for their benefit in the world to come; as it is written, 'Thy
righteousness will go before thee, the glory of the Lord will gather
thee in.' And the same will be the case, in contrast, with those
who sin. For the Bible says, 'Which I commanded thee this day to
do them,' to 'do them,' the precepts, to-day, though the reward is
not promised to-day; but in the future, ordinances obeyed, will
testify in thy favor, for 'thy righteousness will go before thee.'"

The Rabbis pronounced those the "friends of God," who being offended
thought not of revenge; who practiced good through love for God,
and who were cheerful under suffering and difficulties. Of such
Isaiah wrote, "They shall shine forth like the sun at noonday."
* * * * *
Love thy wife as thyself; honor her more than thyself. He who lives
unmarried, lives without joy. If thy wife is small, bend down to
her and whisper in her ear. He who sees his wife die, has, as it
were, been present at the destruction of the sanctuary itself. The
children of a man who marries for money will prove a curse to
him.
He who has more learning than good deeds is like a tree with many
branches but weak roots; the first great storm will throw it to the
ground. He whose good works are greater than his knowledge is like
a tree with fewer branches but with strong and spreading roots, a
tree which all the winds of heaven cannot uproot.

* * * * *
Better is the curse of the righteous man than the blessing of the
wicked. Better the curse of Achia, the Shelonite, than the blessing
of Bil'am, the son of Beor. Thus did Achia curse the Israelites,
"And the Lord will smite Israel as the reed is shaken in the water."
The reed bends but it breaks not, for it groweth by the water, and
its roots are strong. Thus did Bil'am bless Israel, "As cedar trees
beside the waters." Cedars do not grow beside the waters: their
roots are weak, and when strong winds blow they break in pieces.
* * * * *
A very wealthy man, who was of a kind, benevolent disposition,
desired to make his slave happy. He gave him, therefore, his freedom,
and presented him with a shipload of merchandise.
"Go," said he, "sail to different countries, dispose of these goods,
and that which thou mayest receive for them shall be thy own."
The slave sailed away upon the broad ocean, but before he had been
long upon his voyage a storm overtook him; his ship was driven on
a rock and went to pieces; all on board were lost, all save this
slave, who swam to an island shore near by. Sad, despondent, with
naught in the world, he traversed this island, until he approached
a large and beautiful city; and many people approached him joyously,
shouting, "Welcome! welcome!
Long live the king!" They brought a rich carriage, and placing him
therein, escorted him to a magnificent palace, where many servants
gathered about him, clothing him in royal garments, addressing him
as their sovereign, and expressing their obedience to his will.
The slave was amazed and dazzled, believing that he was dreaming,
and all that he saw, heard, and experienced was mere passing
fantasy.
Becoming convinced of the reality of his condition, he said to some
men about him for whom he experienced a friendly feeling:--
"How is this? I cannot understand it. That you should thus elevate
and honor a man whom you know not, a poor, naked wanderer, whom you
have never seen before, making him your ruler, causes me more wonder
than I can readily express."I will only have you, my
     beauteous Lavinia. I swear to you by all the gods that you shall be
     back at school before dawn, as on the night of the dance when I
     first saw my adorable divinity. No one will know but us two. It
     will be a delicious secret. After I have seen you safely to Queen
     Square and have parted from my dearest--it will be misery to bid
     thee adieu--I shall ride post haste to my father and tell him
     everything. He will at first be angry, but he will relent when he
     sees your loveliness. We shall be forgiven and Heaven will be ours.

     "Panting with impatience, ever your most devoted humble servant,

                                              ARCHIBALD DORRIMORE."


Present taste would pronounce this effusion to be extravagant,
rhapsodical, high-flown, super-sentimental, but it did not read so to
Lavinia. It was in the fashion of the times--indeed it approached nearer
modern ideas than the majority of love letters of that day which
generally began with "Madam" without any endearing prefix. Lavinia liked
it none the less because it was not so formal as the letters which some
girls had shown her in all pride and secrecy.

But it troubled her all the same.

"I wonder if I really--really love him," she mused. "I suppose I do or I
shouldn't be continually thinking about him. But to be married--oh,
that's a different thing. Perhaps he'd want to live in the country.
That would be horribly dull, especially if he had to come to London
often. He hopes to be a great lawyer some day he says. I don't think I'd
like him in a wig and gown and white bands. He would look so horribly
old. Oh, but I wouldn't let him have his rooms in the Temple after we're
married. He'll have to burn his musty old books. He won't need them. His
father's very rich. He's told me so hundreds of times."

A half dozen times would have been nearer the mark and this would
probably represent the number of their meetings, once at a ball at
Sadler's Wells Gardens and afterwards at stolen opportunities which the
ingenious Lavinia contrived to bring about.

To tell the honest truth, Lavinia's gallant Archibald Dorrimore, the
young Templar, served only to amuse the young lady. She was not blind to
the fact that he was a fop and not blessed with too much brain. She had
seen many of his sort before and did not trust them. But Dorrimore
struck her as more sincere than the rest. Besides, he was very good
looking.

Lavinia couldn't help having admirers. Nature should not have endowed
her with such alluring, innocent looking eyes, with so sweet a mouth.
She had always had some infatuated young man hovering about her even
when she was her mother's drudge at the coffee house in Bedfordbury.
Perhaps she inherited flirting from that buxom, good-looking mother who
had the reputation of knowing her way quite well where a man was
concerned.

"Archibald Dorrimore will be _Sir_ Archibald some day," she mused. "It
would be rare to be called her ladyship. I can hear the footman saying:
'Your coach is waiting, my lady.' Lady Dorrimore--how well it sounds!
Archibald loves me...."

May be this conviction settled the matter. The girl slid out of bed and
dressed herself hurriedly, though eleven o'clock had only just struck
and she had plenty of time. Perhaps she thought that if she hesitated
any longer she might alter her mind and not be married after all.

Despite her haste she was not neglectful of herself. Now and again she
glanced at the little mirror over which the girls squabbled daily,
smoothed her rebellious hair and settled the Nithsdale hood of her cloak
coquettishly. Then she noiselessly crept from the room, flitted down the
staircase and was at the hall door shooting back its heavy
bolts--fortunately always kept well greased--and lifting the massive
chain which stretched across the centre. Street doors were well guarded
and ground floor windows barred in those days, and not without reason.

The moon was still shining brightly and Lavinia drew her hood closer
over her face, though there was little need, for the fields were
deserted. She turned to the east, keeping in the shadow, slight as it
was, of the school garden wall. When the "Conduit Head" at the top of
Red Lion Street (the northern end now known as Lamb's Conduit Street)
was reached she paused and her heart went pit-a-pat. If Dorrimore should
not be there!

She stopped, overcome by sudden scruples. In a flash her life at the
school, its monotony and discipline, the irksomeness of regular work,
rose before her! She had been some months at Miss Pinwell's
establishment and her restless soul pined for a change. Though she
looked back to her vagabond life in the streets with a shudder, she
yearned for its freedom, but without its degradations.

The step she was about to take, so she persuaded herself, meant freedom,
but it also meant ingratitude towards Gay and the duchess. For the
latter's opinion she did not care much. The imperious manner of her
grace was not to her taste. But Mr. Gay--that was a different thing. She
looked upon Gay as a father--of her own father she had but a shadowy
recollection--though sometimes she thought she detected in him signs of
a warmer affection than that which a father usually bestows on a
daughter. She did not want this. She liked his visits. She was glad to
have his praise. She laughed when he persisted in calling her Polly--why
she knew not--but she was sure she could never endure his making love to
her.

In her heart of hearts she was afraid of this. The dread had much to do
with her encouragement of Dorrimore. Of course if she married it would
mean an estrangement between her and Gay and his powerful friends, and
most likely the end of her ambition to be a great actress. Her mind had
long been torn, and at the eleventh hour when she was on her way to meet
her fate in Dorrimore she still hesitated. If she really loved Dorrimore
there would have been no hesitation. But she had never met any man who
did more than flatter her and gratify the pleasure she felt at being
admired.

Her decision was in the balance. The weight of a feather would turn the
scale one way or another. The feather came in the shape of Dorrimore
himself. There he was in three cornered hat and cloak, his powdered wig
white in the moonlight, pacing up and down, his hand resting on his
sword hilt. He caught sight of the shrinking figure in the shadow and
the hat was doffed in a profound bow. Undoubtedly a good looking young
man, but as undoubtedly a fop of the first water with his ruffles and
bosom of Mechlin lace, red heels to his shoes, gold clocks on his silk
stockings and the whiff of scent which heralded his coming.

When near enough his arm went round her and he drew back her hood. He
kissed her closely, so closely indeed that his ardour almost frightened
her, though she knew not why. He withdrew his lips and gazed into her
face, his own paling under the violence of his passion.

"Dearest Lavinia," he murmured. "You are the loveliest creature in the
world and I protest I am the luckiest of men. Have you no words of love
for me? Why so silent?"

She had not uttered a word. The rise and fall of her bosom showed her
agitation.

"I'm here. I'm here. Isn't that enough?" she faltered.

"Faith you're right, sweetheart. Then let us waste no time. My coach is
yonder."

He slid her arm within his and drew her forward. He was not unconscious
of a certain reluctance in her movements and a shyness in her manner,
but he put both down to maiden modesty. Her restraint made her all the
more enchanting and he quickened his pace. She was compelled to
accommodate her steps to his, but she did so unwillingly. A sudden
distrust whether of him or of herself she could not quite determine--had
seized her. She was repenting her rashness. She would have run from him
back to the school but that he held her too tightly. Within another
minute they had reached the heavy lumbering coach.

The coachman had seen them coming and descended from his box to open the
door. He was a big fellow who held himself erect like a soldier. His
swarthy complexion had a patch of purplish bloom spreading itself over
the cheek bones which told of constant tavern lounging. A pair of hawk's
eyes gleamed from under bushy beetling brows; wide loose lips and a
truculent, pugnacious lower jaw completed the picture of a ruffian.

Lavinia glanced at him and that glance was enough, it deepened her
distrust into repugnance. But she had no time to protest. She was
hurried into the coach, Dorrimore in fact lifting her inside bodily with
unnecessary violence for she was almost thrown into a corner of the back
seat. Dorrimore followed, turned, shut the door and almost immediately
the carriage moved. The coachman must have sprung to his box with the
quickness of a harlequin. The whip cracked and the horses broke into a
gallop.


CHAPTER IV

"IF WE'RE NOT TO BE MARRIED TELL ME"


The rattle of the wheels over the loose, roughly laid cobble stones, and
the swaying carriage hung on leathers, forbade talking. Lavinia heard
her companion's voice but she did not know what he was saying. Not that
it mattered for she was in too much of a flutter to heed anything but
her own emotions, and these were so confused that they told her little.

Then Dorrimore's arm stole round her waist. Well, this was not
unnatural. Would they not be soon man and wife? The puzzle was that she
had no feeling of response. She would rather that he did not embrace
her. She did not want to be noticed. Yet she could not find it in her
heart to be unkind, so she allowed him to draw her nearer, to let her
head droop on his shoulder. She tried to think it was pleasant to be so
loved and she lowered her eyelashes when he kissed her again and again.

Two or three minutes of oblivion. The coach had raced down Red Lion
Street. It was in Holborn going eastwards and here the din and clatter
were heightened by the shouts of drunken roisterers. The overhanging
houses cast deep shadows and the coach was travelling in the gloom. It
was past midnight and the lamps hung at every tenth house were
extinguished. This was the rule.

Then Lavinia became conscious that the carriage was going down hill. It
had passed Fetter Lane into which it should have turned and was
proceeding towards Holborn Bridge. Why was this? Fetter Lane led into
Fleet Street and so to the Fleet. Had the coachman misunderstood his
instructions? She wrenched herself free and looked out of the window.
She recognised St. Andrew's Church in Holborn Valley. She turned
swiftly and faced Dorrimore. The coach had crossed the bridge and had
commenced the steep ascent of Holborn Hill on the other side. The horses
had slackened their pace. The noise was less loud.

"You said we were going to the Fleet, but we're not. Where are you
taking me?"

"Don't trouble about such a trifle, darling little one," he cried gaily.
"Aren't you with me? What more do you want? Come, kiss me. Let us forget
everything but our two selves."

He would have embraced her but she repulsed him angrily.

"No. If you've altered your mind--if we're not to be married tell me so,
and I'll leave you to yourself," she cried agitatedly.

"Leave me? And d'you think I'll let you go when you're looking handsomer
than ever? Faith, what d'you take me for? You dear fluttering little
Venus. Why, you're trembling? But hang me, it must be with joy as I am."

Both his arms were round her. She struggled to free herself; pushed his
face away and panting, strove to reach the window, but he was strong and
prevented her.

"I'll go no further with you," she cried. "Set me down at once or I'll
scream for help."

"You pretty little fool. Much help you'll get here. Oh, you shall look
if you want to, but your wings must be clipped first."

He gripped both her wrists and held them fast. Her frightened eyes
glanced through the window. She heard a confused thud of hoofs, now and
again the deep bellowing of cattle, in the distance dogs barking,
drivers yelling. She could see horned heads moving up and down. The
coach was now moving very slowly. It was surrounded by a drove of
bullocks from the Essex marshes going to Smithfield.

"You see?" laughed Dorrimore. "D'you suppose I would set you down to be
tossed and gored by vulgar cattle. Why the sight of your red ribands
would send them mad, as it's nearly sent me."

"I don't care. I'd rather be with them than with you. I hate you," she
screamed with tears in her voice.

"Really? I'll warrant your hate'll turn to love before we part," he
jeered. "I'm not going to see you come to harm, so I shall hold your
pretty wrists tightly. How round and slender they are! So, you're my
prisoner."

"I'm not and I won't be."

Somehow she dragged her right wrist away and dealt him a smart blow on
his cheek.

"You would fight, would you? What a little spitfire it is! No matter. I
love you all the better. For every smart you give me you shall be repaid
with a dozen kisses. If that isn't returning good for evil may I never
handle a dice box again. There, do as you like. Lay your white hand
again on my face. The bigger debt you run up the better."

Despite his banter he was very savage and he flung her hands from him.
She at once laid hold of the strap to open the window. He burst into a
loud laugh.

"So the bird would escape," said he mockingly. "I thought as much."

She tugged at the strap but tugged in vain. The window refused to budge.
Then it flashed across her mind that it was all part of a plan. She was
to be trapped. The story of a Fleet marriage was a concoction to bait
the trap. She flung herself in the corner, turned her back upon her
captor and pulled her hood over her face.

She knew that for the time being she was helpless. What was the good of
wasting her strength in struggles, her spirit in remonstrance and be
laughed at for her pains? So she sat sullenly and turned a deaf ear to
Dorrimore's triumphant endearments.

That wrestle with the window strap had done one thing. It had told her
where she was. Lavinia knew her London well. Her rambles as a child had
not been confined to Charing Cross and St. Giles. She had often wandered
down to London Bridge. She loved the bustling life on the river; she
delighted in gazing into the shop windows of the quaint houses on the
bridge which to her youthful imagination seemed to be nodding at each
other, for so close were some that their projecting upper storeys nearly
touched.

She decided in that confused glance of hers through the window that the
coach was nearing the extreme end of the Poultry. She recognised the
Poultry Compter with its grim entrance and wondered whether the coach
would go straight on to Cornhill and then turn northward towards
Finsbury Fields, or southward to London Bridge.

For the moment all she thought of was her destination, and when she was
able without attracting her companion's, attention again to peep out of
the window she saw the coach was at the foot of London Bridge. The
driver had been compelled to walk his horses, so narrow and so dark was
the passage way.

The nightbirds of London were on their rambles looking out for prey; the
bridge was thronged. The people for the most part were half drunk--they
were the scourings from the low taverns in the Southwark Mint. Lavinia
had been revolving a plan of escape, but to launch herself among an
unruly mob ready for any devilry might be worse than remaining where she
was. But in spite of all that she did not cease to think about her plan
and watched for an opportunity when the worst of the rabble should have
passed.

Suddenly the coach came to a standstill. Shouts and oaths--more of the
latter than the former--were heard, and Dorrimore after fretting and
fuming lowered the window on his side and put out his head.

"What the devil's hindering you?" he demanded angrily, of the coachman.

"That monstrously clumsy waggon; the stubborn knave of a waggoner has
gotten the middle of the road and there he sticks. He'll draw neither to
the left or the right. I've a mind to get down and baste the surly
bumpkin's hide."

"Don't be a fool. Keep where you are. We must wait. Speak him fair."

Two things struck Lavinia. One was the open window. Evidently Dorrimore
had thought it only necessary to secure one window--that on the side
where she was sitting. If she were on the opposite side how easy to slip
her hand through the opening and turn the handle of the door. But this
was impossible. She could not hope to succeed.

The other thing which fixed itself in her mind was the familiar tone of
the coachman towards Dorrimore. It was more that of an equal than of a
menial. This impression confirmed her suspicion that she was trapped.
Dorrimore had doubtless enlisted the services of a confidential friend
rather than trust to a servant whose blabbing tongue might serve to
betray him.

Meanwhile Dorrimore's head was still out of the window. He was calling
to the waggoner and offering him a crown to pull his horses and load to
one side, but it was no easy task to move the gigantic lumbering wain
with its tilt as big as a haystack and its wheels a foot thick. Lavinia
had her eyes fixed at the window on her side, intent on watching a
little group of persons who were curious to see the result of the
deadlock. They were quietly disposed apparently.

Swiftly she bent down, slipped off one of her high heeled shoes and
straightened her body. The next moment there was the crash of broken
glass. She had struck the window with the heel of her shoe and had
thrust her hand through the jagged hole, turned the handle, opened the
door and had jumped out. Dorrimore, intent upon parleying with the
waggoner, had either not heard the smash or had attributed the cause to
anything but the real one.

The group were startled by the flying figure. In her haste and agitation
she had stumbled on alighting and would have fallen but for a man who
caught her.

"S'death madam, are you hurt?" she heard him say.

"No, no. For Heaven's sake don't stay me. I'm in great danger. I'm
running from an enemy. Oh, let me go--let me go!"

"But you're wounded. See."

Blood was on her arm. A drop or two had fallen on the man's ruffles. She
had cut herself in her wild thrust through the jagged hole in the door.

"It's nothing," she breathed. "Oh, if you've any pity don't keep me."

The man made no reply. He whipped out his handkerchief, tied it round
the cut and holding her arm tightly, forced a way through the crowd
towards the Southwark side of the bridge.

He might have got her away unobserved had it not been for Dorrimore's
coachman. The fellow uttered a yell and leaving his horses to take care
of themselves leaped from the box.

"A guinea to any one who stops that woman," he shouted.

Lavinia and her companion had nearly reached the obstructive waggon. A
dozen persons or so were between them and the yelling coachman. If they
succeeded in passing the waggon there might be a chance of escaping in
the darkness. But the onlookers crowding between the obstruction and the
shops--there were in those days no pavements--were too much interested
in what was going on to move, and the two found themselves wedged in a
greasy, ragged mob.

Then came a rush from behind by those eager to earn a guinea and things
became worse. The girl, helped by the young man--she had seen enough of
him to know that he was both young and good-looking--urged her way
through the crowd, and those in front, seeing she looked like a
gentlewoman and knowing nothing of the guinea offered for her capture
stood back and she passed through. At that moment she felt her
companion's grasp relax. Then his fingers slipped from her arm. Some one
had struck him.

"Run to the stairs and take a boat," he whispered. "Perhaps you haven't
any money. Here's my purse," and he pushed it into her hand.

"No, I won't have it," she faltered.

"You must. Quick! Fly!"

"But what of you?"

"I shall stay here, face the mob and give you time to get away."

She would have refused. She would have remained with her champion, but
the swaying mob ordered otherwise. She found herself separated from him
and carried onward whether she would or not. She was terribly frightened
and knew not what to do. Hoarse shouts pursued her; she heard the sound
of blows. Somehow no one seemed to notice her. Probably the fighting was
more to their taste. Suddenly she found herself alone. The archway
called the Traitors' Gate which then formed the entrance to the bridge
from the Surrey side was behind her. Crowds were pouring through the
Gate eager to see what the rumpus was about or to take part in it on the
chance of plunder, and they did not heed the shrinking figure in the
deep doorway of a house close to the bridge.

Lavinia was torn with anxiety. The young man whose purse she was holding
tightly--how was he faring? She could not help him by staying. Dorrimore
and Dorrimore's coachman with the guinea he had offered for her capture
had to be thought of. Her danger was by no means over. The roadway was
comparatively clear. Now was her chance if she was ever to have one.
She stole from the doorway; the stairs leading to the river were close
at hand and down these she sped.

The tide was at low ebb. She was standing on the shingle. But she looked
in vain for a waterman. There were plenty of boats on the river, most of
them loaded with merry parties returning from Spring Gardens, Vauxhall,
and no boats were plying for hire. She dared not ascend to the Borough.
Bullies and thieves abounded in the southern approaches to the bridge.
She crept down to one of the abutments of the bridge and tremulously
listened to the turmoil going on above.

Meanwhile the man who had come to her rescue was being hardly pressed.
He was surrounded by a mob led by Dorrimore's coachman. It was not the
leader who had struck the blow which made him lose his hold of Lavinia's
arm, but one of the mob for no motive other than a love for brutality.
The coachman had forced his way to the front a minute or so afterwards.
Almost at the same time a stone hit Lavinia's champion in the cheek,
cutting it and drawing blood.

"Cowards!" he shouted. "If you're for fighting at least fight fair. Who
did that?" and he laid his hand on the hilt of his sword.

"At your service, sir. Give me the credit of it. Captain Jeremy Rofflash
isn't the man to let the chance of a little pretty sword play go by."

The speaker was the man who acted as Dorrimore's coachman. He was every
inch a braggadocio. There were many such who had been with Marlborough
and had returned to their native country to earn their living by their
wits and by hiring out their swords.

The fellow who called himself Jeremy Rofflash had not time to draw his
sword; the fist of the man he had thought to frighten had shot out swift
as an arrow, catching him between the eyes and tumbling him backwards.

At the sight of the young gallant's spirit a number of the mob
instantly ranged themselves on his side. Others came on like infuriated
animals on the off chance of Captain Jeremy Rofflash rewarding them for
their services.

"You'd better show these ruffians a clean pair of heels," whispered a
friendly voice in the young man's ear. "To Winchester Stairs--now's your
chance before yonder bully's on his feet."

It was good advice and Lancelot Vane, the young man, budding poet and
playwright, who had found himself involved in a dangerous squabble,
which might mean his death, over a girl whom he had only seen for a few
minutes, had the sense to take it. But it was no easy task to extricate
himself. A burly ruffian was approaching him with arm uplifted and
whirling a bludgeon. Vane caught the fellow a blow in the waist and he
immediately collapsed. Before the prostrate man could get his wind, Vane
darted through the Traitors' Gate and racing towards the Borough with a
score or so of the rabble after him, darted into the first opening he
came to.


CHAPTER V

"MANY A MAN WOULD GIVE A HANDFUL OF GUINEAS FOR A KISS FROM SALLY
SALISBURY"


The fugitive found himself in a narrow ill-smelling, vilely paved alley
to the east of the Borough. Tall, ugly, dirty houses bordered it on each
side, a thick greasy mud covered the uneven stones. Dimly he was
conscious of the sound of a window being opened here and there, of
hoarse shouts and shrill screams, of shadowy beings who doubtless were
men and women but who were more like ghosts than creatures of flesh and
blood.

But no one molested him. This might be explained by the fact that those
who saw him running took him to be some criminal fleeing from justice to
take sanctuary in the Southwark slums, an impression quite sufficient to
ensure their sympathy. At least, this was what at first happened.
Afterwards the mob took it into their heads to pursue him and for no
particular reason save devilry.

The seething crowd poured into the narrow alley. Like a hunted deer the
young man ran up one court and down another, stumbling now and again
half from exhaustion and half from the greasy mud covered stones. He
could hear his pursuers coming nearer and nearer, but his strength was
gone. He dragged himself a few steps further and staggered into a
doorway, sinking on the steps in an almost fainting condition.

The next moment the door behind him opened, a hand gripped his shoulder
and a woman's voice whispered:--

"Come inside. Make haste before you're seen."

The young man raised his head. He was dimly conscious of a handsome
face, of a pair of bold eyes staring into his.

"Come. Why are you waiting? Do you want to be murdered?" she cried
imperiously.

He struggled to his feet and she dragged him into the passage and closed
the door. Scarcely had she done so when the clatter of feet and a
confused sound of voices told that his pursuers were approaching. Had
they tracked him to the house? The point was at once settled by a loud
hammering at the door.

The woman half turned her head and cast a scornful look over her
shoulder.

"Knock away, you devils. You won't break those panels in a hurry. For
all that, the place isn't safe for you, Mr. Vane."

"What, you know me?"

She laughed. Her laughter was loud rather than musical.

"Haven't I seen you with many a merry party at Spring Gardens? Don't you
remember that mad night when one of your friends was full of wine?
Didn't I cut off the end of his periwig and throw it to the mob to be
scrambled for?"

Lancelot Vane's pale face flushed slightly. He hadn't a very precise
recollection of what had happened on that night of frolic and revelry.
Like the rest he had had his bottle or two. The full blooded handsome
woman whom nothing abashed, who could take her liquor like a man, whose
beauty fired the souls of the gallants hovering about her wrangling for
her smiles, was part of the confused picture that had remained in his
memory. He had some vague remembrance of having kissed her or that she
had kissed him--it didn't matter which it was, nothing mattered very
much when the wine was in and the wit was out.

Yet now when both were sober and her round, plump arm was round his
shoulders on the plea of supporting him he felt embarrassed, ashamed.

"I thank you, madam, for your help," he said hurriedly. "But I won't
bring trouble upon you. Those rascals are still clamouring for my
blood--why I know not--and if they once burst into the house you'll
suffer."

"They won't frighten me, but I wouldn't have you come to harm. There's a
way of escape. I'll show it you."

With her arm still round him though there was no necessity for his
strength was gradually returning, she led him up the first flight--some
half dozen steps--of a narrow staircase to a small window which she
threw open.

"That's the Black Ditch. It leads to the river and is fairly dry now
that the tide is out. You can easily find your way to Tooley Street."

"Thanks--thanks," he murmured.

He clambered on to the window sill and gradually lowered himself. While
his head, slightly thrown back, was above the sill she bent down swiftly
and kissed him full on the lips.

"Many a man would give a handful of guineas for a kiss from Sally
Salisbury. You shall have one for nothing. It mayn't bring you luck, but
what of that?"

He let go his hold, alighted safely on his feet and ran along the ditch,
every nerve quivering in a tumult of emotion, and with Sally Salisbury's
strident, reckless laugh ringing in his ears.

Sally leaned her elbows on the sill and craning her head watched the
receding figure of the young man. Then she straightened her body and
walked leisurely from the room into one at the front of the house on the
first floor. The hammering at the entrance door had never ceased. She
threw open the window and looked down upon the swaying crowd.

"What do you want?" she called out.

"The man you're hiding," was the reply in a hoarse voice.

"You lie. There's no man here."

"No man where Mistress Sally Salisbury is? Ho-ho!"

She knew the voice. It was that of Captain Jeremy Rofflash.

Seizing a lamp Sally Salisbury ran down the stairs and opened the door.
Holding the lamp high over her head the light fell with striking effect
upon her luxuriant yellow hair clustering down upon a neck and shoulders
that Juno might have envied. The resemblance did not stop here. Juno in
anger could have found her double in Sally Salisbury at that moment.
Evidently the visitor was unwelcome.

"What does this silly masquerade mean?" she demanded, her eyes roaming
over the coachman's livery in high displeasure. "Have you turned over a
new leaf and gone into honest service?"

"Honest service be damned! Honesty doesn't belong to me or to you
either, Sally. Where's the man I'm looking for? I twigged the fellow
just as you shut the door upon him."

"Did you? Then you're welcome to go on looking."

He strode in, muttering oaths. When the door was closed he turned upon
her.

"Hang me, Sally, if I know what your game is in sheltering this spark.
Anyhow you wouldn't do it if you didn't see your way to some coin out of
him."

"I don't, so shut up your sauce."

"More fool you then. Look here, Sal. I've got hold of a cull or I
shouldn't be in this lackey's coat. The fool's bursting with gold and he
wants someone to help him to spend it. I'll be hanged if there's another
woman in London like you for that fun. Now's your chance. He's sweet on
a wench--a raw boarding school miss--he ran off with her an hour or so
ago. The little fool thought she was going to be married by a Fleet
parson, but somehow she took fright and jumped out of the coach on
London Bridge. How the devil she did it beats me, though to be sure when
one of your sex makes up her mind to anything she'll do it and damme, I
believe Beelzebub helps her. Now then----"

"What's this gabble to do with me?" broke in Sally, disdainfully.

"Wait a minute. The wench had a friend in the crowd--a man who got her
away--damn him. I jumped from the coach and we had a set to. See this?"

Scowling ferociously Rofflash pointed to a lump beneath his eye which
promised to become a beautiful mouse on the morrow.

"The jackanapes got me on the hop; my foot slipped and s'life, I was
down. But for that I'd ha' spitted him like a partridge. By the time I
was on my legs the mob were after him. I joined in the hue and cry and
we ran him down to your house. Now then, where's his hiding hole? It'll
mean a matter o' twenty guineas in your pocket to give him up."

"Blood money! I don't earn my living that way. You could have spared
your breath, Rofflash. The man's not here. I'll show you how he escaped.
Come this way."

Sally led the fellow to the window overlooking the Black Ditch and told
him the story.

"Are you bamboozling me, you jade?" growled Rofflash. "It would be like
you."

"I daresay it would if it were worth my while but it isn't. Look for
yourself. Can't you see the deep foot-prints in the mud?"

The waning moon gave sufficient light to show the black slimy surface of
the ditch. An irregularly shaped hole immediately below the window
showed where Vane had alighted. Footprints distinct enough indicated the
direction taken.

"If you're not satisfied search the house."

"I'll take your word. Who's your friend? You wouldn't lift your little
finger to save a stranger."

"Who's the girl?" Sally parried in a flash. "What's she like?"

Rofflash had sharp wits. Cunning was part of his trade.

"Ho ho," he thought. "Sits the wind in that quarter? I'll steer
accordingly."

"The girl? As tempting as Venus and a good deal livelier, I'll swear.
'Faith, she's one worth fighting for. I'll do her gallant justice. If
he's as handy with his blade as he is with his fists he'll be a pretty
swordsman. He'll need all he knows, though," added Rofflash darkly,
"when I meet him."

"Yes, when!" echoed Sally sarcastically. "You'll get no help from me."

"What! Sally Salisbury handing over the man she fancies to another
woman? Is the world coming to an end?"

Rofflash burst into a jeering laugh. It irritated Sally beyond endurance
as he intended it should. But it did not provoke the reply he hoped for.

"Mind your own business," she snapped.

"Why, that's what I'm doing and _my_ business is _yours_. But if you're
fool enough to chuck away a handful of guineas, why do it. All I can say
is that _my_ man would give you anything you like to ask if you'd open
your mouth and tell him where _your_ man is."

"Then I won't. That's my answer, Jeremy Rofflash. Put it in your pipe
and smoke it."

Rofflash made her a profound bow and smiled mockingly.

"Have your own way, mistress. What about this? Something more in your
line, I'll warrant."

He thrust his hand beneath the upper part of his long flapped waistcoat
and drew out a necklace. The pearls of which it was composed were
suffused with a pinkish tinge, the massive gold clasp gleamed in the
lamplight. Sally's eyes flashed momentarily and then became scornful.

"I'm not going to be bribed by _that_ either," she cried.

"Wait till you're asked, my dear. This is my business alone. It has
nought to do with t'other. A week ago these pearls were round the fair
neck of my Lady Wendover. I encountered her in her coach on the Bath
Road near Maidenhead Thicket--my favourite trysting place with foolish
dames who travel with their trinkets and fal-lals. At the sight of my
barkers her ladyship screamed and fainted. This made things as easy as
an old glove. Click! and the necklace was in my pocket and I was
galloping back to Hounslow as if Old Nick himself was behind me."

"Well, and what have your highway robberies to do with me?"

"Just this, pretty one. My Lord Wendover's offered £1,000 reward for the
return of her Ladyship's jewels. I dursn't hand 'em about. I've no fancy
for the hangman's rope. But _you_ can get rid of them and no one be the
wiser."

It was true. Sally had been very useful to Rofflash in disposing of some
of the trophies of his exploits on the Bath Road. The highwayman never
grumbled at whatever commission she chose to take and the arrangement
was to their mutual advantage.

Sally took the pearls and stroked their smooth surfaces lovingly.

"It's a shame to part with 'em."

"Aye, they'd look brave on your neck, sweetheart."

"No. I'm as loth to travel to Tyburn as you. Every fine woman of quality
knows the Wendover pearls. I'd be marked at the first ridotto or
masquerade I showed my face in. I'll do my best to turn 'em into money."

"You're a jewel yourself, Sally. That's all I want. Adieu, mistress, and
good luck go with you."

Rofflash swaggered out and as he made his way to the bridge he pondered
deeply over the mystery of woman. Here was Sally Salisbury, a "flaunting
extravagant quean," always over head and ears in debt, refusing a chance
to put money in her purse just because she had a fancy for a man who
maybe was as poor as a church mouse. Yet, as regarded men generally,
Sally was a daughter of the horseleech!

"Humph," muttered Rofflash, "so much the better. The end on't is I
pocket Dorrimore's gold and no sharing out. If Sally likes to be a fool
'tis her affair and not mine. I've only got to keep my eye on her. What
a woman like her wants she'll get, even if it costs her her life. Sooner
or later, madam, you'll find your way to the fellow's lodgings, and
it'll go hard if I'm not on the spot too."

By the time Rofflash was at the bridge the obstructing waggon had been
got out of the way. Dorrimore's coach was drawn to one side and
Dorrimore himself was striding impatiently up and down, occasionally
refreshing himself with a pinch of snuff and indulging in oaths more or
less elegant.

"Where the devil have you been, Rofflash?" he cried, testily. "And where
the devil's the girl?"

"She'll be safe in your hands shortly, Mr. Archibald, never fear."

"What, have you got her?"

"Not quite, but almost as good. The spark whose arms she jumped into is
her gallant, you may lay your life, and----"

"By thunder, if that's so I'll--I'll run him through, I will, by God!"

"Softly--softly. All in good time. By a bit of luck I came across a
friend who knows him and has engaged to run him to earth. It only means
a few guineas and I made free to promise him a purse. Within a week
you'll be face to face with your rival and you'll have your revenge."

"To the devil with my revenge. It's the girl I want, you blundering
idiot."

"And it's the girl you shall have, by gad. Can't you see, my good sir,
that when you clap your hands on the fellow you clap your hands on the
girl too?"

"S'life! Do you mean to say she's with him?"

"I'd go to a thousand deaths on that."

"I'll not believe it. The girl's a pretty fool or I shouldn't have made
her sweet on me with so little trouble, but she's not that sort."

"If she isn't, all I can say is that St. Giles and Drury Lane are the
places where innocent and unsuspecting maids are to be found. Ask Sally
Salisbury."

"Damn Sally Salisbury," cried the fine gentleman in a fury. "D'ye think
I don't know gold from dross? I'll take my oath no man had touched the
lips of that coy little wench before mine did."

"By all means keep to that belief, sir. It won't do you no harm. Now if
you'll take my advice you'll let me drive you to Moll King's and you'll
finish the night like a man of mettle and a gentleman."

Dorrimore was in a morose and sullen mood. He wanted bracing up and he
adopted Rofflash's suggestion. The coach rattled to Mrs. King's
notorious tavern in Covent Garden, where thieves and scoundrels, the
very dregs of London, mingled with their betters; and amid a bestial
uproar, with the assistance of claret and Burgundy, to say nothing of
port "laced" with brandy on the one hand, and gin and porter on the
other, all differences in stations were forgotten and gentlemen and
footpads were on a level--dead drunk.


CHAPTER VI

MOTHER AND DAUGHTER


A London night in the first quarter of the eighteenth century had very
little rest. Until long past midnight a noisy, lawless, drunken rabble
made the streets hideous. It was quite three o'clock, when as
physiologists tell us the vital forces are at their lowest, before it
could be said that the city was asleep. And that sleep did not last
long. Soon the creaking of market cart and waggon wheels, the shouts of
drovers and waggoners, tramping horses, bellowing cattle and bleating
sheep would dispel the stillness and proclaim the beginning of another
day.

Business in the approaches to the markets was in full swing before four
o'clock. Carters and waggoners were thirsty and hungry souls and the
eating houses and saloop stalls were thronged. The Old Bailey, from its
nearness to Smithfield was crowded, and the buxom proprietress of
Fenton's coffee house was hard put to it to serve her clamorous
customers and to see that she wasn't cheated or robbed.

Mrs. Fenton had improved in appearance as well as in circumstances since
she had come from Bedfordbury to the Old Bailey. She was a good-looking
woman of the fleshly type, with a bosom such as Rowlandson loved to
depict. She was high coloured, her eyes were deep blue, full and without
a trace of softness. Her lips were red and well shaped, her teeth white
and even. She was on the shady side of forty, but looked ten years
younger. Her customers admired her and loved to exchange a little coarse
badinage in which the good woman more than held her own.

There was a Mr. Fenton somewhere in the world, but his wife was quite
indifferent to his existence. He might be in the West Indian plantations
or the hulks for what she cared. She had always gone her own way and
meant to do so to the end of her days.

Apparently she was not in the best of tempers this morning. A drover who
attempted to jest with her was unmercifully snubbed, and so also was a
master butcher from Marylebone, who as a rule was received with favour.
But the lady was not in an ill temper with everybody--certainly not with
the stolid farmer-like man who was plodding his way through a rumpsteak
washed down by small beer.

The coffee shop was divided into boxes and the farmer-like man was
seated in one near the door which opened into the kitchen. Mrs. Fenton
had constantly to pass in and out and his seat was conveniently placed
so as to permit her to bestow a smile upon him as she went by or to
exchange a hurried word.

"The mistress is a bit sweet in that quarter, eh?" whispered a customer
with a jerk of the head and a wink to Hannah the waitress, whom Mrs.
Fenton had brought with her from Bedfordbury.

"I should just think she was," returned the girl contemptuously. "It
makes one sick. She ought to be a done with sweetheartin'."

"A woman's never too old for that, my girl, as you'll find when you're
her age. She might do worse. Dobson's got a tidy little purse put by.
There aren't many in the market as does better than him. He's brought up
twenty head o' cattle from his farm at Romford an' he'll sell 'em all
afore night--money down on the nail, mind ye. That'll buy Mistress
Fenton a few fallals if she's a mind for 'em."

"An' if she's fool enough. Why, he isn't much more than half her years
and she with a grown up daughter too."

"Aye. May be the gal 'ud be more a match for Dobson than her mother."

"Don't you let my mistress hear you say that. Why she's that jealous of
Lavinia she could bite the girl's head off. My! Well I never!"

Hannah started visibly and fixed her eyes on the entrance.

"What's the matter, wench?" growled the man.

"I don't believe in ghosts," returned the girl, paling a little and her
hands trembling in a fashion which rather belied her words, "or I'd say
as I'd just seen Miss Lavinia's sperrit look in at the door. If it isn't
her ghost it's her double."

"Why don't you run outside and settle your mind?"

"'Cause it's impossible it could be her. The girl's at boarding school."

"What's that got to do with it? You go and see."

Hannah hesitated, but at last plucked up her courage and went to the
door. She saw close to the wall some few yards away a somewhat
draggle-tail figure in cloak and hood. Within the hood was Lavinia's
face, though one would hardly recognise it as hers, so white, so drawn,
were the cheeks.

"Saints alive, surely it isn't you, Miss Lavvy?" cried Hannah, clasping
her hands as she ran to the fugitive.

"Indeed it is, worse luck. I'm in sad straits, Hannah. I wouldn't have
come here--I know what mother is--but I couldn't think what to do."

"But good lord--the school--mercy on us child, they haven't turned you
out, have they?"

"No, but they will if I go back. I dursn't do that. I couldn't get in.
I've been robbed of the key. It was inside my reticule that a rogue
snatched from my wrist on London Bridge."

"London Bridge! Gracious! What mischief took 'ee there and at this time
o' the mornin'?"

"I don't know," sighed the girl, half wearily, half pettishly. "I can't
tell you. Don't bother me any more. I'm tired to death. Take me inside
Hannah, or I'll drop. I suppose mother'll be in a fury when she sees me,
but it can't be helped. I don't think I care. It's nothing to do with
her."

Hannah forebore pestering the girl with more questions and led her to
the open door. The waitress had been with Mrs. Fenton in the squalid
days of six months before at the Bedfordbury coffee shop and she well
knew how Lavinia was constantly getting into a scrape, not from
viciousness, but from pure recklessness and love of excitement. Her
mother's treatment of her "to cure her of her ways," as the lady put it,
was simply brutal.

Hannah was not a little afraid of what would happen when Mrs. Fenton set
eyes on her wilful daughter. At the same time, Lavinia was not the same
girl who at Bedfordbury used to run wild, half clad and half starved,
and yet never looked like a beggar, so pretty and so attractive was she.
Six months had developed her into a woman and the training of Miss
Pinwell, the pink of gentility, had given her the modish airs of a lady
of quality. True, her appearance just now had little of this "quality,"
her walk being in fact somewhat limping and one-sided. But there was
good reason for this defect. She had lost one of her high-heeled shoes,
that with which she had battered the coach window.

In spite of her protest of not caring, Lavinia's heart went pit-a-pat
when she entered the hot, frowsy, greasy air of the coffee house.
Customers were clamouring to be served and there was no Hannah to wait
upon them. Mrs. Fenton, her eyes flashing fire, was bustling up and down
between the rows of boxes and denouncing the truant waitress in vigorous
Billingsgate.

Mrs. Fenton had her back turned to the door when Hannah entered with
Lavinia and the two were half way down the gangway before the lady
noticed them. At the sight of her daughter she dropped the dish of eggs
and bacon she was about to deposit in front of a customer and stared
aghast.

Every eye was turned upon Lavinia who, shaking herself free from
Hannah's friendly support, hastened towards her astonished mother,
anxious to avoid a scene under which in her shattered nerves she might
break down.

"Devil fetch me," Mrs. Fenton ejaculated before she had recovered from
the shock. "Why, you hussy----"

Lavinia did not wait to hear more. She brushed past her mother and then
her strength failing her for a moment, she clutched the back of the last
box to steady herself.

This box was that in which Dobson, the young cattle dealer was seated.
Dobson was human. He fell instantly under the spell of those limpid,
imploring eyes, the tremulous lips, and he rose and proffered his seat.

The act of courtesy was unfortunate. It accentuated Mrs. Fenton's rage.
Her heart was torn by jealousy. That Lavinia had shaken her head and
refused the seat made not the slightest difference. The girl had become
surpassingly handsome. Despite her fury Mrs. Fenton had eyes for this.
Her own daughter had attracted the notice of _her_ man! The offence was
unpardonable.

Lavinia knew nothing about this. All she wanted was to escape
observation and she darted into the kitchen, Betty the cook receiving
her with open mouth.

A narrow, ricketty staircase in a corner of the kitchen shut in by a
door which a stranger would take for that of a cupboard led to the upper
part of the house. Lavinia guessed as much. She darted to this door,
flung it open and ran up the creaking stairs just as her mother, shaking
with passion, entered and caught sight of her flying skirt.

"Good laux, mistress," Betty was beginning, but she could get no
further. Mrs. Fenton jumped down her throat.

"Hold your silly tongue. Don't talk to me. I--the smelling salts! Quick,
you slut, or I'll faint," screamed the lady.

No one could look less like fainting than did Mrs. Fenton, and so Betty
thought, but she kept her thoughts to herself and fetched the restorer
at which her mistress vigorously sniffed, after sinking, seemingly
prostrate, into a chair. Then she fell to fanning her hot face with her
apron, now and again relieving her feelings with language quite
appropriate to the neighbourhood of the Old Bailey.

Meanwhile Hannah wisely kept aloof and only went to the kitchen when
necessary to execute her customers' orders. Directly the fainting lady
inside saw the waitress she revived.

"What's this about Lavinia? Tell me. Everything mind," she cried.

"What I don't know I can't tell, mistress. Ask her yourself," returned
Hannah.

"Don't try to bamboozle me. You _do_ know."

"I say I don't. I found her outside more dead than alive, and I brought
her in. I wasn't going to let her be and all the scum of Newgate about."

"Oh, that was it. And pray how did you come to learn she was outside?"

"Because she'd looked in at the door a minute afore and was afeared to
come in 'cause of you, mistress. Give me that dish o' bacon, Betty. The
man who saw his breakfast tumbling on the floor is in a sad pother."

This was a shot for Mrs. Fenton. Hannah rarely sought to have words with
her mistress, but when she did she stood up to her boldly. Mrs. Fenton
was discomfited and Hannah, snatching the dish Betty handed to her,
vanished to appease the hungry customer, leaving the angry woman to chew
over her wrath as best she might.

Mrs. Fenton gradually cooled down. In half an hour's time the market
would be in full swing and most of her customers would be gone. Azoka
was husband-high, and had been conscious for some weeks of a bird
in her breast, which stirred and began to flutter whenever she and
Netawis drew close. At first, when he had been fit for little but
to make kites for the children, she had despised him and wondered
at her father's liking.

But Netawis did not seem to care whether folks despised him or not;
and this piqued her. Whatever had to be learnt he learned humbly, and
now the young men had ceased to speak of him as a good-for-nothing,
Azoka began to think that his differing from them was not wholly
against him; and all the women acknowledged him to be slim and
handsome.

"Many thanks, cousin," said Netawis as she bound up the wounds.
Then he began to talk cheerfully over his shoulder to Menehwehna.
"Five washes I tried, and all were empty; but by the sixth the water
bubbled. Then I wished that I had you with me, for I knew that my hands
would suffer." He smiled; this was one of his un-Indian tricks.

"It was well done, brother," said Menehwehna, and his eyes sought
those of his wife Meshu-kwa who, still crouching by the fire, gazed
across it at the youth and the girl.

"But that is not all. While I was at work the dogs left me.
At first I did not miss them; and then, finding them gone, I made sure
they had run home in scorn of my hunting.

But no; their tracks led me to a tree, not far up the stream, and there
I found them.
They were not barking, but sometimes they would nose around the trunk
and sometimes fall back to a little distance and sit whining and trembling
while they stared up at it."

"And the tracks around the tree?"
"I could find none but what the dogs themselves had made. I tapped the
tree, and it was hollow. Then I saw on the north side, a little above
my head, many deep scratches with moss hanging in strips from them.
The trunk ran up straight, and was so stout that my two arms would not
span more than a tenth of it; but the scratches went up to the
first fork, and there must be the opening, as I guess."

"Said I not that Netawis would become a hunter and bring us luck?" asked
Menehwehna again. "He has found bear."
"Bear! Bear! Our Netawis has found bear!"

cried two small urchins who had been rolling and tumbling with the dogs
and almost burning their toes at the edges of the fire.

They were the children of Azoka's elder sister Seeu-kwa, Muskingon's
widow.

Scrambling past Menehwehna, who never spoke harshly to them, and paying
no heed to their mother's scolding, they ran out into the snow to carry
the news to the other lodges.

"Our Netawis has found bear!"
"What news is this?"

asked some of the young men who lived in a lodge apart--the bachelors'
lodge--gathering round the doorway.
"Seeu-kwa, look to it that your children do not grow up to be
little liars."
Now John, surprised to find his news so important, had turned to Azoka
with a puzzled smile. The firelight which danced on his face danced also
on the long bead necklace heaving like a snake with the rise and
fall of her bosom.

He stared down at it, and Azoka--poor girl--felt his wrist trembling
under her touch; but it was with the thought of another woman. She
caught her hand away; and John, looking up, saw a young Indian,
Ononwe by name, watching him gloomily from the doorway.

"Ask Netawis to tell the story," said Menehwehna. So John told it again,
and added that it had been difficult to call the dogs away from the
tree.

"But about the bear I say nothing; that is Menehwehna's talk.

I only tell you what I saw."
"The wind has fallen," said one, "and soon the moon will be up.
Let us go and prove this tale of Netawis."

Meshu-kwa opposed this, calling it folly. "We have no axes heavy enough
for tree-cutting," she said; not giving her real reason, which was
that she came of a family which claimed descent from a bear.

When they mocked at her she said, "Also--why should I hide it?--there
came to me an evil dream last night."
"This is the first that I have heard of your evil dream," answered
Menehwehna, and gave order that after supper Netawis should lead
the party to the tree, promising that he himself would follow as
soon as the sickness left him.

At moonrise, therefore, they set out--men and women together, and even
the small children. But Menehwehna called Azoka back from the door of the
lodge.

"My daughter," he asked, they two being left alone, "has Ononwe a cause
of quarrel against Netawis?"

"They are good friends," Azoka answered innocently. "Ononwe never speaks
of Netawis but to praise. Surely my father has heard him?"

"That is returning a ball I never flung," her father said, fixing
grave eyes on her, under which she flinched.

"I am thinking that the face of Netawis troubles the clear water
that once was between you and Ononwe.

Yet you tell me that Ononwe praises him. Sit down, therefore, and hear
this tale."

Azoka looked rebellious; but no one in his own household disobeyed
Menehwehna--or out of it, except at peril.

"There was a man of our nation once, a young man, and good-looking as
Ononwe; so handsome that all the village called him the Beau-man.
This Beau-man fell deeply in love with a maiden called Mamondago-kwa,
who also was passably handsome; but she had no right to scorn him as she
did, both in private and openly, so that all the village talked of his
ill-success. This talk so preyed on his mind that he fell ill, and
when his friends broke up their camp after a winter's hunting to return
to the village, he lay on his bed and would not stir, but declared he
would remain and die in the snow rather than look again on the face of
her who scorned him.

So at length they took down the lodge about him and went their ways,
leaving him to die.

"But when the last of them was out of sight this Beau-man arose and,
wandering over the ground where the camp had been, he gathered up all
kinds of waste that his comrades had left behind--scraps of cloth,
beads, feathers, bones and offal of meat, with odds and ends of
chalk, soot, grease, everything that he could pick out of the trodden
snow.

Then, having heaped them together, he called on his guardian
_manitou_, and together they set to work to make a man.
They stitched the rags into coat, _mitoses_ and mocassins, and
garnished them with beads and fringes; of the feathers they made a
head-dress, with a frontlet; and then, taking mud, they plastered
the offal and bones together and stuffed them tightly into the
garments.

The _manitou_ breathed once, and to the eye all their patchwork became
fresh and fine clothing. The _manitou_ breathed twice, and life came
into the figure, which the Beau-man had been kneading into the
shape of a handsome youth.

'Your name,' said he, 'is Moowis, or the Muck-man, and by you I
shall take my revenge.'

"So he commanded the Muck-man to follow, and together they went after the
tracks of the tribe and came to the village. All wondered at the
Beau-man's friend and his fine new clothes; and, indeed, this
Moowis had a frank appearance that won all hearts.

The chief invited him to his lodge, and begged the Beau-man to come
too; he deserved no less for bringing so distinguished a guest. The
Beau-man accepted, but by and by began to repent of his deception
when he saw the Muck-man fed with deer tongue and the moose's hump
while he himself had to be content with inferior portions, and when
he observed further that Mamondago-kwa had no eyes for anyone but
the Muck-man, who began to prove himself a clever rogue.

The chief would have promoted Moowis to the first place by the fire;
but this (for it would have melted him) he modestly refused. He kept
shifting his place while he talked, and the girl thought him no
less vivacious than modest, and no more modest than brave, since
he seemed even to prefer the cold to the cheerful warmth of the
hearth.

The Beau-man attempted to talk; but the Muck-man had always a retort at
which the whole company laughed, until the poor fellow ran out of
the lodge in a fury of shame and rage.

As he rose he saw the Muck-man rise, with the assent of all, and cross
over to the bridegroom's seat beside Mamondago-kwa, who welcomed
him as a modest maiden should when her heart has been fairly won.

"So it happened--attend to me well, my daughter--that Mamondago-kwa
married a thing of rags and bones, put together with mud. But when the
dawn broke her husband rose up and took a bow and spear, saying,
'I must go on a journey.'

'Then I will go with you,' said his bride.
'My journey is too long for you,' said the Muck-man. 'Not so,' answered
she; 'there is no journey that I could not take beside you, no
toil that I could not share for love of you.'

He strode forth, and she followed him at a distance; and the Beau-man,
who had kept watch all night outside their lodge, followed also
at a distance, unseen.

All the way along the rough road Mamondago-kwa called to her husband;
but he went forward rapidly, not turning his head, and she could
not overtake him.

Soon, as the sun rose, he began to melt.
Mamondago-kwa did not see the gloss go out of his clothes, nor his
handsome features change back again into mud and snow and filth.
But still as she followed she came on rags and feathers and scraps of
clothing, fluttering on bushes or caught in the crevices of the rocks.
She passed his mittens, his mocassins, his _mitases_, his coat,
his plume of feathers.

At length, as he melted, his footprints grew fainter, until she
lost even his track on the snow.
'Moowis! Moowis!' she cried; but now there was none to answer her, for
the Muck-man had returned to that out of which he was made."
Menehwehna ceased and looked at his daughter steadily.

"And did the Beau-man find her and fetch her back?" asked
Azoka.

"The story does not say, to my knowledge; but it may be that Ononwe
could tell you."
Azoka stepped to the moonlit doorway and gazed out over the snow.

"And yet you love Netawis?"

she asked, turning her head.

"So much that I keep him in trust for his good, against a day when
he will go and never return.

But that is not a maiden's way of loving, unless maidens have changed
since I went a-courting them."
Netawis having led them to the tree, the young men fell to work
upon it at once.

It measured well over ten fathoms in girth; and by daybreak, their axes
being light, they had hewed it less than half-way through. After a short
rest they attacked it again, but the sun was close upon setting when the
tree fell--with a rending scream which swelled into a roar so
human-like that the children ran with one accord and caught hold
of their elders' hands.

John, with Seeu-kwa's small boys clinging to him, stood about thirty
paces from the fallen trunk.

Two or three minutes passed, and he wondered why the men did not
begin to jeer at him for having found them a mare's nest.

For all was quiet. He wondered also why none of them approached the tree
to examine it.

"I shall be the mock of the camp from this moment," he thought, and
said aloud, "Let go of my hands, little ones; there is no more danger."

But they clung to him more tightly than ever; for a great cry went up.
From the opening by the fork of the trunk a dark body rolled lazily
out upon the snow--an enormous she-bear. She uncurled and gathered
herself up on all fours, blinking and shaking her head as though
the fall had left her ears buzzing, and so began to waddle off.

Either she had not seen the crowd of men and women, or perhaps she
despised it.

"Ononwe! Ononwe!"

shouted the Indians; for Ononwe, gun in hand, had been posted close
to the opening.

He half-raised his gun, but lowered it again.

"Netawis found her," he said quietly.

"Let Netawis shoot her."

He stepped back towards John who, almost before he knew, found the gun
thrust into his hands; for the children had let go their clasp.

Amid silence he lifted it and took aim, wondering all the while why
Ononwe had done this.

The light was fading.

To be sure he could not miss the bear's haunches, now turned obliquely
to him; but to hit her without killing would be scarcely less
dishonouring than to miss outright, and might be far more dangerous.

His hand and forearm trembled too--with the exertion of hewing, or
perhaps from the strain of holding the children.

Why had he been fool enough to take the gun? He foretasted his disgrace
even as he pulled the trigger.

It seemed to him that as the smoke cleared the bear still walked forward
slowly. But a moment later she turned her head with one loud snap of the
jaws and lurched over on her side. Her great fore-pads smote twice
on the powdery snow, then were still.

He had killed her, then; and, as he learned from the applause, by an
expert's shot, through the spine at the base of the skull. John had
aimed at this merely at a guess, knowing nothing of bears or their
vulnerable points, and in this ignorance neglecting a far easier
mark behind the pin of the shoulder.

But more remained to wonder at; for the beast being certified for dead,
Meshu-kwa ran forward and kneeling in the snow beside it began to
fondle and smooth the head, calling it by many endearing names.

She seated herself presently, drew the great jaws on to her lap and
spoke into its ear, beseeching its forgiveness. "O bear!" she cried for
all to hear, "O respected grandmother! You yourself saw that this was
a stranger's doing. Believe not that Meshu-kwa is guilty of your death,
or any of her tribe!

It was a stranger that disturbed your sleep, a stranger who fired upon
you with this unhappy result!"

The men stood around patiently until this propitiation was ended; and
then fell to work to skin the bear, while Meshu-kwa went off with her
daughters to the lodges, to prepare the cooking pots. In passing John she
gave him a glance of no good will.

That night, as Azoka stood by a cauldron in which the bear's fat
bubbled, and the young men idled around the blaze, she saw Netawis
draw Ononwe aside into the darkness.

Being a quick-witted girl she promptly let slip her ladle into the fat,
as if by mischance, and ran to her father's lodge for another, followed
by Meshu-kwa's scolding voice.

The lodge had a back-exit towards the wall of the sandhill, where the
wind's eddy had swept a lane almost clear of snow; and Azoka pushed her
pretty head through the flap-way here in time to spy the dark
shadows of the pair before they disappeared behind the bachelor's
lodge. Quietly as a pantheress she stole after them, smoothing out her
footprints behind her until she reached the trampled snow; and so,
coming to the angle of the bachelors' lodge, cowered listening.

                                        "But suppose that I
                                             had missed my shot?"
     said the voice of Netawis.

     "I tell you that my heart was as wax; and when the lock fell, I saw
     nothing.

             Why, what is the matter with you, Ononwe?"

      "I thought you had led me here to quarrel with me," Ononwe answered
slowly, and Azoka held her breath.

"Quarrel, brother? Why should I quarrel with you? It was a risk, as I
am telling you; but you trusted me, and I brought you here to thank
you that in your good heart you gave the shot up to me."

"But it was not my good heart." Ononwe's voice had grown hoarse.
"It was an evil thought in my head, and you will have to quarrel
with me, Netawis."

"That Ononwe is a good man," said Azoka to herself.

"I do not understand. Did you expect me, then, to miss? Do not say,
brother, that you gave me the gun _wishing_ me to miss and be the
mock of the camp!"

"Yes, and no. I thought, if you took the gun, it would not matter
whether you hit or missed."

"Why?"
"Are you so simple, Netawis? Or is it in revenge that you force me to
tell? . . . Yes, I have played you an evil trick, and by an evil tempting.
I saw you with Azoka. . . . I gave you the gun, thinking, 'If he
misses, the whole camp will mock him, and a maid turns from a man whom
others mock. But if he should kill the bear, he will have to reckon
with Meshu-kwa.
She crept along the gutter in front of the next house. Dirty curtains
hung at windows. There was no danger of her being seen even if the room
had any occupants. She crawled onward, feeling she was a sort of Jack
Sheppard whose daring escapes were still being talked about.

At the next window Lavinia hesitated and stopped. This window had no
curtains. The grime of many months, maybe of years, obscured the glass.
One of the small panes was broken. Gathering courage she craned her head
and looked through the opening. The room was empty. The paper on the
walls hung in strips. There was a little hole in the ceiling through
which the daylight streamed.

If the house should, like the room, be empty! The possibility opened up
all kinds of speculation in Lavinia's active brain. Why not explore the
premises? Up till now she had forgotten her lost shoe. To pursue her
investigations unsuitably dressed as she was would be absurd. Supposing
she had a chance of escaping into the street she must be properly
garbed.

She did not give herself time to think but hastened back to Hannah's
room. She tried on all the shoes she could find. One pair was smaller
than the rest. She put on that for the left foot. It was a little too
large but near enough. Then she hurried on her hooded cloak and once
more tackled the gutter. She was able to reach the window catch by
putting her hand through the aperture in the broken pane. In a minute or
so she was in the room, flushed, panting, hopeful.

A long, long time must have passed since that room had been swept. Flue
and dust had accumulated till they formed a soft covering of nearly a
quarter of an inch thick. A fusty, musty smell was in the room, in the
air of the staircase, everywhere.

She feared that only the upper part of the house was uninhabited but it
was not so. The place was terribly neglected and dilapidated. Holes were
in the walls, some of the twisted oak stair-rails had been torn away,
patches of the ceiling had fallen. But Lavinia hardly noticed anything
as she flew down the stairs. The lock could not be opened from the
outside without the key, but inside the handle had but to be pushed back
and she was in the street. She pulled her hood well over her head and
hastened towards Ludgate Hill. It was not the nearest route to Grub
Street which she knew was somewhere near Moorfields, but she dared not
pass her mother's house.

Lavinia knew more about London west of St. Paul's than she did east of
it, and she had to ask her way. Grub Street she found was outside the
city wall, many fragments of which were then standing, and she had to
pass through the Cripples Gate before she reached the squalid quarter
bordering Moor Fields westward, where distressed poets, scurrilous
pamphleteers, booksellers' hacks and literary ne'er-do-wells dragged out
an uncertain existence.

Lavinia found Fletcher's Court to be a narrow passage with old houses
dating from Elizabethan times, whose projecting storeys were so close
together that at the top floor one could jump across to the opposite
side without much difficulty. With beating heart she entered the house,
the door of which was open. She met an old woman descending a rickety
tortuous staircase and stopped her.

"Can you tell me if Mr. Vane lives here?" said she.

"Well, he do an' he don't," squeaked the old dame. "Leastways he won't
be here much longer. He's a bein' turned out 'cause he can't pay his
rent, pore young gentleman. We're all sorry for him, so civil spoken and
nice to everybody, not a bit like some o' them scribblers as do nothing
but drink gin day an' night. Street's full of 'em. I can't make out what
they does for a livin'! Scholards they be most of 'em I'm told. Mr.
Vane's lodgin's on the top floor. You goes right up. That's old Sol
Moggs' squeak as you can hear. Don't 'ee be afeared of 'im, dearie."

The old woman, who was laden with a big basket and a bundle, went out
and Lavinia with much misgiving ascended the stairs. She remembered the
name, Solomon Moggs. He was the landlord. If his nature was as harsh and
discordant as his voice poor Lancelot Vane was having an unpleasant
time.

"Ill, are ye?" she heard Moggs shrieking. "I can't help that. I didn't
make you ill, did I? Maybe you was in a drunken brawl last night. It
looks like it with that bandage round your head. You scribbling gentry,
the whole bunch of ye, aren't much good. I don't see the use of you. Why
don't ye do some honest work and pay what you owes? I can't afford to
keep you for nothing. Stump up or out ye go neck and crop."

Lavinia ran up the next flight. The landing at the top was low pitched
and dark. The only light was that which came from the open door of a
front room. In the doorway was a little man in a shabby coat which
reached down to his heels. His wig was frowsy, his three-cornered hat
was out of shape and he held a big stick with which he every now and
then thumped the floor to emphasise his words.

Beyond this unpleasant figure she could see a small untidy room with a
sloping roof. The floor, the chairs--not common ones but of the early
Queen Anne fashion with leathern seats--an old escritoire, were strewn
with papers. The occupant and owner was invisible. But she could hear
his voice. He was remonstrating with the little man in the doorway.

Lavinia touched the man on the shoulder. He turned, stared and seeing
only a pretty girl favoured her with a leer.

"How much does Mr. Vane owe you?" said Lavinia, chinking the coins.

"Eh, my dear? Are you going to pay his debt? Lucky young man. Nine weeks
at three shillings a week comes to twenty-seven shillings. There ought
to be a bit for the lawyer who wrote the notice to quit. But I'll let
you off that because of your pretty face."

Lavinia counted the money into the grimy outstretched paw. Moggs' face
wrinkled into a smirk.

"Much obleeged, my young madam. I'll wager as the spark you've saved
from being turned into the street'll thank you more to your liking than
an old fellow like me could."

Solomon Moggs made a low bow and was turning away when Lancelot Vane
suddenly appeared. His face was very pallid and he clutched the door to
steady himself. What with his evident weakness and his bandaged head he
presented rather a pitiable picture.

"What's all this?" he demanded. "I'm not going to take your money,
madam."

"It's not mine," cried Lavinia in a rather disappointed tone. She could
see he did not remember her.

"Faith an' that's gospel truth," chuckled Moggs. "It's mine and it's not
going into anybody else's pocket." And he hastily shuffled down the
staircase.

Lavinia turned to Vane a little ruffled.

"You don't recollect me," she said. "The money's ours. I didn't want it
but you did and so I brought it back. I'm so glad I was in time and
that you're rid of that horrid man."

Lancelot Vane stared fixedly at her. The events of the night before were
mixed up in his mind and he had but a dim remembrance of the girl's
face. Indeed he had caught only a momentary glimpse of it.

"Was it you, madam, who were pursued by those ruffians?" he stammered.
"I'm grateful that you've come to no harm."

"Oh, it was all your doing," cried Lavinia, eagerly, "you were so brave
and kind. I was too frightened last night to think of anything but
getting away and I didn't thank you. I want to do so now."

"No, no. It's you who should be thanked. Don't stand there, pray. Do
come inside. It's a frightfully dirty room but it's the best I have."

"But I--I must get back."

"You're in no hurry, I hope. I've so much I would like to say to you."

"What can you have? We're such strangers," she protested.

"Just now we are perhaps, but every minute we talk together makes us
less so. Please enter."

His voice was so entreating, his manner so deferential, she could not
resist. She ventured within a few steps and while he cleared a chair
from its books and papers her eyes wandered round. One end of the room
was curtained off and the opening between the curtains revealed a bed.
The furniture was not what one would expect to find in a garret. It was
good and solid but undusted and the upholstery was faded. The general
appearance was higgledy-piggledy--hand to mouth domesticity mixed up
with the work by which the young man earned, or tried to earn, his
living. No signs of a woman's neatness and touches of decoration could
be seen.

Lavinia's glances went to the owner of the garret. After all it was only
he who was of real interest. She noticed the difficulty he had in
lifting a big folio from the chair. He could hardly use his right arm.
She saw his hollow cheeks and the dark circles beneath his eyes. She
hadn't spent years in the streets amongst the poorest not to know that
his wistful look meant want of food--starvation may be.

"Won't you sit down?" he said.

She shook her head.

"This belongs to you," she said, holding out his purse. "I'm so sorry
it's empty."

"I'm sorry too. You haven't spent a farthing on yourself and I meant it
all for you."

"It was very foolish when you wanted money so badly."

"That doesn't matter. You wouldn't have been here now if I hadn't given
it you."

Her eyes lighted up. The same thought had crossed her mind.

"How did you know I lived here?" he went on.

"Well I--I opened the other end of the purse and read what was on the
papers inside. It was very wrong. You'll forgive me, won't you?"

"I'd forgive you anything. You descended upon me like an angel. Not many
young ladies of your station would have had the courage to set foot in
Grub Street."

A smile trembled on Lavinia's tempting lips.

"My station? What then do you think is my station?"

"How can I tell? I take you to be a lady, madam. I don't want to know
any more."

At this Lavinia laughed outright. Her clothes were of good quality and
of fashionable cut--the Duchess of Queensberry's maid had seen to
that--her manner and air were those of a lady of quality--thanks to Miss
Pinwell--but apart from these externals what was she? A coffee shop
waitress--a strolling singer--a waif and stray whose mother would not
break her heart if she got her living on the streets!

When she thought of the bitter truth the laughing face was clouded.

"I wish I were a lady--a rich one, I mean--for your sake," said she
softly. "You look so ill. You ought to have a doctor."

"I ought to have a good many things, I daresay, that I haven't got. I
have to do without."

Her eyes drooped. They remained fixed on a little gold brooch fastening
her cloak. The brooch was the gift of Dorrimore. The wonder was her
mother had not discovered it.

"I must go. I--I've forgotten something."

"But you'll come again, wont you?" said he imploringly. "Though to be
sure there's nothing in this hovel to tempt you? Besides, the difference
between us----"

"Please don't talk nonsense," she broke in. "Yes, I'll come again soon.
I don't know how long I shall be--a couple of hours perhaps."

"Do you really mean that?" he cried, joyfully.

"Yes, if nothing happens to prevent me. Good-bye for a while."

She waved her hand. He caught the tips of her fingers and kissed them.
One bright smile in response and she was gone.

With her heart fluttering strangely--a fluttering that Dorrimore had
never been able to inspire--Lavinia flew down the staircase and sped
through the streets in the direction of London Bridge.


CHAPTER VIII

"YOU'VE A MIGHTY COAXING TONGUE"


The shop on London Bridge of Dr. Mountchance, apothecary, astrologer,
dealer in curios and sometimes money lender and usurer, was in its way
picturesque and quaint, but to most tastes would scarcely be called
inviting. Bottles of all shapes and sizes loaded the shelves, mingled
with jars and vases from China, Delft ware from Holland and plates and
dishes from France, which Dr. Mountchance swore were the handiwork of
Palissy, the famous artist-potter. Everything had a thick coating of
dust. Dried skins of birds, animals and hideous reptiles hung from the
walls and ceiling; a couple of skulls grinned mockingly above a doorway
leading into a little room at the rear, and it was difficult to steer
one's way between the old furniture, the iron bound coffers and
miscellaneous articles which crowded the shop.

In the room behind, chemical apparatus of strange construction was on
one table; packets of herbs were on another; a huge tome lay opened on
the floor, and books were piled on the chairs. The apartment was a
mixture of a laboratory and lumber room. A furnace was in one corner,
retorts, test tubes, crucibles, a huge pestle and mortar, jars, bottles
were on a bench close handy.

The room was lighted by a window projecting over the Thames, and the
roar of the river rushing through the narrow arches and swirling and
dashing against the stone work never ceased, though it varied in
violence according to wind and tide. The house was a portion of the old
chapel of St. Thomas, long since converted from ecclesiastical
observances to commercial uses.

Dr. Mountchance, who at this moment was at a table in the centre
examining a silver flagon and muttering comments upon it, was a little
man about seventy, with an enormous head and a spare body and short
legs. His face was wrinkled like a piece of wet shrivelled silk and his
skin was the colour of parchment. His eyes, very small and deep-set,
were surmounted by heavy brows once black, now of an iron grey. His
mouth was of prodigious width, the lips thin and straight and his nose
long, narrow and pointed. He wore a dirty wig which was always awry, a
faded mulberry coloured coat, and a frayed velvet waistcoat reaching
halfway down his thighs. His stockings were dirty and hung in bags about
his ankles, his feet were cased in yellow slippers more than half worn
out.

Dr. Mountchance's hearing was keen. A footfall in the shop, soft as it
was, caused him to look up. He saw a slight girlish figure, her cloak
pulled tightly about her, a pair of bright eyes peering from beneath the
hood.

The old man gave a grunt of dissatisfaction. Many of his customers were
women but he liked them none the more because of their sex. They
generally came to sell, not to buy, and most of them knew how to drive a
hard bargain. He shuffled into the shop with a scowl on his lined yellow
face.

"What d'ye want?" he growled.

Most girls would have been nervous at such a reception. Not so this one.

"I want to sell this brooch. How much will you give me for it?" said
she, undauntedly.

"Don't want to buy it. Go somewhere else."

"I shan't. Too much trouble. Besides, you're going to buy it, dear Dr.
Mountchance."

The imploring eyes, the beseeching voice, soft and musical, the modest
yet assured manner, were too much for the old man. Unconscious of the
destiny awaiting her, Lavinia was employing the same tenderness of look,
the same captivating pathos of tone as when two years later she, as
Polly Peachum, sang "Oh ponder well," and won the heart of the Duke of
Bolton.

"H'm, h'm," grunted Mountchance, "you pretty witch. Must I humour ye?"

"Of course you must. You're so kind and always ready to help others."

The doctor showed his yellow fangs in a ghastly grin that gave a
skull-like look to his dried face.

"Hold thy wheedling tongue, hussy. This trinket--gold you say?"

"Try it, you know better than I."

Dr. Mountchance took the brooch into the inner room, weighed it, tested
the metal and returned to the shop.

"I can give you no more than the simple value of the gold. 'Tis not
pure--a crown should content ye."

"Well, it doesn't. Do you take me for a cutpurse? I'm not that sort."

"How do I know? You use thieves' jargon. Where did you pick it up?"

Lavinia gave one of her rippling laughs.

"That's my business and not yours. I tell you it's honestly come by and
I want a guinea for it. You know it's worth five and maybe more. The man
who gave it me--I don't care for him you may like to know--isn't mean.
He'd spend a fortune on me if I'd care to take it but I don't." She
tossed her head disdainfully.

"Oh, 'tis from your gallant. Aye, men are easily fooled by bright eyes.
Well--well----"

Lavinia's ingenuous story had its effect. Not a few of Dr. Mountchance's
lady customers preferred money to trinkets and he did a profitable trade
in buying these presents at his own price. Some of these flighty damsels
were haughty and patronising and others were familiar and impudent. The
old man disliked both varieties. Lavinia belonged to neither the first
nor the second. She was thoroughly natural and the humour lurking in her
sparkling eyes was a weapon which few could resist. Dr. Mountchance
unclasped a leather pouch and extracted a guinea.

"You've a mighty coaxing tongue, you baggage. Keep it to yourself that I
gave you what you asked, lest my reputation as a fair dealing man be
gone for ever."

"Oh, you may trust me to keep my mouth shut," said Lavinia with mock
gravity.

A sweeping curtsey and she turned towards the door. At the same moment a
lady cloaked and hooded like herself entered. They stared at each other
as they passed.

Lavinia recognised Sally Salisbury, though the latter was much more
finely dressed than when they encountered each other outside the
Maidenhead Tavern in St. Giles. Sally was not so sure about Lavinia. The
slim girl was now a woman. She carried herself with an air. She had
exchanged her shabby garments for clothes of a fashionable cut which she
knew how to wear. Still, some chord in Sally's memory was stirred and
she advanced into the shop with a puzzled look on her face.

Mountchance received his fresh customer obsequiously. He had made a good
deal of money out of Sally; she never brought him anything which was not
valuable and worth buying. Sometimes her treasures were presents from
admirers, sometimes they were the proceeds of highway robberies. The
latter yielded the most profit. The would-be sellers dared not haggle.
They were only too anxious to get rid of their ill-gotten gains.

The old man bowed Sally Salisbury into his inner room. He knew that the
business which had brought her to him was one that meant privacy. He
ceremoniously placed a chair for her and awaited her pleasure.

The lady was in no hurry. She caught sight of the gold brooch lying on
the table, took it up and examined it. On the back was graven "A.D. to
Lavinia." Sally's dark arched eyebrows contracted.

"Lavinia," she thought. "So it _was_ that little squalling cat. I hate
her. She's tumbled on her feet--like all cats. But for the letters I'd
say she'd flung herself at the head of _my_ man."

Sally was thinking of her encounter with Lavinia outside the Maiden Head
tavern. Lancelot Vane was then sitting in the bow window of the
coffee-room. True he was in a drunken sleep but this would make no
difference. Lavinia, Sally decided, was in a fair way to earn her
living, much as Sally herself did--the toy of the bloods of fashion one
day, the companions of highwaymen and bullies the next.

"Where did the impertinent young madam get her fine clothes and her
quality air if not?" Sally asked herself, and the question was a
reasonable one.

"Have you brought me ought that I care to look at, Mistress Salisbury?"
broke in the old man impatiently. "You haven't come to buy that paltry
trinket, I'll swear."

"How do you knew? It takes my fancy. Where did you get it?"

"I've had it but five minutes. You passed the girl who sold it me as you
came in. A pretty coaxing wench. She'd make a man pour out his gold at
her feet if she cared to try."

Sally's lips went pallid with passion and her white nostrils quivered.

"A common little trull," she burst out. "She should be sent to Bridewell
and soundly whipped. 'Tis little more than six months she was a street
squaller cadging for pence round the boozing kens of St. Giles and Clare
Market. And now--pah! it makes me sick."

Sally flung the brooch upon the table with such violence it bounced a
foot in the air.

"Gently--gently, my good Sally," remonstrated Mountchance, "if you must
vent your fury upon anything choose your own property, not mine."

It was doubtful if the virago heard the request. She was not given to
curbing her temper, and leaning back in the chair, her body rigid, she
beat a tattoo with her high-heeled shoes and clenched her fists till
the knuckles whitened.

Mountchance had seen hysterical women oft times and was not troubled. He
opened a stoppered bottle and held its rim to the lady's nose. The
moment was well chosen, Sally was in the act of drawing a deep breath,
probably with the intention of relieving her feelings by shrieking
aloud. The ammonia was strong and she inhaled a full dose. She gasped,
she coughed, her eyes streamed, the current of her thoughts changed, she
poured a torrent of unadulterated Billingsgate upon the imperturbable
doctor who busied himself about other matters until Sally should think
fit to regain her senses.

That time came when after a brief interval of sullenness, accompanied by
much heaving of the bosom and biting of lips she deigned to produce the
pearl necklace, the spoil of Rofflash's highway robbery on the Bath
Road.

Mountchance looked at the pearls closely and his face became very
serious.

"The High Toby game I'll take my oath," said he in a low voice. "Such a
bit of plunder as this must be sent abroad. I dursn't attempt to get rid
of it here."

"That's _your_ business. My business is how much'll you give."

Dr. Mountchance named a sum ridiculously low so Sally thought. Then
ensued a long haggle which was settled at last by a compromise and Sally
departed.

As she hurried back to her lodgings in the Borough, Sally was quite
unaware that Rofflash, disguised as a beggar with a black patch over his
eye and a dirty red handkerchief tied over his head in place of his wig,
was stealthily shadowing her.


CHAPTER IX

"YOU WERE BRAVE AND FOUGHT FOR ME"


Meanwhile Lavinia was hastening to Grub Street. On her way she bought a
pair of shoes which if not quite in the _mode_ were at least fellows.
She also cleverly talked the shopkeeper into allowing her something on
the discarded odd ones and thereby saved a shilling.

The girl's old life in roaming about the streets had sharpened her wits.
Adversity had taught her much. It had given her a knowledge of persons
and things denied to those to whom life had always been made easy. She
had had sundry acquaintances among the pretty orange girls who plied
their trade at Drury Lane and the Duke's theatres and had got to know
how useful Dr. Mountchance was in buying presents bestowed upon them by
young bloods flushed with wine, and in other ways. Hence when in want of
money she looked upon her brooch she at once thought of the old man's
shop on London Bridge.

The taverns in those days were real houses of refreshment. Food could be
had at most of them as well as drink. Still a girl needed some courage
to enter. The men she might meet were ready to make free in far too
familiar a fashion. Lavinia stopped in front of the "Green Dragon" near
the Cripples Gate, but hesitated. Many months had passed since the time
when she would have boldly walked into the galleried inn-yard and asked
for what she wanted. The refining influence of Miss Pinwell's genteel
establishment had made her loathe the low life in which her early years
had been passed.

"They can't eat me," she thought. "Besides, the poor fellow is
starving."

The place was fairly quiet. One or two men of a group drinking and
gossipping winked at each other when they caught sight of her pretty
face, but they said nothing and she got what she asked for, a cold
chicken, bread and a bottle of wine.

Lavinia hastened to Grub Street. She ran up the dirty narrow ricketty
stairs, her heart palpitating with excitement, and she knocked at the
garret door. It was opened immediately, Lancelot Vane stood in the
doorway, his fine eyes beaming. He looked very handsome, Lavinia
thought, and she blushed under his ardent gaze.

He had washed, he had shaved, he had put on his best suit and his wig
concealed the cut on his forehead. He was altogether a different
Lancelot from the bedraggled, woe-begone, haggard young man whom she had
found in the last stage of misery two hours ago. He had moreover,
enlisted the help of the old woman whom Lavinia had met on the stairs at
her first visit and the place was swept and tidied. The room as well as
its occupant was now quite presentable.

"I've brought you something to eat," stammered Lavinia quite shyly to
her own surprise. "You don't mind, do you?"

"Not if you'll do me the honour to share it with me."

"Oh, but it will give you so much trouble. And I'm not hungry. I bought
it all for you."

Lavinia was busy emptying the contents of a rush basket which the
good-natured landlord of the "Green Dragon" had given her.

"Have you a plate and a knife and fork? You can't eat with your fingers,
you know."

"I've two plates and two knives and forks, but the knives are not pairs.
I apologise humbly for my poverty stricken household."

"That doesn't matter. I'm not going to touch a morsel."

"Neither am I then. And it isn't my hospitality, remember, but yours.
Why are you such a good Samaritan?"

"You were brave and fought for me. I shall never forget last
night--never."

"It will always be in my memory too, and I want our first meal together
to be in my memory also. Alas! I have no tablecloth."

"But you have plenty of paper," Lavinia laughingly said. "That will do
as well."

Lancelot laughed in unison and seizing a couple of sheets of foolscap he
opened and spread them on the table.

"One for you and one for me, but you see I've put them together," said
he with a roguish gleam in his eye.

"No, they must be separate."

But he had his way.

Soon the banquet was ready and it delighted Lavinia to see how
ravenously the young man ate. At the same time it pained her for it told
of days of privation. Before long they were perfectly at ease and
merrily chatting about nothing in particular, under some circumstances
the best kind of talk. Suddenly he said:

"I'm wondering where my next meal is to come from. I can't expect an
angel to visit me every day."

"Perhaps it will be a raven. Didn't ravens feed Elijah?" said Lavinia
mockingly.

"I believe so, but I'm not Elijah. I'm not even a prophet. I'm only a
poor scribbler."

"You write plays, don't you?"

"I've written one but I'm afraid it's poor stuff. I meant to show it to
Mr. Gay the great poet. I was told he was often to be found at the
Maiden Head in St. Giles, but unluckily I was persuaded by some friends
to see Jack Sheppard's last exploit at Tyburn. I drank too much--I own
it to my shame--and when I reached the inn where I hoped to see Mr. Gay
I fell dead asleep and never saw him. He had gone when I awoke."

Lavinia clasped her hands. A shadow passed over her bright face leaving
it sad and pensive. The red mobile lips were tremulous and the eyes
moist and shining. She now knew why Lancelot Vane's features had seemed
so familiar to her. But not for worlds would she let him know she had
seen him in his degradation.

Besides she too had memories of that day she would like to forget--save
the remembrance of her meeting with Gay and his kindness to her, a
kindness which she felt she had repaid with folly and ingratitude.

"Then you know Mr. Gay?" said she presently.

"I was introduced to him by Spiller the actor one night at the Lamb and
Flag, Clare Market--I'll warrant you don't know Clare Market; 'tis a
dirty greasy ill-smelling place where everyone seems to be a
butcher----"

Lavinia said nothing. She knew Clare Market perfectly well.

"Mr. Gay was good enough to look at some poems I had with me. He praised
them and I told him I'd written a play and he said he would like to see
it. And then--but you know what happened. I feel I daren't face him
again after disgracing myself so. What must he think of me?"

"He'll forgive you," cried Lavinia enthusiastically. "He's the dearest,
the kindest, the most generous hearted man in the world. He is my best
friend and----"

She stopped. She was on the point of plunging into her history and there
was no necessity for doing this. She had not said a word to Lancelot
Vane about herself and she did not intend to do so. He must think what
he pleased about the adventure which had brought them together. He must
have seen her leap from Dorrimore's carriage--nay, he may have caught
sight of Dorrimore himself. Then there was the ruffian of a coachman who
had pursued her. The reason of the fellow's anxiety to capture her must
have puzzled Vane. Well, it must continue to puzzle him.

"Mr. Gay your friend?" returned Vane with a pang of envy. "Ah, then,
you're indeed fortunate. I--you've been such a benefactor to me, madam,
that I hesitate to ask another favour of you."

All familiarity had fled from him. He seemed to be no longer on an
equality with her. He was diffident, he was respectful. If this girl was
a friend of Mr. Gay the distinguished poet and dramatist whose latest
work, "The Fables," was being talked about at Button's, at Wills', at
every coffee-house where the wits gathered, she must be somebody in the
world of fashion and letters. Perhaps she was an actress. She had the
assured manner of one, he thought.

"What is it you want? If it's anything in my power I'd like to help
you," said Lavinia with an air of gracious condescension. The young
man's sudden deference amused her highly. It also pleased her.

"Thank you," he exclaimed eagerly. "I would ask you if you have
sufficient acquaintance to show him my play? I'm sure he would refuse
you nothing. Nobody could."

"Oh, this is very sad," said Lavinia shaking her head. "I'm afraid, Mr.
Vane, you're trying to bribe me with flattery. I warn you it will be of
no avail. All the same I'll take your play to Mr. Gay if you care to
trust it to me."

"Trust, madam, I'd trust you with anything."

"You shouldn't be so ready to believe in people you know nothing of.
But--where's this play of yours? May I look at it?"

"It would be the greatest honour you could confer upon me. I would
dearly love to have your opinion," he cried, his face flushing.

"My opinion isn't worth a button, but all the same the play would
interest me I'm sure."

He went to a bureau and took from one of the drawers a manuscript neatly
stitched together.

"I've copied it out fairly and I don't think you'll have much difficulty
in deciphering the writing."

Lavinia took the manuscript and glanced at the inscription on the first
page. It ran "Love's Blindness: A Tragedy in Five Acts. By Lancelot
Vane."

"Oh, it's a tragedy," she exclaimed.

He read the look of dismay that crept over her face and his heart fell.

"Yes. But the real tragic part doesn't come until the very last part of
the fifth act."

"And what happens then?"

"The lovers both die. They do not find out how much they love each other
until it is too late for them to be united, so Stephen kills Amanda and
then kills himself."

"How terribly sad. But wasn't there any other way? Why couldn't you have
made them happy?"

"Then it wouldn't have been a tragedy."

"Perhaps not. But what prevented them marrying?"

"Amanda, not knowing Stephen loved her, had married another man whom she
didn't care for."

"I see. There was a husband in the way. Still it would have been wiser
for her to have left him and run away with Stephen. It certainly would
have been more in the mode."

"Not on the stage. People like to see a play that makes them cry. How
they weep over the sorrows of Almeria in Mr. Congreve's 'Mourning
Bride!'"

"Yes, so I've heard. I've never seen the play. The title frightens me. I
don't like the notion of a mourning bride."

"Not in real life I grant you. But on the stage it's different. I'm
sorry you don't care for my tragedy," he went on disappointedly.

"I never said that. How could I when I haven't read a line? That's very
unjust of you."

"I humbly crave forgiveness. Nothing was further from my thoughts than
to accuse you of being unjust. I ought to have said that you didn't care
for tragedies, and if so mine would be included. Pray pardon me."

"How serious! You haven't offended me a bit. After all it isn't what I
think of your play that's of any consequence. It's what Mr. Gay thinks
and I'll do my best to take it to him."

"You will? Madam, you've made me the happiest of mortals. Let me wrap up
my poor attempt at play writing."

"Why do you call it poor? And am I not to read it?"

"No, no. Not a line. You would think it tedious. I'll wait for Mr. Gay's
opinion, and if that's favourable I would like with your permission to
introduce a part for you."

"What, in a tragedy? I can't see myself trying to make people weep."

"But it wouldn't be a tragic part. While we've been talking it has
occurred to me that the play would be improved by a little comedy."

"Yes," rejoined Lavinia eagerly, "by a character something like Cherry
in the 'Beaux Stratagem?'"

"H'm," rejoined Vane. "Not quite so broad and vivacious as Cherry. That
would be out of keeping."

"I'd dearly love to play Cherry," said Lavinia meditatively.

"You'd be admirable I doubt not, but----"

"Would the part you'd introduce have a song in it?"

"H'm," coughed the dramatist again. "Hardly. There are no songs in
tragedies."

"I don't see why there shouldn't be. I love singing. When I'm an actress
I must have songs. Mr. Gay says so."

"Then you've not been on the stage?"

"No, but I hope I shall be soon. I dream of nothing else."

Vane looked at her inquiringly. To his mind the girl seemed made for
love. Surely a love affair must have been the cause of the escapade on
London Bridge. How came she to be alone with a gallant in his carriage
at that time of night? But he dared not put any questions to her. Her
love affairs were nothing to him--so he tried to persuade himself.

He was now busy in tying up the manuscript in a sheet of paper and
Lavinia was thinking hard.

The question was, what was to become of her? She had no home, for she
had made up her mind she would not go back to her mother and Miss
Pinwell was equally impossible. This impeccable spinster would never
condone such an offence as that of which she had been guilty. Neither
did Lavinia wish the compromising affair to be known in the school and
talked about. She felt she had left conventional schooling for ever and
she yearned to go back to life--but not the same life in which her early
years had been passed.

Another worry was her shortness of money. She had but a trifle left out
of the guinea her brooch had fetched. In the old days she could have
soon earned a shilling or two by singing outside and inside taverns. But
what she had done as a beggar maid could not be thought of in her fine
clothes. And during the last six months, with good food, regular hours
and systematic drilling, she had shot up half a head. She was a grown
woman, and she felt instinctively that as such and with the winsome face
Nature had bestowed upon her, singing outside taverns would be
considered by men as a blind for something else. In addition she looked
back upon her former occupation with loathing. It could not be denied
that she was in an awkward plight.

She was so absorbed that she did not hear Vane who finished tieing up
the packet speaking to her. _Widow_, with flashing eyes.--"I am sure,
sir, I hope you will do no such thing; for I would not have Lenny
beholden to them as has never given him a kind word sin' he was
born!"

The Parson smiled gravely and shook his head at poor Mrs.

Fairfield's hasty confutation of her own self-acquittal from the charge
of pride; but he saw that it was not the time or moment for effectual
peace-making in the most irritable of all rancors, viz., that
nourished against one's nearest relations.

He therefore dropped the subject, and said,--"Well, time enough to think
of Lenny's future prospects; meanwhile we are forgetting the
haymakers.

Come."
The widow opened the back door, which led across a little apple
orchard into the fields.

_Parson._--"You have a pleasant place here; and I see that my friend Lenny
should be in no want of apples.

I had brought him one, but I have given it away on the road."
_Widow._--"Oh, sir, it is not the deed--it is the will; as I felt when
the Squire, God bless him!

took two pounds off the rent the year he-that is, Mark--died."
_Parson.

_--"If Lenny continues to be such a help to you, it will not be long
before the Squire may put the two pounds on again."

"Yes, sir," said the widow simply; "I hope he will."
"Silly woman!" muttered the Parson.

"That's not exactly what the schoolmistress would have said.

You don't read nor write, Mrs.

Fairfield; yet you express yourself with great propriety."
"You know Mark was a schollard, sir, like my poor, poor, sister; and
though I was a sad stupid girl afore I married, I tried to take
after him when we came together

."
* * * * *

CHAPTER IV.

They were now in the hayfield, and a boy of about sixteen, but, like most
country lads, to appearance much younger than he was, looked up from
his rake, with lively blue eyes, beaming forth under a profusion
of brown curly hair.

Leonard Fairfield was indeed a very handsome boy--not so stout nor
so ruddy as one would choose for the ideal of rustic beauty; nor
yet so delicate in limb and keen in expression as are those children
of cities, in whom the mind is cultivated at the expense of the
body; but still he had the health of the country in his cheeks, and
was not without the grace of the city in his compact figure and
easy movements.

There was in his physiognomy something interesting from its peculiar
character of innocence and simplicity. You could see that he had been
brought up by a woman, and much apart from familiar contact with other
children; and such intelligence as was yet developed in him,
was not ripened by the jokes and cuffs of his coevals, but fostered
by decorous lecturings from his elders, and good little boy maxims in
good little boy books.

_Parson._--"Come hither, Lenny. You know the benefit of school, I see: it
can teach you nothing better than to be a support to your mother."

_Lenny_, looking down sheepishly, and with a heightened glow over his
face.--"Please, sir, that may come one of these days."
_Parson._--"That's right, Lenny. Let me see! why you must be nearly a
man. How old are you?"

Lenny looks up inquiringly at his mother.

_Parson._--"You ought to know, Lenny, speak for yourself. Hold your tongue,
Mrs. Fairfield."

_Lenny_, twirling his hat, and in great perplexity.--"Well, and there is
Flop, neighbor Dutton's old sheep-dog. He be very old now."

_Parson._--"I am not asking Flop's age, but your own."
_Lenny.

_-"'Deed, sir, I have heard say as how Flop and I were pups together.
That is, I--I--"

For the Parson is laughing, and so is Mrs. Fairfield; and the haymakers
who have stood still to listen, are laughing too.

And poor Lenny has quite lost his head, and looks as if he would
like to cry.

_Parson_, patting the curly locks, encouragingly.

--"Never mind; it is not so badly answered after all.

And how old is Flop?"
_Lenny._--"Why, he must be fifteen year and more."
_Parson._--"How old, then, are you?"
_Lenny_, looking up with a beam of intelligence.--"Fifteen year and
more!"
Widow sighs and nods her head.

"That's what we call putting two and two together," said the Parson. "Or,
in other words," and here be raised his eyes majestically toward
the haymakers--"in other words--thanks to his love for his book--simple
as he stands here, Lenny Fairfield has shown himself capable of
INDUCTIVE RATIOCINATION."

At those words, delivered _ore rotundo_, the haymakers ceased
laughing.

For even in lay matters they held the Parson to be an oracle, and
words so long must have a great deal in them.

Lenny drew tip his head proudly.

"You are very fond of Flop, I suppose?"
"'Deed he is," said the Widow, "and of all poor dumb creatures."
"Very good.

Suppose, my lad, that you had a fine apple, and you met a friend
who wanted it more than you; what would you do with it?"

"Please you, sir, I would give him half of it."
The Parson's face fell.--"Not the whole, Lenny?"

Lenny considered.--"If he was a friend, sir, he would not like me to give
him all!"

"Upon my word, Master Leonard, you speak so well, that I must e'en tell
the truth. I brought you an apple, as a prize for good conduct in
school.

But I met by the way a poor donkey, and some one beat him for eating a
thistle; so I thought I would make it up by giving him the apple. Ought
I only to have given him the half?"

Lenny's innocent face became all smile; his interest was aroused. "And
did the donkey like the apple?"
"Very much," said the Parson, fumbling in his pocket, but thinking of
Leonard Fairield's years and understanding; and moreover, observing,
in the pride of his heart, that here were many spectators to his
deed, he thought the meditated twopence not sufficient, and he
generously produced a silver sixpence.

"There, my man, that will pay for the half apple which you would have
kept for yourself." The Parson again patted the curly locks, and, after
a hearty word or two with the other haymakers, and a friendly "Good
day" to Mrs. Fairfield, struck into a path that led toward his own
glebe.

He had just crossed the stile, when, he heard hasty but timorous feet
behind him. He turned and saw his friend Lenny.

_Lenny_, half crying and holding out the sixpence.--"Indeed, sir, I
would rather not. I would have given all to the Neddy."

_Parson._--"Why, then, my man, you have a still greater right to the
sixpence."
_Lenny._--"No, sir; 'cause you only gave it to make up for the half
apple.

And if I had given the whole, as I ought to have done, why, I should have
had no right to the sixpence. Please, sir, don't be offended; do take
it back, will you?"
The Parson hesitated. And the boy thrust the sixpence into his hand, as
the ass had poked his nose there before in quest of the apple.

"I see," said Parson Dale, soliloquizing, "that if one don't give Justice
the first place at the table, all the other Virtues eat up her
share."

Indeed, the case was perplexing. Charity, like a forward impudent baggage
as she is, always thrusting herself in the way, and taking other
people's apples to make her own little pie, had defrauded Lenny of his
due; and now Susceptibility, who looks like a shy, blush-faced,
awkward Virtue in her teens--but who, nevertheless, is always
engaged in picking the pockets of her sisters, tried to filch from
him his lawful recompense.

The case was perplexing; for the Parson held Susceptibility in great
honor, despite her hypocritical tricks, and did not like to give her a
slap in the face, which might frighten her away forever. So Mr.
Dale stood irresolute, glancing from the sixpence to Lenny, and from
Lenny to the sixpence.

"_Buon giorno_--good day to you," said a voice behind, in an accent slightly
but unmistakably foreign, and a strange-looking figure presented itself
at the stile.

Imagine a tall and exceedingly meager man, dressed in a rusty suit
of black--the pantaloons tight at the calf and ancle, and there
forming a loose gaiter over thick shoes buckled high at the instep; an
old cloak, lined with red, was thrown over one shoulder, though the
day was sultry; a quaint, red, outlandish umbrella, with a carved brass
handle, was thrust under one arm, though the sky was cloudless;
a profusion of raven hair, in waving curls that seemed as fine as silk,
escaped from the sides of a straw-hat of prodigious brim; a
complexion sallow and swarthy, and features which, though not without
considerable beauty to the eye of the artist, were not only unlike
what we fair, well-fed, neat-faced Englishmen are wont to consider
comely, but exceedingly like what we are disposed to regard as awful
and Satanic--to wit, a long hooked nose, sunken cheeks, black eyes,
whose piercing brilliancy took something wizard-like and mystical
from the large spectacles through which they shone; a mouth round
which played an ironical smile, and in which a physiognomist would
have remarked singular shrewdness and some closeness, complete the
picture: Imagine this figure, grotesque, peregrinate; and to the
eye of a peasant certainly diabolical, then perch it on the stile
in the midst of those green English fields, and in sight of that
primitive English village; there let it sit straddling, its long
legs dangling down, a short German pipe emitting clouds from one
corner of those sardonic lips, its dark eyes glaring through the
spectacles full upon the Parson, yet askant upon Lenny Fairfield.

Lenny Fairfield looked exceedingly frightened.

"Upon my word, Dr. Riccabocca." said Mr. Dale, smiling, "you come in
good time to solve a very nice question in casuistry;" and herewith
the Parson explained the case, and put the question--"Ought Lenny
Fairfield to have the sixpence, or ought he not?"
"_Cospetto_!" said the Doctor. "If the hen would but hold her tongue,
nobody would know that she had laid an egg."
* * * * *

CHAPTER V.

"Granted," said the Parson; "but what follows? The saying is good,
but I don't see the application."
"A thousand pardons!" replied Dr. Riccabocca, with all the urbanity of
an Italian; "but it seems to me, that if you had given the sixpence
to the _fanciullo_--that is, to this good little boy--without telling
him the story about the donkey, you would never have put him and
yourself into this awkward dilemma."

"But, my dear sir," whispered the Parson, mildly, as he inclined his
lips to the Doctors ear, "I should then have lost the opportunity of
inculcating a moral lesson--you understand."
Dr.

Riccabocca shrugged his shoulders, restored his pipe to his mouth, and
took a long whiff. It was a whiff eloquent, though cynical--a whiff
peculiar to your philosophical smoker--a whiff that implied the most
absolute but the most placid incredulity as to the effect of the
Parson's moral lesson.

"Still you have not given us your decision," said the Parson, after
a pause.

The Doctor withdrew the pipe. "_Cospetto_!" said he. "He who scrubs the
head of an ass wastes his soap."
"If you scrubbed mine fifty times over with those enigmatical proverbs
of yours," said the Parson testily, "you would not make it any the
wiser."

"My good sir," said the Doctor, bowing low from his perch on the stile,
"I never presumed to say that there were more asses than in the story;
but I thought I could not better explain my meaning, which is simply
this--you scrubbed the ass's head, and therefore you must lose the
soap.
Let the _fanciullo_ have the sixpence; and a great sum it is, too,
for a little boy, who may spend it all upon pocket-money!"

"There, Lenny--you hear?" said the Parson, stretching out the sixpence.

But Lenny retreated, and cast on the umpire a look of great aversion
and disgust.

"Please, Master Dale," said he, obstinately, "I'd rather not."
"It is a matter of feeling, you see," said the Parson, turning to
the umpire; "and I believe the boy is right."

"If it is a matter of feeling," replied Dr. Riccabocca, "there is no
more to be said on it. When Feeling comes in at the door, Reason has
nothing to do but to jump out of the window."
"Go, my good boy," said the Parson, pocketing the coin; "but stop! Give
me your hand first. _There_--I understand you--good-by!"
Lenny's eyes glistened as the Parson shook him by the hand, and,
not trusting himself to speak, he walked off sturdily.

The Parson wiped his forehead, and sat himself down on the stile beside
the Italian. The view before them was lovely, and both enjoyed it
(though not equally) enough to be silent for some moments. On the
other side the lane, seen between gaps in the old oaks and chestnuts
that hung over the moss-grown pales of Hazeldean Park, rose gentle verdant
slopes, dotted with sheep and herds of deer; a stately avenue stretched
far away to the left, and ended at the right hand, within a few yards
of a ha-ha that divided the park from a level sward of table-land
gay with shrubs and flower-pots, relieved by the shade of two mighty
cedars.

And on this platform, only seen in part, stood the Squire's old-fashioned
house, red brick, with stone mullions, gable-ends, and quaint
chimney-pots. On this side the road, immediately facing the two
gentlemen, cottage after cottage whitely emerged from the curves in
the lane, while, beyond, the ground declining gave an extensive
prospect of woods and cornfields, spires and farms. Behind, from a
belt of lilacs and evergreens, you caught a peep of the parsonage-house,
backed by woodlands, and a little noisy rill running in front.

The birds were still in the hedgerows, only, as if from the very heart
of the most distant woods, there came now and then the mellow note
of the cuckoo.

"Verily," said Mr. Dale softly, "my lot has fallen on a goodly heritage."

The Italian twitched his cloak over him, and sighed almost inaudibly.
Perhaps he thought of his own Summer Land, and felt that amidst all
that fresh verdure of the North, there was no heritage for the
stranger.

However, before the Parson could notice the sigh or conjecture the cause,
Dr. Riccabocca's thin lips took an expression almost malignant.

_"Per Bacco!"

_ said he; "in every country I find that the rooks settle where the
trees are the finest. I am sure that, when Noah first landed on Ararat,
he must have found some gentleman in black already settled in the
pleasantest part of the mountain, and waiting for his tenth of the
cattle as they came out of the Ark."
The Parson turned his meek eyes to the philosopher, and there was
in them something so deprecating rather than reproachful, that Dr.

Riccabocca turned away his face and refilled his pipe. Dr. Riccabocca
abhorred priests; but though Parson Dale was emphatically a parson,
he seemed at that moment so little of what Dr. Riccabocca understood
by a priest, that the Italian's heart smote him for his irreverent jest
on the cloth.
Luckily at this moment there was a diversion to that untoward
commencement of conversation, in the appearance of no less a
personage than the donkey himself--I mean the donkey who ate the apple

.

* * * * *

Chapter VI.

The Tinker was a stout swarthy fellow, jovial and musical withal,
for he was singing a stave as he flourished his staff, and at the
end of each _refrain_ down came the staff on the quarters of the
donkey.

The Tinker went behind and sung, the donkey went before and was
thwacked.

"Yours is a droll country," quoth Dr. Riccabocca; "in mine it is not the
ass that walks first in the procession, who gets the blows."
The Parson jumped from the stile, and, looking over the hedge that divided
the field from the road-"Gently, gently," said he; "the sound of
the stick spoils the singing! O Mr.

Sprott, Mr. Sprott! a good man is merciful to his beast."
The donkey seemed to recognize the voice of its friend, for it
stopped short, pricked one ear wistfully, and looked up.

The Tinker touched his hat, and looked up too. "Lord bless your reverence!
he does not mind it, he likes it. I would not hurt thee; would I, Neddy?"

The donkey shook his head and shivered; perhaps a fly had settled
on the sore, which the chestnut leaves no longer protected.

"I am sure you did not mean to hurt him, Sprott," said the Parson,
more politely I fear than honestly--for he had seen enough of that
cross-grained thing called the human heart, even in the little world
of a country parish, to know that it requires management, and
coaxing, and flattering, to interfere successfully between a man
and his own donkey--"I am sure you did not mean to hurt him; but
he has already got a sore on his shoulder as big as my hand, poor
thing!"

"Lord love 'un!

yes; that vas done a playing with the manger, the day I gave 'un oats!"
said the Tinker.

Dr. Riccabocca adjusted his spectacles, and surveyed the ass.

The ass pricked up his other ear, and surveyed Dr.

Riccabocca. In that mutual survey of physical qualifications, each being
regarded according to the average symmetry of its species, it may
be doubted whether the advantage was on the side of the philosopher.

The Parson had a great notion of the wisdom of his friend, in all matters
not immediately ecclesiastical.

"Say a good word for the donkey!" whispered he.

"Sir," said the Doctor, addressing Mr.

Sprott, with a respectful salutation, "there's a great kettle at my
house--the Casino--which wants soldering: can you recommend me a
tinker?"

"Why, that's all in my line," said Sprott, "and there ben't a tinker
in the country that I would recommend like myself, thof I say it."
"You jest, good sir." said the Doctor, smiling pleasantly. "A man who
can't mend a hole in his own donkey, can never demean himself by patching
up my great kettle."

"Lord, sir," said the Tinker, archly, "if I had known that poor Neddy had
two sitch friends in court, I'd have seen he was a gintleman, and
treated him as sitch."

_"Corpo di Bacco!"_ quoth the Doctor, "though that jest's not new,
I think the Tinker comes very well out of it."

"True; but the donkey!"

said the Parson, "I've a great mind to buy it."

"Permit me to tell you an anecdote in point," said Dr. Riccabocca.

"Well!" said the Parson, interrogatively.

"Once in a time," pursued Riccabocca, "the Emperor Adrian, going
to the public baths, saw an old soldier, who had served under him,
rubbing his back against the marble wall.

You shan't say a word till I've gotten them
ready."

The cook had gone. There was no one in the house save Hannah. The two
went into the kitchen where the fire was burning low--with the aid of
the bellows Hannah soon fanned the embers into a flame and she was not
happy until Lavinia had eaten and drank.

Then Lavinia told the story of her adventures, hesitatingly at first and
afterwards with more confidence seeing that Hannah sympathised and did
not chide or ridicule.

"An' do 'ee mean to tell me you're going to Twitenham to-morrow?"

Lavinia nodded.

"What, over a worthless young man who gets drunk at the first chance he
has?"

Lavinia fired up.

"He's not worthless and he wasn't drunk."

"Hoity-toity. What a pother to be sure. Well, I'll warrant he is by this
time."

"How do you know? If he is it won't be his fault. The others were
drinking and filling his glass. I saw them, the wretches," cried Lavinia
with heightened colour. "But it is nothing to me," she went on tossing
her head. "Why should I bother if a man drinks or doesn't drink?"

"Why indeed," said Hannah ironically. "Since you don't care we needn't
talk about him."

"No, we won't, if you've only unkind things to say."

"Eh, would you have me tell you how well you've behaved and how good you
are? First you run away to be married to a man you don't care for, and
in the next breath you take no end of trouble and tire yourself to death
over another man you say you don't care for either. Are you going
through your life like that--men loving you and you leaving them?"

"You're talking nonsense, Hannah. You know nothing about it," cried
Lavinia angrily. "Let me manage my own affairs my own way and tell me
what mother's doing. You read me a riddle about her just now."

"'Tisn't much of a riddle. It's just what one might guess she'd do when
she's on the scent for money. You've become mighty valuable to her all
of a sudden."

"I! Valuable? Oh la! That's too funny."

"You think so, do you child? Wait till you hear. _I_ call it a monstrous
shame an' downright wicked. A mother sell her own child! It's
horrible--horrible."

"What are you talking about, you tiresome Hannah?" cried the girl
opening her eyes very wide.

"Ah, you may well ask. After you was locked up she pocketted that letter
from your spark and off she went to his lodgings in the Temple. She well
plied herself with cordials an' a drop o' gin or two afore she started,
an' my name's not Hannah if she didn't repeat the dose as she came back.
I knowed it at once by her red face an' her tongue a-wagging nineteen to
the dozen. She can't keep her mouth shut when she's like that. It all
comed out. She'd been to that Mr. Der--Dor--what's his name?"

"Dorrimore. Yes--yes. Go on. I want to hear," exclaimed Lavinia
breathlessly.

"I wouldn't ha' said a word agen her if she'd insisted upon the fine
young gentleman paying for his frolic a trying to fool you--which he
didn't do an' you may thank yourself for your sperrit Miss Lavvy--that
was only what a mother ought to do, but to sell her own child to make
money out of her own flesh an' blood--well I up an' told her to her face
what I thought of her."

"Make money out of _me_, good gracious Hannah, how?"

"The fellow offered her fifty guineas if she'd hand you over to him. He
swore he'd make a lady of you."

"What! Marry me?"

"Marry you! Tilly vally, no such thing. He'd spend money on you--fine
dresses, trinkets, fallals and all that, but a wedding ring, the
parson--not a bit of it. An' when he tired of you he'd fling you away
like an old glove."

"Would he?" cried Lavinia indignantly. "Then he won't."

"No, but it means a tussle with your mother. What a tantrum she went in
to be sure when she found you was gone. She fell upon poor me an' called
me all the foul names she could lay her tongue to. Look at these."

Hannah pushed back her cap and her hair and showed four angry red
streaks down the side of her face. Mrs. Fenton had long nails and knew
how to use them.

Lavinia was horrified. Throwing her arms round the honest creature's
neck she kissed her again and again. Then she exclaimed despairingly:--

"What am I do to do to-night? I dursn't stay here."

"I'm not so sure about that. I'm thinking it can be managed. Your
mother's gone to Marybone Gardens with Dawson, the Romford cattle
dealer. They won't be home till latish an' I'll go bail as full o'
strong waters as they can carry. It's not market day to-morrow and your
mother'll lie in bed till noon. You can share my bed an' I'll let 'ee
out long afore the mistress wakes."

"Oh thank you--thank you Hannah. How clever you are to think of all
this."

"Not much cleverness either. Trust a woman for finding out a way when
love's hanging on it."

"Love?" rapped out Lavinia sharply.

"Aye, it's love as is taking you to Twitenham with the young man's
rubbishy play."

"You've not read it, Hannah. It's not fair to call it rubbishy."

"Not read it, no, nor never shall, and may be I'll never see it acted
either. But I hope it will be, Lavinia, for your sake. But take care,
it's ill falling in love with a man who's fond of his cups."

Lavinia made no reply. Her face had suddenly gone grave.

Hannah ceased to tease her and bustled about to get supper--something
warm and comforting, stewed rabbit and toasted cheese to follow.

The bedroom shared by Lavinia and Hannah was in the front of the house.
About two o'clock both were awakened by the champing of a horse and the
squeaking and scraping of wheels followed by a loud wrangling in a deep
bass growl and a shrill treble.

"That's the mistress--drat her," grumbled Hannah from under the
coverlet. "She's a-beatin' down the coachman. She always does it."

The hubbub was ended, and not altogether to the satisfaction of the
hackney coachman judging by the way he banged his door. Mrs. Fenton
stumbled up the stairs to her room rating the extortion of drivers, and
after a time all was silence.

Daylight was in the room when Lavinia awoke. She slipped quietly out of
bed not wanting to disturb Hannah, but the latter was a light sleeper.

"Don't you get up," said Lavinia. "I can dress and let myself out
without bothering you."

"What, an' go into the early morning air wi'out a bite or sup inside
you? I'm not brute beast enough to let you do that."

And Hannah bounced out of bed bringing her feet down with a thump which
must have awakened Mrs. Fenton in the room below had the lady been in a
normal condition, which fortunately was not the case.

Within half an hour the two stole out of the house, and on reaching the
Ludgate Hill end of the Old Bailey turned eastwards. Their destination
was the Stocks Market occupying the site where the present Mansion House
stands. The Stocks Market was the principal market in London at that
time, Fleet Market was not in existence and Covent Garden, then mainly a
fashionable residential quarter, was only in its infancy as to the sale
of fruit and vegetables.

But the Stocks Market eastwards of St. Paul's was not in the direction
of Twickenham, or Twitenham as it was then called. Why then were Lavinia
and Hannah wending their way thither?

It was in this wise. Hannah was quick witted and fertile in resources.
Moreover she was a native of Mortlake, then surrounded by fruit growing
market gardens and especially celebrated for its plums, the fame of
which for flavour and colour and size has not quite died out in the
present day. Hannah had had her sweethearting days along by the
riverside and in pleasant strolls on Sheen Common, and not a few of her
swains cherished tender recollections of her fascinating coquetry. She
knew very well she would find some old admirer at the Stocks Market who
for auld lang syne would willingly give Lavinia a seat in his covered
cart returning to Mortlake with empty baskets. And Mortlake of course,
is no very long distance from Twickenham.

So it came about. The clock of St. Christopher le Stocks struck five as
the two young women entered the market. The Bank of England as we now
know it did not then exist. St. Christopher's, hemmed in by houses,
occupied the site of the future edifice, as much in appearance like a
prison as a bank. Sir Thomas Gresham's Exchange then alone dominated the
open space at the entrance of the Poultry.

The market was in full swing. Shopkeepers, hucksters and early risen
housewives keen on buying first hand and so saving pennies were
bargaining at the various stalls. Hannah went about those set apart for
fruit and soon spotted some one she knew--a waggoner of honest simple
looks. His mouth expanded into the broadest of grins and he coloured to
his ears when he caught sight of Hannah.

"Ecod Hannah, my gal, if the sight o' 'ee baint good fur sore eyes. I'm
in luck sure-ly. Fi' minutes more an' 'ee'd ha' found me gone. Dang me
if 'ee baint bonnier than ever."

"Don't 'ee talk silly, Giles Topham. Keep your nonsense for Hester
Roberts."

"Hester Roberts! What be that flirty hussy to I?" retorted Giles
indignantly.

"You know best about that, Giles. What be 'ee to me? That's more to the
purpose I'm thinking."

"I be a lot to 'ee Hannah. Out wi' the truth now, an' tell me if I
baint."

Lavinia was beginning to feel herself superfluous in the midst of this
rustic billing and cooing, and was moving a few steps off when Hannah
having whispered a few words to Giles which might have been a reproof or
the reverse beckoned to her, and without further ado told her old
sweetheart what she wanted.

"I'd a sight sooner take 'ee Hannah--meanin' no offence to 'ee miss--but
if it can't be, why----"

"Of course it can't, you booby. You know that as well as I do."

"Aye. Some other time may be," rejoined Giles grinning afresh. "So 'ee
be a-goin' to see the great Mr. Pope? 'Ee'll have to cross by the ferry
and 'tis a bit of a walk there from Mortlake but I'll see 'ee safe."

"I should think you would or I'll never speak to you again."

Giles gave another of his grins and set to work arranging the baskets
in his cart so as to form a seat for Lavinia, and having helped the girl
to mount, bade Hannah adieu, a matter which took some few minutes and
was only terminated by a hearty kiss which Hannah received very
demurely. Then Giles after a crack of his whip started his horse, at the
head of which he marched, and with waving handkerchiefs by Hannah and
Lavinia the cart took the road to London Bridge.

The nearest way to Mortlake would have been the Middlesex side, crossing
the river at Hammersmith, but Hammersmith Bridge had not been thought of
and the cart had to plod through Lambeth, Vauxhall, Wandsworth, Putney
and Barnes.

At intervals Giles climbed into the cart and entertained Lavinia with
guileless talk, mainly relating to Hannah and her transcendent virtues.
Nor did he stop at Hannah herself but passed on to her relatives, her
mother who was dead and her grandmother who was ninety and "as hale an'
hearty as you please."

"A wonnerful old dame she be an' mighty handy with her needle, a'most as
she used to be when she was a girl a-working at the tapestry fact'ry by
the riverside. It were a thunderin' shame as ever the tapestry makin'
was done away with at Mortlake an' taken to Windsor. It was the King's
doin's that was. Not his Majesty King George, but King Charles--long
afore my time, fifty years an' more agone. Lords an' ladies used to come
to Mortlake then I'm told an' buy the wool picture stuff, all hand sewn,
mind ye, to hang on the walls o' their great rooms. Some of it be at
'Ampton Palace this very day."

Thus and much more Giles went on and Lavinia listened attentively. The
cart rumbled through the narrow main street of Mortlake and reached
Worple way where Giles and his mother lived in a cottage in the midst of
a big plum orchard.

The old woman was astonished to see a pretty girl seated in her son's
cart but the matter was soon explained, and she insisted upon Lavinia
having a meal before going on to Twickenham.

Then Giles volunteered to show Lavinia the way to the ferry, the
starting point of which on the Surrey side was near Petersham Meadows,
and in due time she was landed at Twickenham.


CHAPTER XII

"ARE WORDS THE ONLY SIGNS OF LOVE?"


Lavinia easily found her way to Pope's villa. The first man of whom she
inquired knew the house well and guided her to it.

The house was somewhat squat and what we should now call double fronted.
The back looked on to a garden bordering the river, the front faced a
road on the other side of which was a high wall with a wooded garden
beyond.

"That be Mr. Pope's house, young madam, an' that be his garden too,
t'other side o' that wall. He be but a feeble shrivelled up whey-faced
little gentleman, thin as a thread paper an' not much taller than you
yourself. I'm told as he baint forty, but lor, he might be ninety by his
looks. We folk in the village don't see much of him an' I doubt if he
wants to see us."

"Gracious! Why is that? What makes him so unsociable?"

"He's always ailing, poor gentleman. Why, if ye went by his face he
might have one foot in the grave. When he fust comed to live here he
hated to have to cross the road to get to that there garden t'other
side, so what do'e do but have a way dug under the road. It be a sort
o' grotto, they say, with all kinds o' coloured stones and glasses
stuck about an' must ha' cost a pile o' money. I s'pose rich folk must
have their whims and vapours an' must gratify 'em too, or what be the
good o' being rich, eh? Thank 'ee kindly young madam."

Lavinia, upon whom the good Hannah had pressed all the coins that were
in her pocket, gave the man a few coppers and summoning her courage she
grasped the bell-pull hanging by the door in the wall fronting the
house. Her nerves were somewhat scattered and she could not say whether
the clang encouraged or depressed her. May be the latter, for a sudden
desire seized her to run away.

But before desire had become decision the door in the wall had opened
and a soberly attired man-servant was staring at her inquiringly.
Lavinia regained her courage.

"I want to see Mr. Gay please. I'm told he's staying with Mr. Pope."

"Aye. What's your business?"

"That's with Mr. Gay, not with you," rejoined Lavinia sharply.

The man either disdained to bandy words or had no retort ready. He
admitted the visitor and conducted her into the house. Lavinia found
herself in a small hall, stone paved, with a door on either side. The
hall ran from the front to the back of the house and at the end a door
opened into a wooden latticed porch. Beyond was a picturesque garden and
further still the river shining in the sun. She heard men talking and
apparently disputing. The shrill tones of one voice dominated the rest.

The servant bade her wait in the hall while he went to Mr. Gay. He did
not trouble to ask her name.

While he was gone Lavinia advanced to the open door, drawn thither by
curiosity. A garden grateful to the eye was before her. It had not the
grotesque formality of the Dutch style which came over with William of
Orange--the prim beds with here and there patches and narrow walks of
red, flat bricks, the box trees cut and trimmed in the form of peacocks
with outstretched tails, animals, anything absurd that the designer
fancied. Close to the river bank drooped a willow, and a wide spreading
cedar overspread a portion of the lawn.

Underneath the cedar four men were sitting round a table strewn with
papers. Lavinia easily recognised the portly form of her patron, Gay.
Next to him was a diminutive man, his face overspread by the pallor of
ill-health. He was sitting stiff and bolt upright and upon his head in
place of a fashionable flowing wig was a sort of loose cap.

"That must be Mr. Pope, the queer little gentleman the countryman told
me of," thought Lavinia.

She saw the servant in a deferential attitude standing for some time
between Mr. Pope and Mr. Gay waiting for an opportunity to announce his
errand. For the moment the discussion was too absorbing for anyone of
the four to pay attention to the man.

"Mr. Rich no high opinion has of either music or musicians," said one of
the disputants, a lean, dried-up looking man who spoke with a strong
guttural accent. This was Dr. Pepusch, musical director at John Rich's
theatre, the "Duke's," Portugal Street, Lincoln's Inn Fields.

"Dr. Pepusch is right," rejoined Gay. "That is why I favoured Cibber.
But from his reception of me I doubt if he'll take the risk of staging
the play."

"Cibber likes not you, Mr. Gay, and he hates me," said Pope with his
acid smile. "He's a poet--or thinks he's one--and poets love not one
another. Nothing is so blinding to the merits of others as one's own
vanity."

"Nay, Mr. Pope, is not that assumption too sweeping?" put in the fourth
man, of cheerful, rubicund countenance and, like Gay, inclined to
corpulency. "What about yourself and Mr. Gay? Is there anyone more
conscious of his talents and has done more to foster and encourage them
than you? Who spoke and wrote in higher praise of Will Congreve than
John Dryden?"

"Your argument's just, Arbuthnot," rejoined Pope. Primaticcio and
Nicolo dell Abate propagated the style of Julio Romano on the Gallic
side of the Alps, in mythologic and allegoric works. These frescoes
from the Odyssea at Fontainbleau are lost, but are worthy admiration,
though in the feeble etchings of Theodore van Fulden. The "ideal
light and shade, and tremendous breadth of manner" of Michael
Angelo Amerigi, surnamed Il Caravaggi, are next commended.

"The aim and style of the Roman school deserve little further notice
here, till the appearance of Nicolo Poussin." His partiality for the
antique mainly affected his style. "He has left specimens to show that
he was sometimes sublime, and often in the highest degree
pathetic."

Mr Fuseli takes occasion, by contrasting "the classic regularity" of
Poussin with the "wildness of Salvator Rosa"--we think unnecessarily,
because there seems to be no true point of comparison, and unjustly
to censure that great, we may say, that original painter.

We have noticed occasionally a capricious dislike in our author to
some artists, for which we are at a loss to account. That Salvator
should "hide by boldness of hand his inability of exhibiting her (Nature)
impassioned," is a sentence that will scarcely meet with an assenting
critic. The wealth and luxury of Venice soon demanded of art, to sacrifice
the modesty of nature to ostentation.

The principle of Titian was, however, followed by Tintoretto, Bassan,
Paul Veronese, and then passed to Velasquez the Spaniard, in Italy.

     From him "Rubens and Vandyck attempted
       to transplant it to Flanders, France,
     and England, with unequal success." The style
       of Correggio scarcely survived him, for he had more imitators of
parts than followers of the whole.

     His grace became elegance under the
       hand of Parmegiano. "That disengaged
     play of delicate forms, the 'saltezza'
       of the Italians, is the prerogative of Parmegiano, though nearly
always obtained at the expense of proportion."

We cannot agree with the lecturer, that the Moses of Parmegiano--if he
speaks of _the_ Moses referred to in the Discourses of Sir Joshua,
of which Mr Burnet, in his second edition, has given a plate--loses
"the dignity of the lawgiver in the savage."

Such was the state of art to the foundation of the Eclectic School by the
Caracci--an attempt to unite the excellences of all schools. The
principles are perpetuated in a sonnet by Agostino Caracci. The Caracci
were, however, in their practice above their precepts. Theirs, too, was
the school of the "Naturalists."

Ludovico is particularly praised for his solemnity of hue, most suited to
his religious subjects--"that sober twilight, the air of cloistered
meditation, which you have so often heard recommended as the proper
tone of historic colour."

If the recommendation has at our Academy been often heard, it has
entirely lost its influence; our English school is--with an ignorance
of the real object of colour, or with a very bad taste as to its
harmony--running into an opposite extravagance, destructive of real
power, glaring and distracting where it ought to concentrate through
vision the ideas of the mind.

Annibal Caracci had more power of execution, but not the taste of
Agostino.

In their immediate scholars, the lecturer seems little disposed to see
fairly their several excellences.

They are out of the view of his bias. They are not Michael Angelesque.
His judgment of Domenichino--a painter who greatly restored the
simplicity and severity of the elder schools, and greatly surpassed
his masters--is an instance of blindness to a power in art which
we would almost call new, that is very strange to see.

"Domenichino, more obedient than the rest to his masters, aimed at the
beauty of the antique, the expression of Raphael, the vigour of Annibal,
the colour of Ludovico; and mixing something of each, fell short
of all."

Nor do we think him just with regard to Guercino, or even at all
describing his characteristic style, when he speaks of his "fierceness
of chiaroscuro, and intrepidity of hand."

We readily give up to him "the great but abused talents of Pietro da
Cortona," a painter without sentiment, and the "fascinating but
debauched and empty facility of Luca Giordano."

The German schools here come under consideration, which, simultaneously
with those of Italy, and without visible communication, spread the
principles of art.

"Towards the decline of the fifteenth century, the uncouth essays
of Martin Schön, Michael Wolgemuth, and Albrecht Altorfer, were
succeeded by the finer polish and the more dexterous method of
Albert Durer."

His well-known figure of "Melancholy" would alone entitle him to rank.
The breadth and power of his wood engravings are worthy of admiration.

Mr Fuseli thinks "his colour went beyond his age, and as far excelled,
in truth and breadth of handling, the oil-colour of Raphael, as
Raphael excels him in every other quality.

His influence was not unfelt in Italy. It is visible in the style of even
the imitators of Michael Angelo--Andrea del Sarto, particularly in the
angular manner of his draperies. Though Albert Durer had no scholars,
he was imitated by the Dutch Lucas of Leyden.

Now it was that the style of Michael Angelo, spread by the graver of
Giorgio Mantuano, brought to Italy "those caravans of German, Dutch, and
Flemish students, who, on their return from Italy, at the courts of Prague
and Munich, in Flanders and the Netherlands, introduced the
preposterous manner, the bloated excrescence of diseased brains,
which, in the form of man, left nothing human; distorted action and
gesture with insanity of affectation, and dressed the gewgaws of
children in colossal shapes."

But though such as Golzius, Spranger, Heyntz, and Abach, "fed on the
husks of Tuscan design, they imbibed the colour of Venice, and spread
the elements of that excellence which distinguished the succeeding
schools of Flanders and of Holland."

So it was till the appearance of Rubens and Rembrandt--"both of
whom, disdaining to acknowledge the usual laws of admission to the
temple of Fame, boldly forged their own keys, entered, and took
possession, each of a most conspicuous place, by his own power."

Rubens, with many advantages, acquired in his education at Antwerp, and
already influenced by the gorgeous pomp of Austrian and Spanish
superstition, arrived in Italy rather as the rival than pupil of
the masters whom he travelled to study.

Whatever he borrowed from the Venetian school--the object of his
admiration--he converted into a new manner of florid magnificence.

It is just the excellence of Rubens--the completeness, the congruity of
his style--that has raised him to the eminence in the temple of fame
which he will ever occupy. A little short of Rubens is intolerable: the
clumsy forms and improprieties of his imitators are not to be endured.
Mr Fuseli excepts Vandyck and Abraham Drepenbeck from the censure
passed upon the followers of Rubens.

As Drepenbeck is not so well known, we quote the passage respecting
him:--"The fancy of Drepenbeck, though not so exuberant, if I be not
mistaken, excelled in sublimity the imagination of Rubens. His
Bellerophon, Dioscuri, Hippolytus, Ixion, Sisyphus, fear no
competitor among the productions of his master."

Rembrandt he considers a genius of the first class in all but form.
Chiaroscuro and colour were the elements, in fact, in which Rembrandt
reveled.

In these he was the poet--the maker. He made colour and chiaroscuro throw
out ideas of sublimity: that he might throw himself the more into
these great elements of his art, and depend solely on their power,
he seems purposely not to have neglected form, but to have selected
such as, without beauty to attract, should be merely the objects
of life, the sensitive beings in his world of mystery.

That such was his intention we cannot doubt; because we cannot imagine
the beautiful but too attractive figures of the Apollo or the Venus
adopted into one of his pictures.

Excepting in a few instances, we would not wish Rembrandt's forms
other than they are.

They appear necessary to his style. Mr Fuseli speaks very favourably of
art in Switzerland; but says there are only two painters of name--Holbein,
and Francis Mola.

The designs of the Passion and Dance of Death of the former, are
instanced as works of excellence.

Mola, we are surprised to find ranked as Swiss; for he is altogether,
in art, Italian.

The influence of the school and precepts of the Caracci, produced
in France an abundant harvest of mediocrity.

In France was the merit of Michael Angelo first questioned. There are,
however, names that rescue France from the entire disgrace of the
abandonment of the true principles of art: Nicolo Poussin, Le
Sueur, Le Brun, Sebastian Bourdon, and Pierre Mignard.

The Seven Works of Charity, by Seb. Bourdon, teem with surprising,
pathetic, and always novel images; and in the Plague of David, by
Pierre Mignard, our sympathy is roused by energies of terror and
combinations of woe, which escaped Poussin and Raphael himself." Of
Spanish art he says but little, but that "the degree of perfection
attained by Diego Velasquez, Joseph Ribera, and Murillo, in pursuing
the same object by means as different as successful, impresses us
with deep respect for the variety of their powers."

Art, as every thing else, has its fashion. The Spanish school have, of
later years, been more eagerly sought for; and a strange whim of the
day has attached a very extraordinary value to the works of
Murillo--a painter in colour generally monotonous, and in form and
expression almost always vulgar.

Art in England is the next subject of the lecture. He takes a view
of it from the age of Henry VIII. to our own. No great encouragement
was here given to art till the time of Charles I.: Holbein, indeed,
and Zucchero, under Elizabeth, were patronized, but "were condemned
to Gothic work and portrait painting."

The troubles and death of Charles I. were a sad obstacle to art.

"His son, in possession of the Cartoons of Raphael, and with the
magnificence of Whitehall before his eyes, suffered Verio to
contaminate the walls of his palaces, or degraded Lely to paint the
Cymons and Iphigenias of his court; whilst the manner of Kneller
swept completely what might yet be left of taste under his successors.

Such was the equally contemptible and deplorable state of English
art, till the genius of Reynolds first rescued from the mannered
depravation of foreigners his own branch; and, soon extending his
view to the higher departments of art, joined that select body of
artists who addressed the ever open ear, ever attentive mind, of
our royal founder with the first idea of this establishment."

After this little parade of our artists as a body, but four are
mentioned by name--"Reynolds, Hogarth, Gainsborough, and Wilson."

We are surprised that, in this summary history of art, no notice has been
taken of Van Eyck, and the influence of his discovery on art. Nor
are we less surprised that so important a branch as landscape
painting should have been omitted; Claude and Gaspar Poussin not
mentioned; yet, in the English school, Wilson is spoken of, whose
sole merit rested upon his landscape.

He should more distinctly have stated his purpose to treat only of
high and historical art.

* * * * *
THIRD LECTURE.--In the commencement, there is an unnecessary, and
rather affectedly written disquisition of the old question, or rather
comparison between poetry and painting, from which nothing is to be
learned; nor does it suggest any thing.

Nor do we now-a-days want to read pages to tell us what invention is,
and how it differs from creation--nor is it at all important in matters
of art, that we should draw any such distinction at all. It is far
better to go at once "in medias res," and take it for granted that
the reader both knows and feels, without metaphysical discussion,
what that invention is which is required to make a great painter.

Nor are we disposed to look upon otherwise than impertinent, while we are
waiting for didactic rules, the being told that "he who discovers a gold
mine, is surely superior to him who afterwards adapts the metal for
use;" especially when it is paraded with comparisons between
"Colombo" and "Amerigo Vespucci," and a misplaced panegyric on
Newton.

And much of this is encumbered with language that fatigues and makes a
plain matter obscure. There is a little affectation sometimes in
Mr Fuseli's writing of Ciceronic _ambages_, that is really injurious
to the good sense and just thoughts, which would without this
display, come free, open, and with power.

Some pages, too, are taken up with a preliminary argument--"_whether
it be within the artist's province or not, to find or to combine a
subject from himself, without having recourse to tradition, or
the stores of history and poetry_."

We have a display of learning to little purpose, quotations from Latin
and Greek, really "nihil ad rem;" the "[Greek:
phantasias]" of the Greek, and "visiones" of the Romans.

Who that ever saw even one work of Hogarth, the "Marriage à la
Mode," would for a moment think the question worth a thought.

"The misnamed gladiator of Agasias," seems forced into this treatise,
for the sole purpose of showing Mr Fuseli's reading, and after
all, he leaves the figure as uncertain as he finds it.

He _once_ thought it might have been an Alcibiades rushing from the
flames, when his house was fired; but is more satisfied that "it might
form an admirable Ulysses bestriding the deck of his ship to defend
his companions from the descending fangs of Scylla, or rather,
with indignation and anguish, seeing them already snatched up, and
writhing in the mysterious gripe."

In such fanciful humours, it might be made to mean any thing or any
body.

And we are, after all, quite at a loss to know whether the _conjecture_
is offered as a specimen of "_invention_."

He considers the cartoon of Pisa "the most striking instance, of the
eminent place due to this _intuitive faculty among the principal
organs of invention_"--we mark these words in italics, not quite
certain of their meaning.

The work is engraved for Foster, by Schiavonetti; and a wonderful work
it is--the work of Michael Angelo begun in competition with Leonardo
da Vinci. The original is said to have been destroyed by Baccio Bandinelli;
still there are the ancient prints and drawings which show the design,
and there is a small copy at Holkham.

Benvenuto Cellini--and could there be a better authority?--denies
that the powers afterwards exerted in the Capella Sistina, arrive
at half its excellence.

Mr Fuseli's description is so good, that we give it entire. "It represents
an imaginary moment relative to the war carried on by the Florentines
against Pisa; and exhibits a numerous group of warriors, roused
from their bathing in the Arno, by the sudden signal of a trumpet,
and rushing to arms.

This composition may, without exaggeration, be said to personify with
unexampled variety, that motion which Agasias and Theon embodied
in single figures.

In imagining this transient moment from state of relaxation to a state
of energy, the ideas of motion, to use the bold figure of Dante, seem to
have showered into the artist's mind. From the chief, nearly placed
in the centre, who precedes, and whose voice accompanies the
trumpet, every age of human agility, every attitude, every feature
of alarm, haste, hurry, exertion, eagerness, burst into so many
rays, like sparks flying from the hammer.

Many have reached, some boldly step, some have leaped on the rocky
shore; here two arms emerging from the water, grapple with the rock,
there two hands cry for help, and their companions bend over or
rush on to assist them: often imitated, but inimitable, is the
ardent feature of the grim veteran, whose every sinew labours to
force over the dripping limbs his clothes, whilst gnashing, he
pushes the foot through the rending garment.

He is contrasted by the slender elegance of a half-averted youth,
who, though eagerly buckling the armour to his thigh, methodizes
haste; another swings the high-raised hauberk on his shoulder;
whilst one, who seems a leader, mindless of his dress, ready for
combat, and with brandished spear, overturns a third, who crouched
to grasp a weapon; one, naked himself, buckles on the mail of his
companion, and he, turned toward the enemy, seems to stamp impatiently
the ground.

Experience and rage; old vigour, young velocity; expanded or
contracted, vie in exertions of energy.

Yet in this scene of tumult, one motive animates the whole--eagerness
to engage, with subordination to command. This preserves the
dignity of the action, and from a strangling rabble, changes the
figures to men, whose legitimate contest interests our wishes."

Another example is given--Raffaelle's "Incendio del Borgo"--a good
description follows: "the enraged elements of _wind_ and fire," we
do not see in the original, not even in the drapery of the woman
with her back to us in the foreground.

Speaking of this power of "invention," he says--after having, as we
conceive, mistaken the aim of Raffaelle in his Madonnas, and Holy
families, which was somewhat beyond even the "charities of father,
son, and mother"--"Nor shall I follow it in its more contaminated
descent, to those representations of local manners and national
modifications of society, whose characteristic discrimination and
humorous exuberance, for instance, we admire in Hogarth, but which,
like the fleeting passions of the day, every hour contributes
something to obliterate, which soon become unintelligible by time,
or degenerate into caricature, the chronicle of scandal, the
history-book of the vulgar."

It seems, strangely enough, to have been the fashion among the, in comparison
with Hogarth, puny academicians of that day, to underrate that great
painter, that moral painter. We really should pity the infatuated prejudice
of the man, who could see in the deep tragedy, the moral tragedy,
"Marriage à la Mode," any _humorous_ exuberance; or not understand
that the passions set forth, and for a moral end, are not "the
fleeting passions of the day," but as permanent as human nature--who
could see, in such series of pictures, any "caricature," or that
their object is to "chronicle scandal."

That it is the "history of the vulgar," we dispute not.

For it is drama of the vulgar as of the unvulgar--a deep tragedy
of human nature; alas!

time has not made "_unintelligible_" these _not_ "fleeting passions
of the day." As long as man is man, will Hogarth be true to nature; and
nothing in art is more strange, than that such opinions should
emanate from an Academy, and be either ventured upon or received
_ex cathedra_.

Invention, according to Mr Fuseli, receives its subjects from poetry
or tradition--"they are _epic_ or sublime, _dramatic_ or impassioned,
_historic_ or circumscribed by truth.

The first _astonishes_, the second _moves_, the third _informs_."

We confess ourselves weary of this sort of classification. They only tend
to hamper the writer, painter, and critic.

It is possible for a work to admit all three, and yet preserve its unity.
And such we believe to be the case with Homer. He is epic and dramatic
in one, and certainly historic. It is more ingenious than unquestionable,
that Homer's purpose was to "impress one forcible idea of war--its
origin, its progress, and its end."

Nor will the "Iliad" be read with greater delight, by the reader's
reception of such an idea.
The drawing forth the purpose of Michael Angelo's design--his
invention, in the series of frescoes in the Sistine Chapel--is more
happy.

That theocracy is the subject--the dispensations of Providence to
man--the Creation--life and adoration in Adam and Eve, their sin,
their punishment, their separation from God--justice and grace in
the Deluge and covenant with Noah--prophets, sibyls, herald the
Redeemer--and the patriarchs--the Son of Man--the brazen serpent--and
the Fall of Haman--the giant subdued by the stripling in Goliah and
David--and the conqueror destroyed by female weakness in Judith,
are types of his mysterious progress, till Jonah pronounces him
immortal.

The Last Judgment, and the Saviour the Judge of man, complete the whole--and
the Founder and the race are reunited. Such is the spirit of the
general invention. "The specific invention of the pictures separate,
as each constitutes an independent whole, deserves our consideration
next: each has its centre, from which it disseminates, to which
it leads back all secondary points, arranged, hid, or displayed,
as they are more or less organs of the inspiring plan; each rigorously
is circumscribed by its generic character."

The more particular criticism on this great work of Michael Angelo,
is very good, and we earnestly refer the reader to it.

He thinks the genius of Michael Angelo more generic in its aim--that of
Raffaelle more specific. That as M. Angelo's aim was the "destiny of
man, simply considered as the subject of religion, faithful or
rebellious," admitting only a "general feature of the passions;" so,
in the hands of Raffaelle, the subject would have teemed with a
choice of imagery to excite our sympathies; "he would have combined all
possible emotions with the utmost variety of probable or real character;
all domestic, politic, religious relations--whatever is not local in
virtue and in vice; and the sublimity of the greatest events would
have been merely the minister of sympathies and passions."

The latter mode of representing the subject, that of Raffaelle, he
considers dramatic.

The distinction is, however, doubtful: we do not see why the mode
of M.
Angelo may not be held to be equally dramatic. The criticism on the
comparison between Raffaelle's and Michael Angelo's Adam and Eve,
if not quite just, is striking.

"The elevation of Michael Angelo's soul, inspired by the operation
of creation itself, furnished him at once with the feature that
stamped on human nature its most glorious prerogative; whilst the
characteristic subtility, rather than sensibility, of Raffaelle's
mind, in this instance, offered nothing but a frigid succedaneum--a
symptom incident to all, when, after the subsided astonishment on
a great and sudden event, the mind, recollecting itself, ponders
on it with inquisitive surmise.

In Michael Angelo, all self-consideration is absorbed in the sublimity
of the sentiment which issues from the august presence that attracts
Eve; 'her earthly,' in Milton's expression, 'by his heavenly
overpowered,' pours itself in adoration; whilst, in the inimitable
cast of Adam's figure, we trace the hint of that half-conscious
moment, when sleep began to give way to the vivacity of the dream
inspired.

In Raffaelle, creation is complete--Eve is presented to Adam, now awake;
but neither the new-born charms, the submissive grace, and virgin purity,
of the beauteous image; nor the awful presence of her Introductor, draw
him from his mental trance, into effusions of love or gratitude; at
ease reclined, with fingers pointing at himself and his new mate, he seems
to methodize the surprising event that took place during his sleep, and
to whisper the words--'flesh of my flesh.'"

Not subscribing to any criticism which concludes insensibility of
mind to Raffaelle, and which is rather inconsistent with the judgment
made by Mr Fuseli, that he was the painter of expression, from the
utmost conflict of passions, to the enchanting round of gentler
emotion, and the nearly silent hints of mind and character--we look
to the object of the painter in this his series of works called his
Bible.

The first five pictures represent only the act of creation--the Deity,
the Creator--all nature, is as yet passive--even adoration, the point
chosen by Michael Angelo, might be said scarcely to have begun--the plan
is developed, not put in action. As yet, the Deity is all in all--Eve,
his gift to Adam, is the last of this division of the series. As in
Genesis, there is the bare, short statement, grand from its simplicity,
and our knowledge of its after consequences; but in the words
unimpassioned--so Raffaelle, that he might make his pictorial
language agree with the written book, with utmost forbearance, lest
he should tell more, and beyond his authority, in this portion of
the series manifestly avoids expression, or the introduction of any
feeling that would make the creatures more than the most passive
recipients of the goodness of their Maker.

Nor is there authority to show, that as _yet_ they were fully,
perfectly conscious of the nature of the gifts of life and
companionship; and we certainly do not agree with Mr Fuseli, that
it was a moment for Adam to show his sensibility to the personal
charms of Eve--the pure Adam--nor was he--the as yet untransgressing
Adam--to feel fear, in "the awful presence of the Introductor."

Gay turned to Pepusch and the two conversed for some little time, the
upshot of the talk being that Pepusch promised, when the proper time
came, to say to John Rich all he could in favour of Lavinia, always
supposing she had acquired sufficient stage experience.

This settled, the poet drew near Lavinia who all this time was waiting
and wondering what this new adventure of hers would end in.

"Now Polly, my dear," said Gay, "if you behave yourself and don't have
any more love affairs----"

"But did I not tell you, sir, I'd had none," interrupted Lavinia.

"Yes--yes, I remember quite well. We won't go into the subject again or
we shall never finish. The varieties and nice distinctions of love are
endless. A much more pressing question is nearer to hand--where are you
going to live?"

"Hannah, my mother's servant--a dear good kind creature--it was through
her I was able to come here--will find me a lodging. I can trust her
but--but----"

She stopped and much embarrassed, twisted her fingers nervously.

"I understand. You've but little money."

"I have none, sir, unfortunately."

"Well--well--never mind. Here's a guinea."

"Oh, you're too generous, sir. But I shall pay you back."

"Don't worry about that. Now go into the house. I will ask Mr. Pope to
tell his housekeeper to give you a dish of tea or a cup of cocoa.
Good-bye. You must let me know where you are living. I may have good
news for you within a few days."

Lavinia between smiles and tears hurried off after curtseying to the
gentlemen under the cedar tree and on her way across the lawn was met by
the man-servant who took her to the housekeeper's room. The woman had
heard the singing and was full of admiration. She wanted to hear more,
she said, so while the tea was being got ready Lavinia sent her into
thrills of delight by warbling the universal favourite "Cold and Raw."

After a time came the question of returning to London and how. Lavinia
could have crossed the ferry and so to Richmond and Mortlake, but that
would not help her on the journey unless Giles was going to market,
which was hardly likely. Besides she did not wish to burden him. And
then--there was Lancelot Vane.

Lancelot, she thought, must be anxious to know the result of her
mission. That result was not so encouraging as she had hoped. True, Mr.
Gay had the precious tragedy in his pocket and had promised to read it,
but his opinion of dramatists generally and his hints concerning
Lancelot Vane's weakness had considerably damped her ardour. In spite of
this, she determined to get to London as quickly as possible and to
hasten to Grub Street that same night.

"You can catch the Bath coach at Hounslow," said the housekeeper. "It's
but just gone five and the coach be timed to stop at the 'George' at
six, but it's late more often than not."

"And how far is it to Hounslow?"

"May be a couple o' miles or so, but it's a bit of a cross road--say two
mile an' a half. Stephen'll put you in the right way."

"Oh thank you--thank you kindly," cried Lavinia. "But it will be giving
Stephen a deal of trouble. I dare say I can find my way by myself."

"Oh, you may do that. I should think you were sharp enough, but there
are no end of beggars and rapscallions of all sorts on the Bath road and
some of 'em are bound to wander into the by-ways on the look out for
what they can steal. No, Stephen must see you through the lonely parts."


CHAPTER XIV

"I WISH YOU GOOD NIGHT AND MORE SENSE"


Lavinia and her protector set out. Stephen was inclined to be garrulous
and Lavinia had not much occasion to put in a word. He entertained her
with choice bits of information, such as how he remembered when the
coach ran between Bath and London only three times a week.

"But that was nigh twenty years ago. It were Mr. Baldwin as keeps a inn
at Salthill as started to run 'em daily. The coach stops at the Belle
Savage, Ludgate. Be that near where you want to go, miss?"

"Ludgate Hill? Oh, yes."

Hounslow in Stephen's opinion was getting to be quite a big place.

"When I was a boy it hadn't more'n a hundred houses--it's double or
treble that now, but they're pretty well all inns an' ale houses an'
mighty queer ones, some of em are. Hand in glove with highway robbers
an' footpads. Not much good a-tryin' to catch a highwayman if he once
gets to Hounslow. He's only got to run in one of the houses where's he
known an' you might as well try to foller a fox as has darted into a
drain. Some o' them ale houses an' boozin' kens has got passages
a-runnin' one into the other."

"That's very terrible Mr. Stephen. You quite alarm me," cried Lavinia.

But she was not so alarmed as she would have been had she been brought
up a fine lady. She had had highwaymen pointed out to her in Drury Lane
and Dyott Street and knew that the majority were boasting, bragging
fellows and cowards at heart. But there were others of a different
quality who did their robberies with quite a gentlemanly air.

They took the way through Whitton Park. As the housekeeper said, the
journey was cross-country so far as roads were concerned, but Stephen
knew the short cuts and they reached the long, straggling, mean-looking
Hounslow High Street--the future town was at that time little more than
a street--at about a quarter to six.

They entered the "George"--a house of greater pretensions than the
rest--and Lavinia found she was in plenty of time for the London coach.

"She'll be late," said the landlord. "A chap as just come in says he
rode past her t'other side o' the heath an' she was stuck fast on a
nasty bit o' boggy road and one o' the leaders--a jibber--wouldn't stir
a step for whip or curses."

"That's bad," said Stephen. "Still it would ha' been far worse if some
o' them High Toby gentry had stopped the coach."

"Aye," rejoined the landlord dropping his voice. "We had a fellow o'
that sort in about half an hour ago. He was on a mare as wiry an'
springy as could be, could clear a pike gate like a wild cat I'll bet. I
didn't like the scoundrel's phizog and I'll swear he didn't want to know
for naught what time the London coach passed the George. I wouldn't
wonder if he was hanging about Smallbury Green at this 'ere very minute.
But don't 'ee let the young leddy know this. She might be afeared, an'
after all I may be wrong."

Stephen nodded.

"The High Toby gen'elmen are gettin' monstrous darin'. I'm told as
they've been stickin' up bills on the park gates of the Quality
a-warnin' their lordships not to travel with less than ten guineas in
their pocket an' a gold watch an' chain, on pain o' death. What think
'ee o' that for downright brazenness?"

Stephen could only raise his hands deprecatingly, but as Lavinia was
drawing near him he made no reply.

"I've booked my seat," said she, "so please don't stay any longer. I'm
quite safe now and all I have to do is to wait for the coach. Thank you
kindly for coming with me."

"Ye're quite welcome, miss. I don't know as I can be of more sarvice, so
I'll get back to Twitenham. I wish 'ee a pleasant journey to London."

Lavinia again thanked him, Stephen departed and Lavinia prepared herself
to exercise what patience she possessed. And well she needed patience
for it was past eight and quite dark before the coach appeared at little
more than a walking pace. Then the horses had to be changed, the
coachman roundly anathematising the sinning jibber as the brute was led
in disgrace to the stables; the passengers descended to refresh
themselves and so nearly another hour was wasted.

At last all was ready. Lavinia had booked an inside place and found that
her only fellow passenger was a gouty old gentleman who had been taking
the waters at Bath. The outside passengers were but few, a woman and a
couple of men.

Hounslow was left behind and in due time they entered the road across
Smallbury Green, beyond which was Brentford. The travelling was very bad
and the coach on its leather hangings swung about in all directions. The
conversation--if conversation it could be called--consisted of
fragmentary ejaculations of mingled pain and annoyance from the old
gentleman when his gouty foot was jerked against some part of the coach.

They had not passed over the Green when the clatter of a galloping horse
was heard and almost immediately the coach was pulled up.

"Body o' me," cried the old gentleman in dismay. "What's happened?"

He had an answer in a very few seconds. A big pistol, its barrel
gleaming in the moonlight, was thrust through the coach window and
behind the pistol was a masked horseman.

"A thousand apologies for putting your lordship to such inconvenience,"
growled the highwayman with affected humility. "I'm sure your lordship
has too much sense not to perceive the force of an argument which you
will own is entirely on my side."

And he advanced the muzzle of the pistol a little nearer the head of the
old gentleman and then came an unpleasant click.

"What d'ye want, you scoundrel?" stammered the victim.

"Nay, a little more politeness, if you please. I simply want your watch
and chain, the rings on your fingers and any money you may chance to
have about you--gold in preference. Permit me to add that if you don't
turn out your pockets before I count ten I shall put a bullet in your
skull first and do the searching myself afterwards."

This command, uttered in fierce threatening tones, brought the unlucky
gentleman from Bath to book at once. Trembling, he turned out his
pockets and a number of guineas fell beside him on the seat. The
highwayman grabbed them at once.

"Your lordship is most generous and complaisant. Now for your trinkets.
Quick! Time is of great importance."

All the valuables the old gentleman possessed were yielded and pocketted
rapidly by the highwayman.

"Thanks, my lord, for a most agreeable interview. I trust your lordship
will reach your journey's end without further mishap."

Then to Lavinia's terror the highwayman turned towards her. She shrank
into her corner of the coach.

"Pray don't be alarmed, madam. I never rob women unless they tempt me
very much. Some are so foolish as to wear all the gewgaws they possess.
But you have more sense I see. Yet a diamond would vastly set off the
whiteness of that pretty little hand. Your gallant must be very dull not
to have ornamented your charming fingers."

In spite of the man's fair words Lavinia's terror was not diminished.
His eyes glinted savagely through the holes of his mask and a mocking
note in his raucous voice plainly sounded an insincerity. Apart from
this there was something in his voice which was strangely, disagreeably
familiar, but she was too agitated just then to try to trace the
association.

The highwayman stared at her for some few seconds without speaking, then
his coarse, wide lips, which the mask did not come low enough to
conceal, parted in a grin showing big yellow, uneven teeth and an ugly
gap in the lower jaw where two of the front teeth had once been.

"Adieu, madam. Let us hope we shall meet again under happier
circumstances."

And wheeling round his horse he took off his hat with a sweeping bow.
Then he set out at a gallop and did not draw rein until he reached the
"Red Cow" at Hammersmith. Apparently he was well-known, for in response
to his shout an ostler ran from the yard and at his imperious order took
his horse to the stables. Then the highwayman strode into the bar
parlour.

His mask, of course, was now removed, and the features were revealed of
Captain Jeremy Rofflash.

Here he sat drinking until the rumble of the London coach was heard.
Then he quitted the bar and went to the stable, where he remained during
the stay of the coach which occupied some little time, for the story of
the highway robbery had to be told.

No one about the inn was in the least surprised. Highwaymen haunted
Hammersmith and Turnham Green, and had the landlord of the "Red Cow"
chosen to open his mouth he might have thrown a little light upon the
man who had stopped the Bath coach.

Once more the coach was on its way and following it went Captain
Rofflash, dogging it to its destination at the Belle Savage. He watched
Lavinia alight and wherever she went he went too. Could she have
listened to what he was saying she would have heard the words:--

"By gad, it's the very wench. I'll swear 'tis. Perish me if this isn't
the best day's work I've done for many a day. If I don't make Mr.
Archibald Dorrimore fork out fifty guineas my name isn't Jeremy
Rofflash."

Shortly after Lavinia set out on her way to Grub Street. Lancelot Vane
was pacing Moor Fields--a depressing tract of land, the grass trodden
down here and there into bare patches, thanks to the games of the London
'prentices and gambols of children--in company with Edmund Curll, the
most scurrilous and audacious of writers and booksellers who looked upon
standing on the pillory, which he had had to do more than once, more as
a splendid form of advertisement than as a degradation.

"You can write what I want if you chose--no man better," he was saying.
Vane was listening not altogether attentively. His thoughts were
elsewhere.

"And supposing I don't choose."

"Then you'll be an arrant fool," sneered Curll angrily. "You're out at
elbows. You haven't a penny to bless yourself with. You don't eat, but
you can always drink provided you run across a friend who by chance has
some money in his pocket. What'll be the end of it all? You'll go
down--down among the dregs of Grub Street and you'll never rise again."

"Not so, Mr. Curll," cried Vane hotly. "I've great hopes. I've a
tragedy----"

"A tragedy! _That_ for your tragedy."

Curll snapped his fingers scornfully.

"Why, my young friend, supposing you get your tragedy staged, it will be
played one night--if extraordinarily successful two nights, or three at
the most. What do you think you will get out of it? Nothing. But perhaps
you fancy yourself a Congreve or a Farquhar?"

"Neither Congreve nor Farquhar wrote tragedies, sir," retorted Vane
stiffly.

"Indeed! What about Mr. Congreve's 'Mourning Bride?'"

"I prefer his comedies, sir."

"And so do I, but that's nothing to the point. May be you consider that
you're equal to Mr. Otway or even Mr. Cibber, I leave Mr. Gay out of the
count. He's written nothing that's likely to live and never will. He's
too lazy."

"You dislike Mr. Gay, 'tis well known, because he's Mr. Pope's friend. I
do not and that's my objection to writing for you. I doubt not you would
ask me to attack the most talented men of the age simply because you
hate them or you want to air some grievance."

"You're wrong. I do it to sell my books and put money in my pocket. If
you write for me you won't be called upon to express your own opinions.
All you have to do is to express mine and keep your body and soul
together comfortably. You can't do that now and the two'll part company
before long unless you alter. You were not so squeamish last night at
the Chapter Coffee House."

"There was a reason for that. I was full of wine and hardly knew what I
was saying."

"I'll warrant you didn't. That same wine, let me tell you, will be your
undoing. Now that your head is clear you'd better think over my offer.
It will at least provide you with a more decent coat and wig than those
you're wearing. A young man should dress smartly. What's his life worth
to him unless women look kindly upon him? Do you expect they care for a
shabby gallant?"

Vane was silent. Some of Curll's words had gone home.

"I'll think it over," said he at last.

"That's right. Think over it and if you're in love, as you ought to be,
ask your girl if I'm not right. Have a night's consideration and come
and see me to-morrow. I wish you good-night and--more sense."


CHAPTER XV

"A MAN SHOULD FIGHT HIS WAY THROUGH THE WORLD"


Vane left alone, strolled onward moodily, his eyes bent on the ground.

"In love, as I ought to be, said that scoundrel," he was muttering. "How
does he know I'm not? But what's the good? Faith, I believe I'm the
poorest devil in London and the unluckiest. Some people would say that
it is my own fault and that I've no need to be. Anyhow, my worthy father
would hold that view. I doubt if he'd kill the fatted calf if I went
back to him.... Go back! I'd rather go to the devil to whose tender
mercies he consigned me. Well, let it be so.... I've had some of the
joys of life--though maybe I've also had a good slice of its
disappointments.... It was worth being poor to have the pity of that
dear delightful girl.... God, what eyes! How sweet the tones of her
voice! I feel I love every hair of her pretty head. But to what purpose?
She's not for me. She never could be. Yet--well I shall see her again.
That's a joy to live for ... anyway. But it's too late to expect her
now. There's nothing left but to dream of her."

While thus soliloquising, kicking the pebbles as an accompaniment to his
thoughts, Vane neared the corner of Moor Fields leading to Cripples Gate
and was pounced upon by a couple of noisy fellows, friends of his, who,
newly sprung with wine, would have him go with them to the "Bear and
Staff" close to the Gate.

"No--no," protested Vane, "I'm not in the mood."

"The very reason why you should drink," quoth one.

"But I've sworn not to touch a drop of anything stronger than coffee or
chocolate for a week. I had too much port last night."

"Worse and worse. Hang it man, whatever you may have been at Oxford
University you are no disputant now. Your resolution to be virtuous for
a week won't last a day unless you strengthen it. And what strengthens
the wit more than wine?"

"Get thee gone Satan. I'm not to be tempted by a paradox."

Vane did not speak with conviction. His spirits were low. Curll's offer
was worrying him. To be in the service of such a man, whose personal
character was as infamous as some of the books he published, was a
humiliation. It meant the prostitution of his faculties. He shuddered at
the prospect of becoming one of Curll's slaves to some of whom he paid a
mere pittance and who were sunk so low they had no alternative but to do
his bidding.

Meanwhile the second man had thrust his arm within Vane's and had led
him along a few paces, when suddenly the imprisoned arm was withdrawn
and Vane pulled himself up. He had caught sight of a Nithsdale cloak
with the face he had been dreaming about all day peeping from beneath
the hood.

"Jarvis--Compton--let me go," he exclaimed, "another time."

He violently wrenched himself free. They followed his eyes and
instinctively guessed the reason of his objection. The figure in the
cloak had turned but there was an unmistakeable suggestion of lingering
in her attitude.

"Man alive," laughed Jarvis, "your argument's unanswerable. We give you
best. Woman has conquered as she always does. Good luck."

Vane did not stay to listen to the banter of his friends but hastened
towards the cloak.

"You're my good angel," he whispered holding out both his hands.

"I'm afraid I've come at a wrong moment. I'm taking you from your
friends," said the girl in the cloak a little coldly.

"You're offended. Pray forgive me if I've done anything wrong."

"Not to me. Perhaps to yourself. But I ought not to say ... no, what you
do is nothing to me."

"Do you really mean that?"

"Why not? You know it as well as I do--may be better."

"Indeed, I don't. Forgive me if I've allowed myself to think that I was
of some interest to you. Of course I was foolish to have such fancies.
Still, you've been so kind.... I hardly like to ask you if you have seen
Mr. Gay ... and ... and ... my tragedy...."

Vane could not conceal his agitation. Lavinia took pity on him and her
manner softened in that subtle inexplicable way which women have.

"Yes, I've seen him and I gave him your play."

"Ah, I can never thank you sufficiently. And what did he say?"

"He put the play in his pocket and promised to read it. He could not do
any more, could he?" Lavinia quickly added seeing disappointment written
in the young dramatist's face.

"No, indeed. But did he give hopes that he would speak to Mr. Rich at
the Duke's Theatre or to Mr. Cibber at Drury Lane?"

"I don't think he did. I can't remember. He told me he was himself
writing a play--an opera--but he was not sanguine he should get it
performed."

"An opera? It is a waste of time. Operas are written by foreigners and
the music and the singers are foreign too. What do the English care
about operas written in their own tongue? It's not wonderful that Mr.
Gay should be doubtful. Now a tragedy is a different thing. That's
something everybody understands!"

"Do they? I fear then I'm very stupid. I saw a tragedy once and I'm not
sure I knew what it was about. The people on the stage made such long
speeches to each other they tired me to death. But I'm sure yours would
not be like that."

"Ah, you say that because you want to put me in good heart. We'll talk
no more about it, nor about myself either."

"Oh, but I do want to talk about you. I've something to say and I don't
know how to say it without hurting you," said Lavinia, hesitatingly.

"You don't mean you're going to bid me good-bye?" he burst out. "I won't
say _that_. You're the only one I've ever met who's encouraged me out of
pure good nature. When I've had money to spend on them, friends have
sought me out fawning and flattering. After they'd emptied my purse they
vanished."

"Yes, yes, and that's why I want to talk to you. Aren't you easily led
to take too much wine?"

"Perhaps--perhaps, but no more than other men."

"I hope so, at least not more than the men I saw you with last night."

"You saw me! Where?"

"In a coffee house near St. Paul's. The man who left you a few minutes
ago was making you drink and the others were helping him. Your glass was
never empty save when you yourself had emptied it. I don't like that
white-faced squinting man. His voice is horrid. His vulgar talk--oh, it
made me put my fingers to my ears and run out of the house. He doesn't
mean you well."

"I--I like him no more than you," stammered Vane. "But he wants me to
write for him. It would put money in my pocket. How could I refuse to
drink with him?"

"Why not? He would not employ you if he did not think it was to his own
good. And have you promised?"

"No--not yet. He was persuading me just now but I've not consented."

"Then don't. He's a bad, a wicked man I feel sure. Have nothing to do
with him."

"I swear to you I've no desire. But a penniless scribbler has no choice
if he has to live--that is if life be worth living, which I sometimes
doubt."

"You shouldn't think like that. It's cowardly. A man should fight his
way through the world. Now a woman...."

"She's armed better than a man. Her charm--her beauty--her wit. Nature
bestows on her all conquering weapons."

"Which she as often as not misuses and turns against herself. But Mr.
Vane," the note of bitterness had vanished; her voice was now earnest,
almost grave, "you weren't despondent when you were facing an angry mob
after doing me a service I shall never forget. You underrate yourself."

"Oh, I admit that when alone I'm like a boat at the mercy of wind and
wave, but with some one to inspire--to guide--bah, 'tis useless talking
of the unattainable."

Vane uttered the last words in a reckless tone and with a shrug of the
shoulders. His eyes gazed yearningly, despairingly into hers, and there
had never been a time in Lavinia's life when she was less able to
withstand a wave of heartfelt emotion.

Her nerves at that moment were terribly unstrung. She had had a most
exhausting day lasting from early dawn. The strain of the trying
interview at Twickenham; the anxious ordeal of singing before such
supreme judges as she deemed them; the jubilation of success and the
praise they had bestowed upon her, and Gay's promises as to her future
had turned her brain for the time being. Then the episode of the
highwayman--that in itself was sufficiently disturbing.

As a matter of fact the girl's strength was ebbing fast when she reached
Moor Fields, but she nerved herself to go on, confident of her reward in
relieving the young author's anxiety and his joy at the success--up to a
point--of her errand. Things had not quite turned out as she had
pictured them. The sight of the coarse speeched, malevolent-looking man
with his squinting eye and unhealthy complexion, brought back the scene
of the night before which she would willingly have forgotten, and down
went her spirits to zero.

While she had been talking with Vane her heart was fluttering strangely.
She had eaten nothing since she had left Twickenham and she was
conscious of a weakness, of a trembling of the limbs. That passionate,
yearning look in Vane's eyes had aroused an excess of tenderness towards
him which overwhelmed her. She suddenly turned dizzy. She swooned.

When consciousness came back she was in his arms. He was as tremulous as
she and was looking at her pallid face with eyes of terror--a terror
which disappeared instantly when he saw life returning.

"My God," he cried, "I thought you were dead. I'd have killed myself had
it been so."

Lavinia gazed at him mutely. It was pleasant to have his arms round her,
and the feel of them gave her a sense of peace and rest. In her fancy
she had gone through an interminable period of oblivion--in reality it
was but a few seconds--and the struggle into life was painful. But she
was strengthened by his vitality and she gently withdrew herself from
his embrace, smoothed her hair and drew forward her hood which had
fallen back. Despite her pallor, or may be because of it, she never
looked more fascinating than at that moment with her hair tumbled, her
large dreamy eyes, and the delicious languor so charmingly suggestive of
helplessness, and of an appeal to him for protection.

"Are you better?" he whispered anxiously.

"Yes, thank you. It was very silly to faint. I don't know what made me."

"Take my arm; do, please. Why, you can hardly stand."

It was true, and the arm which went round her waist was not wholly
unnecessary. She submitted without protest and they slowly walked a few
paces.

"Though it's hard to part from you 'tis best you should get home
quickly. Have you far to go? Shall I call a coach?"

These pertinent questions threw the girl into a sudden state of
confusion. She had no home. She had but little money, for Gay's guinea
was nearly gone after she had paid her fare from Hounslow and the
incidental expenses of the journey. But she dared not say as much to her
companion. He thought her a fine lady. It might be wise to keep him in
this mind. If he knew she was as poor as he, there would be an end to
the pleasure of helping him. She felt sure he would accept nothing more
from her.

What was she to say? She could think of nothing. She felt bewildered.
At the same time the effort to face the difficulty did her good. It
revived her energy.

"Indeed there's no necessity for me to ride. I can walk quite well and
it is but a little distance to my home. You may see me across the fields
if you will and then we will say good-night."

"I'd better walk with you beyond the fields," he urged. "The streets are
just as dangerous for you as this desolate place."

"Oh no. There are sure to be plenty of people about! You shall go as far
as Cheapside, but not a step further."

Vane accepted the compromise, but when Cheapside was reached it was full
of a noisy throng and most of the crowd, both men and women, were the
worse for drink. He easily overcame her protest that she could proceed
alone and they went on to St. Paul's. Here it was comparatively quiet,
and she flatly refused to permit him to accompany her beyond the
Cathedral.

They passed the Chapter coffee house. Lavinia's thoughts reverted to her
warning to Vane on Moor Fields.

"You've not given me your promise to have nothing to do with that man--I
don't know his name and I don't want to--who made you drink too much
last night in there."

"I'll promise you anything," he cried pressing the arm which was within
his.

"Thank you, but that's not all. Swear that you will never drink too much
again. It makes me sad."

"On my honour I never will. I'd rather die than hurt you by word or
deed."

"Are you sure?" she returned with more concern in her voice than she
suspected.

"Sure? If I don't keep my word I should fear to face your anger."

"I shouldn't be angry, only sorry."

"I'd rather have your anger than your pity. I might pacify the first but
the second--while you are pitying me you might also despise me. I could
never endure that."

His voice trembled with genuine emotion. Lavinia put out her hand and he
caught it eagerly and raised it to his lips.

"You've made me happy," he cried, "you've given me fresh hope. I'll
promise you all you've asked. You must promise me one thing in return. I
can't lose sight of you. It would be eternal torment. When and where
shall we meet?"

"I don't know. Perhaps not at all," said Lavinia slowly and lowering her
eyes.

"Don't say that. I've told you why. Not at my miserable lodgings, I
grant you, but at some other place. What say you to Rosamond's Pond?"

Lavinia darted him a swift glance. The ghost of a smile played about her
lips.

"The Lovers' Walk of London! Oh, no."

"But indeed yes. What have you to say against Rosamond's Pond? Its
reputation justifies its romance."

"Neither its reputation nor its romance has anything to do with us."

"That is as it may be," he rejoined with an ardent glance. "But you
haven't said no. Rosamond's Pond then to-morrow at sunset--seven
o'clock?"

Lavinia was too exhausted in mind and body either to refuse or even to
argue. She felt as she had felt many a time in her childhood that she
was simply a waif and stray. Nothing mattered very much. It was easier
to consent than to object.

"To-morrow at sunset," she faltered.

"It's a bargain," he whispered. "You won't disappoint me?"

"Haven't I given you my word? What more do you want?"

She held out her hand and he pressed it between both his, his eyes fixed
earnestly on her face.

"I don't like leaving you," he pleaded. "You're pale. Your hand's cold.
You look as if you might faint again. Please ..."

"No--no--no," exclaimed Lavinia vehemently. "We must part here.
Good-night."

Vane was loth to let her hand go but she snatched it away and ran off,
turning her head and throwing him a smile over her shoulder--a picture
of natural grace and charming womanly wile and tenderness which dwelt in
his memory for many a long day.

Vane stood watching the fleeting figure until it vanished in the
obscurity of Ludgate Hill and then with a deep sigh turned towards
Cheapside.

"That settles it. I won't write a line for that rascal Curll. I've
promised my divinity and by God, I'll keep my promise."

But the next instant came the dismal reflection that apart from Curll he
hadn't the slightest notion where his next shilling was to come from.

"Tush! I won't think of the dolefuls," he muttered. "'Tis an insult to
the loveliest--the kindest--the warmest hearted--the ..."

He suddenly ceased his panegyric and wheeled round swiftly, his hand on
the hilt of his sword.

Absorbed though he had been in his thoughts of Lavinia, in some
sub-conscious way the sound of footsteps behind him keeping pace with
his own reached his ear. It was no unusual thing for foot passengers to
be set upon and Vane was on the alert. His suspicions were confirmed by
the sight of a man cloaked and with his slouch hat pulled over his
forehead gliding into a narrow passage leading into Paternoster Row.

"Just as well, my friend, you've taken to your heels. I've nothing to
lose and you'd have nothing to gain, save may be a sword thrust."

Congratulating himself on his escape from what might have been an ugly
encounter, Vane plodded back to Grub Street. He lingered in front of a
Cripples' Gate tavern where he knew he should find some of his friends,
but he thought of Lavinia's words and he resisted temptation. That night
he did that which with him was a rarity--he went to bed sober.

He had forgotten the cloaked man whom he had taken for an ordinary
footpad. The fellow must have altered his mind if his intention was to
follow Vane. No sooner was the latter past the passage than he darted
back into St. Paul's Churchyard and hastened westward. He overtook
Lavinia just as she was turning into the Old Bailey and cautiously
followed her.


CHAPTER XVI

"THEY'RE TO MEET AT ROSAMOND'S POND"


A masquerade was in full swing at a mansion in Leicester Square. The air
of the ball-room was hot and stuffy. Ventilation was a thing of little
account. The light, albeit there were a hundred candles or so in the
sconces, on the panelled walls, and in the chandelier hanging from the
decorated ceiling, and despite the assiduous snuffing by the servants,
was dim. The subdued illumination was not without its advantage. It was
merciful to the painted faces and softened the crudity of their raw
colouring. A mixture of odours offended the nostrils. Powder came off in
clouds, not only from the hair of the belles but also from the wigs of
the beaux. Its peculiar scent mingled with a dozen varieties of the
strong perfumes in vogue, and the combination was punctuated by a dash
of oil from a smoky lamp or two in the vestibule and an occasional waft
of burnt tallow and pitch from the torches of the link boys outside.

The masquerade was public and the company was mixed. The establishment
provided punch, strong waters and cordials and some of the visitors had
indulged themselves without scruple. The effect was seen in the cheeks
of matrons and damsels where they were not daubed. It added brilliancy
to many an eye--it gave a piquancy and freedom to talk, greatly
appreciated by the gallants. As for the dancing, in that crowded room
owing to the space monopolised by the prodigious hoops and the general
exhilaration, the stately minuet and sarabande were out of the question,
and the jig and country dance were much more in favour.

In a side room cards and dicing were going on and the gamblers were not
to be drawn from the tables while they had money in their pockets. Most
of them were women, and when the grey dawn came stealing between the
curtains of the long narrow windows, overpowering the candlelight and
turning it of a pale sickly yellow, the players were still seated, with
feverish hands, haggard faces and hawk-like eyes, pursuing their race
after excitement. A silence had come over the party. The play was high
and the gamesters too absorbed to note anything but the game. From the
ball-room came the sound of violin, flute and harpsichord, shrieks of
shrill laughter, oaths from drunken wranglers and the continual thump of
feet.

Then the servants brought in coffee, extinguished the candles and drew
back the curtains.

"Good lord, we're more like a party of painted corpses than creatures of
flesh and blood," cried a lady with excessively rouged cheeks, bright
bird-like eyes and a long, thin hooked nose. "I declare positively I'll
play no more. Besides the luck's all one way, but 'tis not my fault. I
don't want to win every time."

"How generous--how thoughtful of your ladyship," sarcastically remarked
a handsome woman on the other side of the table.

"What do you mean, madam?" fiercely inquired the first speaker who was
now standing.

"Oh, nothing madam," was the retort accompanied by a curtsey of mock
humility. "Everybody knows Lady Anastasia's pleasant way of drawing off
when she has won and the luck's beginning to turn against her."

"I despise your insinuations madam," loftily replied Lady Anastasia, her
face where it was not rouged turning the colour of putty. "So common a
creature as Mistress Salisbury--I prefer not to soil my lips by
addressing you as _Sally_ Salisbury--I think that is the name by which
you are best known among the Cheapside 'prentices and my lord's
lackeys--ought to feel vastly honoured by being permitted to sit at the
same table with a woman of my rank."

"Your _rank_? Indeed, you're quite right. It _is_ rank. Foh!"

The handsome face was expressive of contemptuous abhorrence and her
gesture emphasised the expression. Lady Anastasia was goaded to fury.

"Why, you impudent, brazen-faced Drury Lane trull! A month at Bridewell
would do you good, you----"

Her ladyship's vocabulary of abuse was pretty extensive but it was cut
short. A dice box with the ivories inside flew across the table hurled
with the full strength of a vigorous shapely arm. This was Sally
Salisbury's retort. A corner of a dice cut the lady's lip and a drop of
blood trickled on to her chin.

Beyond herself with rage, Lady Anastasia seized a wine glass--a somewhat
dangerous projectile, for the wine glasses of the time were large and
thick and heavy--and would have dashed it at her antagonist but one of
the players, a man, grasped her wrist and held it.

"Let her ladyship have her chance. She's entitled to it. A duel at a
masquerade between two women of fashion! Why, it'll be the talk of the
town for a whole week," and Sally Salisbury laughed derisively.

But so vulgar a _fracas_ was not to the taste of Lady Anastasia's
friends, besides which the attendants were alarmed and ran to prevent
further disturbance. They abstained, however, from interfering with
Sally Salisbury. Her ungovernable temper and her fear of nothing were
well known. If she once let herself go there was no telling where she
would stop. At this moment, however, her temper was under perfect
control and indeed she was rather enjoying herself.

She rose, pushed away her chair with a backward kick to give room for
her ample hoops, and curtseying low to the company marched out of the
room without so much as a glance at her rival who was on the verge of
hysterics.

Mistress Salisbury entered the ball-room, now tenanted by the dregs of
the company most of them more or less stupefied or excited, according to
their temperaments, by drink. In one corner was a young man whose richly
embroidered silk coat of a pale lavender was streaked with wine, whose
ruffles were torn and whose wig was awry. To him was talking in a thick
growling bass a man arrayed in a costume hardly befitting a ball-room,
unless indeed he wore it as a fancy dress. But his evil face, dark,
dirty, and inflamed by deep potations, the line of an old scar extending
from the corner of his mouth almost to his ear showing white against the
purple of his bloated cheek forbade this supposition.

Captain Jeremy Rofflash in point of fact was very drunk. He had for the
last three or four hours been industriously engaged in getting rid of
some of the guineas of the old gentleman from Bath, in a boozing ken in
Whitefriars. Seasoned toper as he was he could carry his liquor without
it interfering with his head. About the effect on his legs he was not
quite so sure and at that moment his body was swaying ominously, but
thanks to his clutching a high backed chair he maintained his
equilibrium fairly well.

"Idiot," snarled the young gentleman whose temper inebriation had
soured, "why the devil didn't you come here earlier? The coup might have
been brought off to-night. Gad, I want rousing. I'm just in the mood,
and the sight of that pretty, saucy, baggage--oh, you're a damned fool,
Rofflash!"

"If Mr. Dorrimore will condescend to await my explanation," swaggered
Rofflash with drunken dignity, "he will admit that I've done nothing
foolish--nothing not permissible to a man of honour."

"Devil take your honour."

"Granted sir. The subject is not under discussion at the present moment.
Now, sir, what happened? As I've already informed you, I came across the
young poppinjay and the girl sweethearting on Moor Fields. She was in
his arms...."

"In his arms! S'death! I'll run the impudent upstart through for that.
The girl's mine, by God. Where's the fellow to be found?"

"All in good time, sir. Have a little patience. Aye, she was in his arms
but it's only fair to say that she had gone into a swoon."

"A swoon? What the devil made her swoon? She's never swooned in _my_
arms and I've clipped her close enough. She giggled and tittered I grant
you, but never the ghost of a swoon."

"There's no rule for the mad humour of a woman, as you must know, Mr.
Dorrimore."

"But swooning--that's a sign she was in earnest. She was never in
earnest with me--just a hoyden asking to be won."

"I crave your honour's pardon. The girl was in earnest enough when she
smashed your carriage window with the heel of her shoe and leaped out
like a young filly clearing a five barred gate."

"Pest! Don't remind me of that. It makes me sick when I think how I was
fooled and that you were such an ass as to let her slip."

"Sir, I did my best and but for the spark who had the impudence to
thrust his nose into what didn't concern him, I'd have had her safe. But
I've made amends. I've run her to earth."

"Satan's helped you then. Where is she?"

"At her mother's house in the Old Bailey."

"That's a lie."

"Sir!"

"I tell you it's a lie. Her mother visited me at my chambers yesterday.
She'd got the story pat of Lavinia's running away with me from school
and all the rest of it. The old woman's not much better than Mother
Needham. Faith, she's a shade worse. She agreed to let me have the girl
for fifty guineas. She'd got the chit locked up she said. I went to her
Old Bailey hovel to-day--gad, I've got the smell of the cooked meats and
boiled greens in my nostrils at this minute--and damn it, she said the
girl had run away. And now you tell me she's there."

"I do, sir. With these eyes which I flatter myself don't often mistake
when they rest on a well turned ankle, a trim waist and a pretty face. I
swear I saw her go into the house."

"Ecod, I suppose I must believe you," rejoined Dorrimore sullenly. "But
what do you make of it all? Did the old woman lie?"

"Without a doubt she did. If she's of Mother Needham's tribe she can lie
like truth. Lies are half of the trade and the other half is to squeeze
the cull of as much gold as he can be fooled out of. Can't you see sir,
that her trick is to spring her price? I'll wager her fifty guineas has
swollen to a hundred when next you see her. With traffickers in virgins
the price grows as rapidly as Jonah's gourd."

"Aye, it may be so. Well, what then? Have you got a plan?"

Captain Jeremy Rofflash placed a dirty forefinger by the side of his
nose, slowly closed one eye and a greasy smile widened his thick, red
moist lips.

"Have I a plan, sir? Trust Jeremy Rofflash for that. By God, sir, I'll
swear there's no man in the world readier with a plan when its wanted.
Look ye here, Mr. Dorrimore, I've the whole thing cut and dried in the
hollow of my hand. To come to the point. The old harridan means to
fleece you. _I_ don't. Damme sir, I'm a man of my word. For a hundred
guineas I'll let you into a secret and if I fail I won't ask you for a
stiver. Is that fair or isn't it?"

"I'll swear you're no better than Mother Fenton, but I'd rather deal
with a man than a woman. Done with you for a hundred. Say on."

"It's just this. I was within earshot when the loving pair were in
Paul's Churchyard. They're to meet at Rosamond's Pond to-morrow evening
at seven. Now what's to prevent you being beforehand with the spark? The
park's lonely enough for our purpose and you have but to have your coach
ready and a man or two. A gag whipped over her mouth and we'll have her
inside the coach within a second and not a soul be the wiser."

"Sounds mighty well, faith. But will she come? What of her mother? Will
the woman trust her out of sight?"

"I'll back a wench against her dam for a thousand guineas if she's set
her heart on a man. Odds bodikins, if she comes not you won't lose. _I_
shall and it'll be the devil's own bad luck. No have, no pay. D'ye see
that my young squire?"

Dorrimore could offer no contradiction. All that remained to be
discussed was what would follow supposing fortune favoured them, and
they subsided into a whispered conference which was after a time
interrupted by some of Dorrimore's boon companions, who carried him off
to a wild revelry in the Covent Garden taverns with the last hour at the
"Finish," the tavern of ill-repute on the south side of the market.

Rofflash would have accompanied the party but that a hand was laid on
his arm and a masked lady whispered:--

"One moment, captain, I want you."

He turned. He recognised the speaker by the lower part of her face, the
round, somewhat prominent chin, the imperious mouth with its sensual
lower lip, the bold sweeping contour from the chin to the ear.

"Sally Salisbury--the devil!" he ejaculated.

"Not quite, but a near relative may be," rejoined Sally with a sarcastic
laugh. "Who's the spark you're so thick with?"

"The fool who's mad to get hold of the prettiest wench in town--Lavinia
Fenton."

"That little trollop! I hate the creature. But there's no need to talk
of her. What of the man I paid you to track? Have you found him?"

Rofflash watched her face, what he could see of it, for she had not
unmasked, and noted the slight quiver of the lips and the rise and fall
of her bosom.

"Faith mistress," he chuckled with a drunken leer, "if you're not as
crazy over the beggarly scribbler as my young gallant is over the Fenton
girl who lives in the Old Bailey--at a coffee house, forsooth! Why, to
see the pother you're in one would think the hussy had put your nose out
of joint. Perhaps she has. She's fetching enough."

Sally seized the captain's arm with a vigorous grip that showed the
intensity of her feelings. He winced and muttered an oath.

"S'life," he burst out, "save your nails for the girl who's cut you out
with the scribbler."

"She? You lie. What has he to do with the minx?"

"As much as he need have to start with. Didn't he help her to escape
from Dorrimore's arms when the fool thought he had her safe?"

"What!" screamed Sally, "Was _he_ the man?"

"Aye. I've not yet plucked the crow between him and me for that, but by
gad, I mean to pluck it."

"It won't be by fair means then. You're too much of a coward. See here,
you devil. Lance Vane's mine, and if you dare so much as to lay a finger
on him you will know what _I_ can do. There's but one road for gentry of
your profession--the road to Tyburn--and you'll take it if you cross me.
It'll be as easy as _that_."

She dealt the braggart a blow across the nose and eyes with her closed
fan. The sticks snapped and in a white heat of passion she broke them
again and again and flung the fragments in the discomfited captain's
face.

Her fury and his smarting nose somewhat sobered Rofflash. He knew well
enough that when Sally was in her cups she was capable of any deed of
violence. Years after, indeed, her temper led to her undoing when
inflamed by drink and jealousy she stabbed the Honourable John Finch at
"The Three Tuns" in Chandos Street.

Rofflash hastened to mollify the enraged beauty, and did so effectually
when he suggested a plan by which she could mortify her rival.

Sally heard him almost silently. Jeremy's plan was so much to her taste
that in a measure she was able to control herself, though her arms,
rigid by her sides, and her tightly clenched hands showed that her
nerves were still unstrung.

"You see, mistress, you did me an injustice," growled Rofflash. "I have
worked for you, aye and right well. What do _I_ get for doing it?"

"You shall have all the coin that old miser Mountchance gives me for
your next haul of trinkets. I won't touch a farthing for my trouble."

Rofflash stipulated for money down.

"You won't get a stiver," retorted Sally. "I'm as cleaned out as a
gutted herring. That cheating cat Anastasia bagged every shilling I
had."

Rofflash had no reason to doubt Sally's word. He knew the phenomenal
luck which attended Lady Anastasia's play and he had to be contented
with promises.

Thus they parted.


CHAPTER XVII

"THERE ARE SO MANY WAYS OF MAKING LOVE"


Rofflash was right. He _had_ seen Lavinia enter the Old Bailey coffee
house. Hannah was sitting up expecting her--she had arranged as much
with Lavinia--and she became terribly uneasy when midnight sounded from
half a dozen church clocks and the girl still absent.

Hannah's bedroom overlooked the Old Bailey and now and again she leaned
out of the window, her eyes towards Ludgate Hill. Lavinia was bound to
come in this direction. Sure enough about half-past twelve Hannah caught
sight of a cloaked figure stealing along in the centre of the roadway.
It was the safest way; the overhanging storeys and the sunk doorways
offered lurking places for ill-conditioned fellows on the scent for
mischief. Hannah indeed caught sight of a man in the deep shadow of the
houses who looked very much as if he were following Lavinia, and she
raced softly down to the shop, opened the door and beckoned the girl to
hasten.

"Merciful Heaven, what a fright you've put me in to be sure," she
whispered, throwing her arms about Lavinia. "Come in you truant. Lord, I
do believe you was born to plague me out of my seven senses. You look
tired to death. What have you been a-doing of? But don't worry to tell
me now. You must eat something first. Why, you're all of a tremble. Was
you frightened of that rascal as was dogging you?"

"Was there one? I didn't know it."

"One? I wonder there wasn't a dozen. A pretty young thing like you to be
in the streets at this ungodly hour. There he is a stopping now and
looking this way. Let him look. He won't see nought."

And Hannah shut to the door with more noise than she intended, much to
Lavinia's alarm lest her mother should be aroused.

"No fear o' that, child. Your mother's had as much gin an' beer as she
can carry. It was as good as I could do to get her up the stairs to her
bedroom. Sure she's mad about your running away out of reach. I've had a
nice time with her. But it 'ud take all the trumpets as blowed down the
walls of Jericho to wake her now."

When the door was securely locked and bolted there was more hugging, and
Hannah's strong arms half led, half carried the girl into the kitchen
where a fire was smouldering which a bellows soon fanned into a blaze.
Eggs and bacon were put on to cook and Lavinia, curled in a roomy chair,
watched the kindly young woman's proceedings with great contentment.

Lavinia told Hannah her story in fragments, saying nothing about
Lancelot Vane. Hannah's mind was a blank as to Pope and Gay and she was
more interested in the encounter with the highwayman. She did not ask
much about Giles, but Lavinia guessed it was a subject dear to her heart
and she did not forget to describe his mother, his cottage, and
everything about them very minutely. Nor did she omit to praise his
respectful civility and his good heart.

"And now all's said and done, Hannah," she cried, "what's to become of
me?"

"Aye, bless your heart, that's the trouble. This morning I put on my
considering cap an' was a-thinking and a-thinking when who should pop
her face in but my cousin Betty Higgins as lives at Hampstead. 'La,
Betty,' I says, 'where have you dropped from?' 'Ah,' says she, 'you may
well say that. I've been a-comin' for goodness knows how long knowin' as
my clothes line was a-gettin' as rotten as rotten could be. Yesterday
the wind caught the sheets and blankets as I'd just hung out an' down
they all plumped on a muddy patch an' had to be dropped in the tub
again. I wasn't a-goin' to have that happen a second time so I've come
up to buy a new line in Long Lane an' some soap at Couplands an' here I
be as large as life.' That put a notion in my head, Lavvy, my dear. I
told her about you and she's promised me a little room as she don't use
much, an' that's where you're going when you've had a sleep."

"Oh, Hannah, how good you are," cried Lavinia between her kisses. "But
Hampstead! Why, that's where all the fashion goes! The Hampstead water
cures everything they say."

"May be," rejoined Hannah dryly. "But there's other things besides as
I'll warrant the quality like better than the well water--nasty stuff it
is. I once drank a glass at Sam's coffee house at Ludgate where it's
brought fresh every morning and it nearly turned my stomach. There's
music an' dancing in the Pump Room and dicing and cards at Mother Huff's
near the Spaniards, aye an' lovemaking in the summer time by moonlight.
I dunno if it's a safe place for a mad young thing like you to be living
at when the sparks are roaming about."

"Pooh!" retorted Lavinia tossing her head. "I ought to know how to take
care of myself."

"Yes, you ought. But can you?"

"You silly old Hannah. Hampstead can't be worse for me than London."

"Perhaps not. If you couldn't be guarded at the Queen Square boarding
school with a female dragon as can use her eyes, why there's no place in
the world where the men won't chase you."

"Well, it's not my fault. _I_ don't chase _them_."

"There's no need for you to do that, you baggage. You've only got to
give any one of them a glance and he gallops after you."

"What am I to do if I can't alter myself?"

"Goodness knows. Things must go their own way I suppose. You can't stop
here, that's sure. It'll have to be Hampstead. But don't forget I've
warned you."

Then they both crept up to Hannah's room, and at six o'clock the next
morning they were astir, Lavinia making a hurried breakfast and
preparing to set out on her long walk. There was no conveyance as the
stage coach on the Great North Road through Highgate and Finchley did
not start until later in the day, and Hannah, a good hearted soul never
so happy as when helping others, gave Lavinia all the money she could
spare with which to pay her sister-in-law a small sum every week.

"I don't know what I should do but for you, Hannah dear," said Lavinia
gratefully. "It's shameful to take your money, but I swear I'll pay back
every penny, and before long too."

"Yes, when you've married a rich man."

"No, no. I'm not thinking of being married. I shall be earning money
soon."

"Tilly vally! How, miss, may I ask?"

"Ah, that's a secret. Mr. Gay says so and he ought to know."

"It's well if he does. Your Mr. Gay seems to be taking a mighty deal of
notice of you. I only hope it'll all end well," said Hannah with a
solemn shake of the head.

"End well? Indeed it will. Why shouldn't it?"

Lavinia laughed confidently, and her joyful tone and her face so bright
with its contrast with her desolate condition brought a furtive tear to
Hannah's eye, but she took care not to let the girl see it.

The morning had broken fair and by seven o'clock Lavinia was trudging
along Holborn on her way to Hampstead through what is known now as
Tottenham Court Road, then little more than a wide country lane.

At Great Turnstile she lingered and her eyes wandered down the narrow
passage. Great Turnstile led to Lincoln's Inn Fields, and in Portugal
Row on the south side of the "Fields" was the Duke's Theatre.
Association of ideas was too strong to be resisted. Thinking of the
theatre, how could she help also thinking of Gay's encouragement as to
herself--of Lancelot Vane and his tragedy?

Another thought was lurking at the back of her mind. She had gone to
sleep dwelling upon her promise to meet Vane at Rosamond's Pond. Did she
mean to keep that promise? She could not decide. She had given her
consent under a sort of compulsion. Was it therefore binding? At any
rate if she went to Hampstead the meeting was impossible.

It was this last reflection which made her linger. Reasons for altering
her plans chased each other through her brain. The poor fellow would be
so disappointed if he did not see her. How long would he wait? How
wretched his garret would appear when he returned disconsolate! His
despondency might drive him to break _his_ promise to her. Where was the
harm in keeping her appointment instead of going to Hampstead? No harm
at all save that she would be behaving ungratefully to Hannah. But
Hannah would understand. Hannah was never without a sweetheart of a
sort.

A sweetheart? That was the important point for Lavinia. Was Lancelot her
sweetheart? She wondered. She blushed at the idea. It agitated her. She
had not felt agitated when she ran away with Dorrimore--just a pleasant
thrill of excitement, a sense of adventure; that was all. Dorrimore had
made downright love to her; he had called her all the pet names in
fashion. His admiration flattered and amused her, nothing more. "What
did I tell you?" cried Bateese triumphantly. "Did I not always tell you
that your heart would be lighter, with this shadow gone?

And there was never any shadow but this; none--none!"
"That is all very well," Diane remonstrated; "but you two have no
business to hide a secret from me to-day, even though it make you
happier."
"We have burnt it for a propitiation, ma'amzelle; it no longer exists."
Bateese cast himself on his back at full length in the herbage and
gazed up through the drifting smoke into the tree-tops and sky.

"A-ah!" said he with a long sigh, "how good God has been to me! How
beautiful He has made all my life!" He propped himself on one elbow
and continued with shining eyes: "What things we were going to do,
in those days! What wonders we looked forward to! And all the while we
were doing the most wonderful thing in the world, for we loved one
another." He stretched out a hand and pointed. "There, by the bend, the
English boats will come in sight. Suppose, Dominique, that as they
come you launched out against them, and fought and sank the fleet
single-handed, like the men in the old tales--"
"He would save New France, and live in song," Diane put in.

"Would that not content any man, Bateese?" She threw back her head with
a gesture which Dominique noted; a trick of her childhood, when in moments
of excitement her long hair fell across her eyes and had to be shaken
back.

"Ma'amzelle," he pleaded, "there is yet one favour."
"Can I grant it easily?"
"I hope so; it is that you will let down your hair for us."
Diane blushed, but put up a hand and began to uncoil the tresses.

"Bateese has not answered me," she insisted. "I tell him that a man
who should do such a feat as he named would live in song for ever and
ever."
"But I say to you humbly, ma'amzelle, that though he lived in song for
ever and ever, the true sweetness of his life would be unknown to
the singers; for he found it here under the branches, and, stepping
forth to his great deed, he left the memory for a while, to meet
him again and be his reward in Heaven."

"And I say to you 'no,' and 'no,' and again 'no'!" cried Diane, springing
to her feet--the childish, impetuous Diane of old.

"It is in the great deed that he lives--the deed, and the moment that
makes him everlasting! If Dominique now, or I, as these English came
round the bend--"

She paused, meeting Dominique's eyes. She had not said "or you," and
could not say it.

Why? Because Bateese was a cripple.
"Bateese's is a cripple's talk," said their glances one to another,
guiltily, avoiding him.

Dominique's gaze, flinching a little, passed down the splendid coils
of her hair and rested on the grass at her feet.

She lifted a tress on her forefinger and smoothed it against the
sunlight.

"There was a war once," said she, "between the Greeks and the Persians;
and the Persians overran the Greeks' country until they came to a pass
in the mountains where a few men could stand against many.

There three hundred of the Greeks had posted themselves, despising death,
to oppose an army of tens and hundreds of thousands.
The Persian king sent forward a horseman, and he came near and looked
along the pass and saw but a few Greeks combing their hair and dressing
it carefully, as I am dressing mine."

"What happened, ma'amzelle?"
"They died, and live in song for ever and ever!"
She faced them, her cheeks glowing, and lifted a hand as the note
of a sweet-toned bell rose upon the morning air above the voices
of the birds; of the chapel-bell ringing the garrison to Mass.

The two young men scrambled to their feet.

"Come!" said Diane, and they walked back to the Fort together.

CHAPTER XXIII.

THE FLAGSTAFF TOWER.

Time pressing, the Commandant had gone straight from the orderly-room
in search of Father Joly.

As a soldier and a good Catholic he desired to be shriven, and as
a man of habit he preferred the old Cure to Father Launoy.

To be sure the Cure was deaf as a post, but on the other hand the
Commandant's worst sins would bear to be shouted.

"There is yet one thing upon my conscience," he wound up. "The fact
is, I feel pretty sure of myself in this business, but I have some
difficulty in trusting God."

It is small wonder that a confession so astonishing had to be
repeated twice, and even when he heard it Father Joly failed to
understand.

"But how is it possible to mistrust God?" he asked.

"Well, I don't know. I suppose that even in bringing New France so near
to destruction He is acting in loving mercy; but all the same it
will be a wrench to me if these English pass without paying us the
honour of a siege.

For if we cannot force them to a fight, Montreal is lost."

The Commandant believed this absolutely.

Father Joly was Canadian born and bred; had received his education
in the Seminary of Quebec; and knowing nothing of the world beyond
New France, felt no doubt upon which side God was fighting.

If it were really necessary to New France that the English should be
delayed-- and he would take the Commandant's word for it--why then delayed
they would be. This he felt able to promise. "And I in my heart of hearts
am sure of it," said the Commandant.

"But in war one has to take account of every chance, and this may pass
sometimes for want of faith."
So, like an honest gentleman, he took his absolution, and afterwards
went to Mass and spent half an hour with his mind withdrawn from all
worldly care, greatly to his soul's refreshment. But with the ringing
of the sanctus bell a drum began to beat--as it seemed, on the
very ridge of the chapel roof, but really from the leads of the
flagstaff tower high above it.

Father Launoy paused in the celebration, but was ordered by a quiet gesture
to proceed. Even at the close the garrison stood and waited respectfully
for their Commandant to walk out, and followed in decent order to the
porch.
Then they broke into a run pell-mell for the walls.

But an hour passed before the first whaleboat with its load of red
uniforms pushed its way into sight through the forest screen.

Then began a spectacle--slow, silent, by little and little overwhelming.
It takes a trained imagination to realise great numbers, and the men
of Fort Amitie were soon stupefied and ceased even to talk. It seemed
to them that the forest would never cease disgorging boats.

"A brave host, my children! But we will teach them that they handle a
wasps' nest."
His men eyed the Commandant in doubt; they could scarcely believe that
he intended to resist, now that the enemy's strength was apparent.

To their minds war meant winning or losing, capturing or being captured.
To fight an impossible battle, for the mere sake of gaining time for
troops they had never seen, did not enter into their calculations.

So they eyed him, while still the flotilla increased against the
far background and came on--whaleboats, gunboats, bateaux, canoes;
and still in the lessening interval along the waterway the birds
sang.

For the British moved, not as once upon Lake George startling the
echoes with drums and military bands, but so quietly that at half
a mile's distance only the faint murmur of splashing oars and
creaking thole-pins reached the ears of the watchers.

The Commandant suddenly lowered his glass and closed it with a snap,
giving thanks to God. For at that distance the leading boats began
heading in for shore.

"Etienne, he intends at least to summon us!"

So it proved. General Amherst was by no means the man to pass and leave
a hostile post in his rear.

His detractors indeed accused him of spending all his time upon forts,
either in building or in reducing them.

But he had two very good reasons for pausing before Fort Amitie; he did
not know the strength of its defenders, and he wanted pilots to guide
his boats down the rapids below.

Therefore he landed and sent an officer forward to summon the garrison.

The officer presented himself at the river-gate, and having politely
suffered Sergeant Bedard to blindfold him, was led to the Commandant's
quarters.

A good hour passed before he reappeared, the Commandant himself conducting
him; and meantime the garrison amused itself with wagering on the terms
of capitulation.

At the gate the Englishman's bandage was removed. He saluted, and
was saluted, with extreme ceremony.

The Commandant watched him out of earshot, and then, rubbing his hands,
turned with a happy smile.

"To your guns, my children!"

They obeyed him, while they wondered.

He seemed to take for granted that they must feel the compliment paid them
by a siege in form.

The day was now well advanced, and it seemed at first that the
British meant to let it pass without a demonstration.

Toward nightfall, however, four gunboats descended the river,
anchored and dropped down the current, paying out their hawsers and
feeling their way into range. But the Fort was ready for them, and
opened fire before they could train their guns; a lucky shot cut the
moorings of one clean and close by the stem; and, the current carrying
her inshore, she was hulled twice as she drifted down-stream.

The other three essayed a few shots without effect in the dusk, warped
back out of range, and waited for daylight to improve their marksmanship.

And with daylight began one of the strangest of sieges, between an
assailant who knew only that he had to deal with stout walls, and
a defender who dared not attempt even a show of a sortie for fear
of exposing the weakness of his garrison.

The French had ammunition enough to last for a month, and cannon
enough to keep two hundred men busy; and ran from one gun to another,
keeping up pretences but doing little damage in their hurry.

Their lucky opening shots had impressed Amherst, and he was one to
cling to a notion of his enemy's strength.

He solemnly effected a new landing at six hundred yards' distance,
opened his lines across the north-western corner of the fort, kept
his men entrenching for two days and two nights, brought up thirty
guns, and, advancing them within two hundred yards, began at his
leisure to knock holes in the walls.

Meantime, twenty guns, anchored out in the river, played on the broad
face of the fort and swept the Commandant's lunette out of existence.

And with all this prodigious waste of powder but five of the garrison
had fallen, and three of these by the bursting of a single shell.

The defenders understood now that they were fighting for time, and told
each other that when their comedy was played out and the inevitable
moment came, the British General would not show himself fierce in
revenge-- "provided," they would add, "the Seigneur does not try his
patience too far." It was Father Launoy who set this whisper going from
lip to lip, and so artfully that none suspected him for its author;
Father Launoy, who had been wont to excite the patriotism of the faithful
by painting the English as devils in human shape.

He was a brave man; but he held this resistance to be senseless and did
not believe for an instant that Montreal would use the delay or,
using it, would strike with any success.

At first the tremendous uproar of the enemy's artillery and its
shattering effect on the masonry of their fortress, had numbed the
militiamen's nerves; they felt the place tumbling about their ears.

But as the hours passed they discovered that round-shot could be
dodged and that even bursting shells, though effective against stones
and mortar, did surprisingly small damage to life and limb; and
with this discovery they began almost to taste the humour of the
situation.

They fed and rested in bomb-proof chambers which the Commandant and
M. Etienne had devised in the slope of earth under the _terre-plein_;
and from these they watched and discussed in safety the wreckage done
upon the empty buildings across the courtyard.

One of these caves had at the beginning of the siege been assigned to
Diane; and from the mouth of it, seated with Felicite beside her,
she too watched the demolition; but with far different thoughts.

She knew better than these militiamen her father's obstinacy, and that
his high resolve reached beyond the mere gaining of time.
It seemed to her that God was drawing out the agony; and with the end
before her mind she prayed Him to shorten this cruel interval.

Early on the third morning the British guns had laid open a breach
six feet wide at the north-western angle, close by the foot of the
flagstaff tower; and Amherst, who had sent off a detachment of the
Forty-sixth with a dozen Indian guides to fetch a circuit through
the woods and open a feint attack in the rear of the fort, prepared
for a general assault.

But first he resolved to summon the garrison again.

To carry his message he chose the same officer as before, a Captain
Muspratt of the Forty-fourth Regiment.

Now as yet the cannonade had not slackened, and it chanced that as the
General gave Muspratt his instructions, an artillery sergeant in
command of a battery of mortars on the left, which had been advanced
within two hundred yards of the walls, elevated one of his pieces
and lobbed a bomb clean over the summit of the flagstaff tower.

It was a fancy shot, fired--as the army learnt afterwards--for a
wager; but its effect staggered all who watched it. The fuse was quick,
and the bomb, mounting on its high curve, exploded in a direct line
between the battery and the flagstaff.

One or two men from the neighbouring guns shouted bravos. The sergeant
slapped his thigh and was turning for congratulations, but suddenly paused,
stock-still and staring upward.

The flagstaff stood, apparently untouched. But what had become of the
flag?

A moment before it had been floating proudly enough, shaking its folds
loose to the light breeze. Now it was gone. Had the explosion
blown it to atoms? Not a shred of it floated away on the wind.

A man on the sergeant's right called out positively that a couple of
seconds after the explosion, and while the smoke was clearing, he had
caught a glimpse of something white--something which looked like
a flag--close by the foot of the staff; and that an arm had reached
up and drawn it down hurriedly.

He would swear to the arm; he had seen it distinctly above the edge of the
battlements. In his opinion the fort was surrendering, and someone
aloft there had been pulling down the flag as the bomb burst.

The General, occupied for the moment in giving Captain Muspratt his
instructions, had not witnessed the shot. But he turned at the shout
which followed, caught sight of the bare flagstaff, and ordering
his bugler to sound the "Cease firing," sent forward the captain
at once to parley.

With Muspratt went a sergeant of the Forty-sixth and a bugler.
The sergeant carried a white flag. Ascending the slope briskly, they
were met at the gate by M. Etienne.

The sudden disappearance of the flag above the tower had mystified
the garrison no less thoroughly than the British.

They knew the Commandant to be aloft there with Sergeant Bedard, and the
most of the men could only guess, as their enemies had guessed,
that he was giving the signal of surrender.

But this M.

Etienne could by no means believe; it belied his brother's nature as
well as his declared resolve.

And so, while the English captain with great politeness stated his
terms--which were unconditional surrender and nothing less--the
poor gentleman kept glancing over his shoulder and answering at
random, "Yes, yes," or "Precisely--if you will allow me," or "Excuse
me a moment, until my brother--" In short, he rambled so that Captain
Muspratt could only suppose his wits unhinged.

It was scarce credible that a sane man could receive such a message
inattentively, and yet this old gentleman did not seem
to be listening!

Diane meanwhile stood at the mouth of her shelter with her eyes
lifted, intent upon the tower's summit.

She, too had seen the flag run down with the bursting of the bomb,
and she alone had hit in her mind on the true explanation--that a
flying shard had cut clean through the up-halliard close to the staff,
and the flag--heavy with golden lilies of her own working--had at
once dropped of its own weight. She had caught sight, too, of her
father's arm reaching up to grasp it, and she knew why.

The flagstaff had a double set of halliards.

She waited--waited confidently, since her father was alive up there.
She marvelled that he had escaped, for the explosion had seemed to wrap
the battlements in one sheet of fire.

Nevertheless he was safe--she had seen him--and she waited for the flag
to rise again.

Minutes passed. She took a step forward from her shelter.

The firing had ceased and the courtyard was curiously still and
empty. Then four of the five militiamen posted to watch the back of the
building came hurrying across towards the gateway.

She understood--her senses being strung for the moment so tensely that
they seemed to relieve her of all trouble of thinking--she understood
that a parley was going forward at the gate and that these men
were hurrying from their posts to hear it.
However, there would be no harm in fixing the bearings of the pond in
her mind and so she crossed the park and skirting the formal canal now
transformed into the ornamental water, reached the pond which was at the
end of Birdcage Walk near Buckingham House, an enlarged version of which
is known to us to-day as Buckingham Palace.

The pond was amidst picturesque surroundings. There was nothing of the
primness which William III. had brought with him from Holland. The
trees had been allowed to grow as they pleased, the shrubs were
untrimmed, the grass uncut. The banks of the pond were steep in places,
shelving in others. Here and there were muddy patches left by the water
receding after heavy rains. But the wildness and the seclusion had their
attractions, and little wonder was it that love had marked Rosamond's
Pond as its own.

There was something like a promenade on the higher ground to the east.
Here it was dry and Lavinia decided that this was the most likely spot
which Lancelot would select. Moreover, a path from the Mall near St.
James's Palace led direct to the Pond and by this path Vane would be
sure to come.

The crisp air was exhilarating and the young grass gave it sweetness.
The twittering of the birds suggested a passage of love. The mid-day sun
shone upon the distant Abbey and very romantic did its towers look
against the blue sky.

Lavinia's spirits rose. She felt very happy. Her real life was
beginning. All that had happened, her mad escapade with Dorrimore, the
baseness of her mother, her escape from the house in the Old Bailey, her
many trials and tribulations were mere trifles to be forgotten as soon
as possible. But her thoughts of Lancelot Vane--oh, they were serious
enough. There was no pretence about them. And to fill her cup of joy
would be her first appearance on the stage!

For a brief space this overpowered everything. Coming to a bench she sat
down, drew out the manuscript of the play and read over her part and
recalled everything Spiller had said about the various points. When she
rose she knew the lines and the cues by heart. Then it occurred to her
that she was hungry and she pursued her way back to her lodgings in
Little Queen Street.


CHAPTER XIX

AT ROSAMUND'S POND


In the course of the day Lavinia made the acquaintance of Mrs. Egleton.
The landlady had told the actress how Spiller had brought Lavinia and
how the latter was to appear at the New Theatre. Mrs. Egleton, a dark
young woman somewhat pallid and with eyes which suggested that she had a
temper which she would be ready to show if put out, was languid and
patronising. Though it was past noon the lady had not long got out of
bed, and her dress was careless, her hair straggling, her complexion
sallow and the dark half circles beneath her eyes were significant of
nerve exhaustion. She had in fact the night before sat up late gaming,
dancing, eating, drinking--especially drinking--with a party of friends.
The time was to come when she and Lavinia would be closely associated,
but at that moment it was the last thing that entered into the heads of
either.

Mindful of her appointment Lavinia set out early. She had taken great
pains over her toilet and she looked very attractive. She had no need of
paint and powder. Excitement had brought a flush to her cheek. The
fluttering of her heart, the impatience at the lagging time were new
sensations. She had experienced nothing like this disturbing emotion
when she set out on a much more hazardous enterprise to meet Archibald
Dorrimore. The difference puzzled her but she did not trouble to seek
the reason. It did not occur to her that she was really and truly in
love with Lancelot Vane.

She had plenty of time to reach the trysting place, but to walk slowly
was impossible. Her nerves were in too much of a quiver. It hardly
wanted a half hour of seven o'clock when she entered upon the path,
leading from St. James's Palace to the pond.

Vane was not less desirous of being punctual than Lavinia, and he had
indeed arrived at Rosamond's Pond some five minutes before her. While he
was impatiently pacing by the side of the water and anxiously looking
along the path by which he expected she would come, a lady whose dress
was in the height of the mode and masked approached him. In those days a
mask did not necessarily imply mystery. A mask was worn to serve as a
veil and a woman with her features thus hidden did not excite more
attention than that of mere curiosity. Vane had noticed her turning her
face towards him as she passed, but thought nothing of it.

Suddenly she stopped, stepped back a pace and whispered softly:--

"Mr. Vane, is it not?"

"That is my name, madam."

"Ah, I hoped I was not mistaken. You don't remember me?"

"I beg your forgiveness if I say I do not."

"Nor a certain night not long ago when you were flying from a ruffianly
mob and you sought the shelter of my house? But may be you've a short
memory. Mine isn't so fleeting. Men's kisses are lightly bestowed. Women
are different. I shall never forget the tender touch of your lips."

She sighed, lifted her mask for a moment and replaced it. To Vane's
infinite confusion he recognised Sally Salisbury.

"Madam," he faltered, "I--I venture to suggest that you're under a
misapprehension. It was not I who kissed."

Sally drew herself up with a disdainful air. She had a fine figure and
she knew how to display it.

"What?" she cried. "Do you dare to deny your farewell embrace?"

"Madam--really I----"

He was more embarrassed than ever. It was untrue to say that he had
kissed her. The kisses were hers and hers alone, but it would be
ungallant to tell her so. He cursed the evil star which had chanced to
throw her against him at such a crisis. Lavinia might make her
appearance at any moment and what would she think?

But the stars had nothing to do with the matter, nor chance either. It
was a ruse, a worked out design between Sally and Rofflash to secure
Vane and spite Lavinia whom she hated more than enough.

Meanwhile Lavinia was drawing near. Mistress Salisbury had shifted her
position and had manoeuvred so as she could glance down the path to St.
James's Palace and perforce Vane had his back towards it. Sally's sharp
eyes caught sight of a figure which she shrewdly guessed was Lavinia's.

Preparing herself for a crowning piece of craft, Sally suddenly relaxed
her rigidity and inclined langorously towards Vane who had no
alternative save catching her. No sooner did she feel his arms than she
sank gracefully into them, her handkerchief to her eyes.

"Madam," stammered the troubled young man, "pray recollect yourself. I
protest----"

"Protest! Oh, how cruel--how hard hearted! I love you. Can you hear me
make such a confession and be unmoved? I throw myself at your feet."

"For God's sake, madam, don't do anything so foolish."

He could feel her slipping gradually to the ground and he could not but
hold her tighter, and so did exactly what she was angling for.

"It's Heaven to feel your embrace," she murmured. "Dear--dearest
Lancelot. Oh, if you only knew how I've longed and prayed we might meet!
I never thought to see you again, and here, without a moment's warning,
I'm face to face with you. Can you wonder I'm unable to control myself?
I know it's folly--weakness--anything you like to call it. I don't care.
I love you and that's all I know. Kiss me, Lancelot!"

The unhappy Vane was at his wits' end. The more he tried to release
himself the closer she clung to him. Who seeing them could doubt that
they were ardent lovers? Sally's last words were uttered in a tone of
reckless passion, partly stimulated, partly real. She had raised her
voice purposely. She knew its penetrating accents would reach the ears
for which the loving words were really intended. She saw Lavinia who was
hastening towards them stop suddenly, then her figure swayed slightly,
her head bent forward, and in a few moments there was hesitation.
Finally she wheeled round and fled.

Sally Salisbury had secured a complete victory so far as her rival was
concerned, but she had not won Lancelot Vane. She did not delude herself
into the belief that she had, but her triumph would come.

Vane succeeded in wrenching himself free, but not for some minutes. On
one excuse or another she detained him and it was only on his promising
to meet her the following night at Spring Gardens that he managed to
make his escape. It was too late. In vain he waited for Lavinia, but she
came not. He was plunged in the depths of disappointment.

"She never meant to keep her word," he muttered savagely and strode
along the path towards St. James's Palace, hoping against hope that he
might chance to meet her.

Lancelot Vane was not the only man in the park at that moment who was
angered at Lavinia's non-appearance. When Vane was trying to repel
Sally's embarrassing caresses a coach stopped on the western side of the
Park at the point nearest to Rosamond's Pond. The coach could have been
driven into the Park itself, but this could not be done without the
King's permission. Two men got out and walked rapidly to the pond.

"A quarter past seven," said one drawing his watch from his fob. "The
time of meeting, Rofflash, you say was seven."

"Aye, and they'll be punctual to the minute, I'll swear."

"Then we ought to find the turtle doves billing and cooing. A thousand
pities we couldn't get the coach nearer. Damn His Majesty King George,
say I."

"Talk under your breath, Mr. Dorrimore, if you must air your traitorous
speeches," whispered Rofflash. "You don't seem to know that what you've
been saying is little short of 'God save King James,' which is treason
in any case and doubly dyed treason when uttered in the Royal Park."

"Treason or not, I vow that if my coach were more handy it would help us
vastly. Carrying the girl a few yards were an easy matter and a squeal
or two of no consequence, but five hundred yards--pest take it."

"S'blood, sir, she's no great weight and with so precious a burden in
your arms 't'would be but a whet to appetite. Still, if you're unequal
to the task, pray command me. I'd take her and willing."

"That I'll swear you would. Wait till I call on you. What of that pair
by the pond? Curse it, but I believe they're our quarries. She has two
arms round his neck. The wanton baggage! And she once protested she
loved me! On to 'em, Rofflash. Engage the fellow while I handle the
wench. Eh?--Why--look ye there, captain. He's thrown her off. He's
going. A tiff I'll swear. What a piece of luck! She's by herself. Now's
our time. Bustle, damn you."

Rofflash made a show of bustling, but it was nothing but show. The
mature damsel from whom Vane had hurried was half a head taller than
Lavinia. He knew who she was perfectly well, for had he not plotted with
Sally Salisbury to meet Lancelot Vane, to the discomfiture of Lavinia
Fenton?

The crafty Rofflash had contrived to have two strings to his bow.
Dorrimore would pay him to help abduct Lavinia, and Sally would do the
same for his good offices concerning Vane. He had certainly succeeded in
the latter case, but as to Lavinia, the certainty was not so evident.
She was nowhere to be seen. Dorrimore, however, for the moment was under
the impression that the woman who was standing gazing at Vane's
retreating figure was Lavinia and it was not Rofflash's game to
undeceive him.

Dorrimore soon discovered his mistake.

"Sally Salisbury! The devil!"

Of course he recognised her. What fashionable profligate young or old
would not?

"Why Archie," rejoined the lady laughingly and making him a mocking
curtsey, "were you looking for me? Faith, I'm glad of it. A bottle of
Mountain port would be exactly to my taste."

"Was that your gallant who left you just now?"

"One of them," said Sally coolly.

Dorrimore turned angrily to Rofflash.

"What the devil does this mean? Have you tricked me?"

"I'll swear I haven't. If anybody's been playing tricks it's that crazy
cat Sally," returned Rofflash in a low voice. "Your bird can't have
flown very far. Her man was here, you see. Let's follow him. We're bound
to light upon them together."

The suggestion was as good as any other. Dorrimore refreshed himself
with a string of the latest oaths in fashion and set off with the
scheming captain, leaving Sally somewhat provoked. He instances, by a
given subject, that were the artist to choose the "Death of Germanicus,"
he is never to forget that he is to represent "a Roman dying amidst
Romans," and not to suffer individual grief to un-Romanize his
subject.

"Germanicus, Agrippina, Caius, Vitellius, the Legates, the Centurions
at Antioch, the hero, the husband, the father, the friend, the leader--the
struggles of nature and sparks of hope, must be subjected to the
physiognomic character and features of Germanicus, the son of Drusus,
the Caesar of Tiberius.

Maternal, female, connubial passion, must be tinged by Agrippina, the
woman absorbed in the Roman, less lover than companion of her
husband's grandeur.

Even the bursts of friendship, attachment, allegiance, and revenge, must
be stamped by the military ceremonial, and distinctive costume of Rome."
For an instance of this propriety of invention in history, reference
is made, we presume as much, to Mr West's "Death of Wolfe."

Undoubtedly, this is Mr West's best picture. The praise from Mr Fuseli
was, in all probability, purely academic; he frequently showed that he
did not too highly estimate the genius of the painter. Having given
these outlines of general and specific invention in the epic, dramatic,
and historic branches of art, he admits that there is not always
a nice discrimination of their limits: "and as the mind and fancy
of man, upon the whole, consist of mixed qualities, we seldom meet
with a human performance exclusively made up of epic, dramatic, or
pure historic materials."

James's Street, where
Dorrimore drank and drank until he fell under the table and was carried
out by a couple of waiters, put in a hackney coach and conveyed to his
chambers in the Temple.

Rofflash left his patron at the tavern long before this period arrived.
He was on the search for Mistress Salisbury and knowing her haunts
pretty well, he ran her to earth at a house of questionable repute in
the neighbourhood of Charing Cross. Sally had had more to drink than the
bottle of Mountain port her soul had craved for and was inclined to be
boisterous, but her temper was apt to be uncertain. It was a toss up
whether she laughed, cried or flew into a passion. She was inclined to
the first if she thought of her triumph over Lavinia and to the last
when Lancelot Vane and her failure to seduce him from his allegiance
came into her mind.

Sally often boasted she could win any man if she gave her mind to the
task, but Vane had escaped her toils. Perhaps it was that she had a
genuine passion for him and so had not used her powers of fascination.
The more she drank, the more she cursed herself for having allowed Vane
to slip through her fingers, and being in a reckless mood, she said as
much to Rofflash. Otherwise she would hardly have made a confidant of a
fellow who combined swash-buckling with highway robbery.

"What!" jeered Captain Jeremy, "Sally Salisbury own herself beaten over
a man. I'd as lief believe my old commander the great Duke Marlborough
crying he couldn't thrash the mounseers. I'll swear you didn't let him
go without getting the promise of an assignation out of him."

"A promise? Don't talk of promises. It's easier to get a promise out of
a man than his purse."

"Lord, madam, if it's the purse of that vapouring young spark you're
after, you'll be wasting your labour. You'll find it as empty as yonder
bottle. I'll swear now that you set greater store by his heart."

Rofflash glanced shrewdly at Sally's face. Her lips were working
convulsively. He knew he was right.

"You're a cunning devil, captain. You've the wheedling tongue of Satan
himself and his black soul, too, I doubt not. You're all ears and eyes
when money's to be picked up. Take that for what you did for me
to-night."

Sally drew five guineas from her pocket and flung them on the table. A
couple would have rolled on to the floor, but Rofflash grabbed them in
time. Sally burst into one of her hard, mirthless laughs.

"Trust you for looking after coin. See here, you Judas. Vane promised to
meet me at Spring Gardens to-morrow night. When I see him I shall
believe him, not before. You must work it so that he comes."

"Hang me, Sally, but that's a hard nut to crack."

"Not too hard for your tiger's teeth. I'll double those five guineas if
you bring it off."

Rofflash relished the proposition, but he pretended to find difficulties
and held out for higher pay. To Sally money was as water. She agreed to
make the ten into fifteen. Rofflash swearing that he'd do his best, took
his departure and left the lady, like Archibald Dorrimore, to drink
herself into insensibility.

"The devil looks after his own," chuckled Rofflash as he swaggered down
the Strand. "It'll go hard if I don't squeeze fifty guineas out of that
idiot Dorrimore over to-morrow night's work! He'd give that to have the
pleasure of running the scribbler through the body. Lord, if I'd
breathed a word of _that_ to Sally! No fool like an old fool, they say.
Bah! The foolishest thing in Christendom is a woman when she's in love."

And Captain Jeremy Rofflash plodded on, well pleased with himself. He
took the road which would lead him to Moorfields and Grub Street.


CHAPTER XX

"WHAT DID I TELL THEE, POLLY?"


Lavinia went to her first rehearsal in a strange confusion of spirits,
but came through the ordeal successfully. She was letter perfect, and
she remembered all Spiller's instructions. Mr. Huddy was pleased to say
that he thought she would do.

She left the theatre for her lodgings in Little Queen Street in a
flutter of excitement. Otway's "Orphan" might be dull and lachrymose,
the part of Serina might be insignificant, but to Lavinia the play was
the most wonderful thing. It meant a beginning. She had got the chance
she had longed for. She saw herself in imagination a leading lady.

But when she returned to her lodgings a reaction set in. She was
depressed. Life had suddenly become drab and dull. She was thinking of
Lancelot Vane, but not angrily, as was the case the previous night when
she walked away her head high in the air after seeing Sally
Salisbury--of all women in the world!--in his arms. She was in a tumult
of passion, and when that subsided tears of indignation rushed to her
eyes. She made no excuses for her recreant lover, no allowances for
accidents and misadventures. She did not, indeed, think he had set out
to insult her, but the unhappy fact was patent that he knew the wanton
Sally, and that he had a tender regard for her. Lavinia's reading of the
thing was that in her anxiety she had arrived at the trysting place too
soon. Ten minutes later and Vane would have got rid of his old love and
taken on with his new one. Oh, it was humiliating to think of!

Lavinia walked away in her rage. By the time she reached Little Queen
Street, the storm had passed. She had arrived at the conclusion that all
men were faithless, selfish, dishonourable. For the future she would
have naught to do with them.

The excitement of the rehearsal, the sense of independence she felt when
all was got through with credit, lent her buoyancy, but it did not last.
The dream she had once had of playing to an audience and seeing only
Lancelot Vane in the first row of the pit applauding and eager to
congratulate her, was gone. She was done with him for ever. So she told
herself. And to strengthen this resolve she recalled his weaknesses, his
vacillation, his distrust in himself, his lapses into inebriety. Yet no
sooner had she gone over his sins than she felt pity and inclined to
forgiveness. But not forgiveness for his faithlessness. That was
unpardonable.

Mrs. Egleton, her fellow lodger, had the night before gone to bed sober
and was inclined to be complaisant and to interest herself in Lavinia.
She was pleased to hear that Huddy had praised her.

"If he asks you to join his company, don't you refuse," said Mrs.
Egleton. "He's got a rough tongue when he's put out, but he knows his
business. Three months' experience will do wonders. I must come and see
you on _the_ night. When is it to be?"

Lavinia said she hadn't the least idea.

"Oh, well, you'll soon know."

Mrs. Egleton was right. In the next issue of the _Daily Post_ appeared
this advertisement:--


     "At the desire of several persons of quality for the benefit of Mr.
     Huddy, at the New Theatre in the Haymarket. To-morrow being
     Thursday, the 24th day of February, will be presented a tragedy
     called 'The Orphan; or, the Unhappy Marriage,' written by the late
     Mr. Otway, with a new prologue to be spoken by Mr. Roger, who plays
     the part of Chamont. The part of Acasto by Mr. Huddy; Monimia, Mrs.
     Haughton; the page, Miss Tollet; and the part of Serina by a
     gentlewoman who never appear'd on any stage before. With singing in
     Italian and English by Mrs. Fitzgerald. And the original trumpet
     song of sound fame, as set to musick by Mr. Henry Purcel, to be
     performed by Mr. Amesbury."


Lavinia read this over twice and thrilled with delight. She ran with the
paper to Mrs. Egleton.

"Mercy on me, child!" cried the actress. "So you're a gentlewoman, are
you?"

"The paper says I am, so I suppose it's true," said Lavinia, casting
down her eyes demurely.

"If you are, it'll be a wonder. Not many women players are, I may tell
you for your satisfaction. Who was your father?"

"I don't know. I can't remember him."

"Well, you're in the fashion there. Few of us are better off than you.
But what matters father or mother? You're in the world, and after all
that's as much as you need trouble about. As for your mother--but I
won't bother you about _her_. A mother's not much good to her daughter.
She mostly looks to make money out of her by a rich marriage, not that
she's over particular about the marriage so long as there's plenty of
coin."

Lavinia did not contradict Mrs. Egleton's cynical views. From her own
experience she knew it was very often true.

The 24th was a fortnight ahead--plenty of time for the play to be in
readiness. Huddy had no fear about the performance. What concerned him
more nearly was his "benefit" money. He busied himself in canvassing his
patrons and the disposal of tickets.

The night came. Lavinia was wrought to a high pitch of excitement, but
her excitement was pleasurable. The scenery, albeit it would be scoffed
at nowadays, was to her magnificent. The costumes were gorgeous. It was
nothing that they smelt musty from having laid long in the theatre
wardrobe. The incongruity of many of the garments gave her no pang of
uneasiness. "The Orphan" was of no particular period. Dresses which had
done duty in Shakespearean tragedies, in classical plays of the Cato
type, in the comedies of the Restoration dramatists, were equally
admissible. The circumscribed space afforded the players by the
intrusion on the stage of the seats for the "quality" did not embarrass
her. The combined odours of oranges and candle snuff had their charm.

The house was full, but in the dim and smoky candlelight the faces of
the audience were little better than rows of shadowy masks. The pit
occupied the entire floor of the house right up to the orchestra. Here
the critics were to be found. The pit could make or mar the destiny of
plays, and the reputation of players. Dozens of regular playgoers knew
the traditions of the theatre better than many actors and actresses.
They were sticklers for the preservation of the stage "business" to
which they had been accustomed. They knew certain lines of their
favourite plays by heart, and how those lines ought to be delivered.

The curtain rose. Acasto, Monimia, Chamont mouthed their various parts,
and did exactly what was expected from them. Curiosity was excited only
when Serina, the daughter of Acasto, in love with Chamont, made her
appearance. Lavinia's winsome face, her eyes half tender, half alluring,
her pretty mouth with not an atom of ill nature in its curves, her
sympathetic voice, at once attracted the audience. It was a pity,
everyone felt, she had so little to say and do. Her few lines expressed
but one sentiment--her love for Chamont.

Lavinia played the part as if she felt it, which was indeed the fact,
for she was thinking of Lancelot Vane all the time. When she came to her
final words in the fifth act--


     "If any of my family have done thee injury,
     I'll be revenged and love thee better for it"


the house thundered its applause, so naturally and with such genuine
pathos were they delivered.

The curtain fell. The gallants who had seats on the stage crowded round
the "young gentlewoman" and showered compliments. A few privileged
people from the front of the house who found their way behind were
equally enthusiastic. Even Mrs. Haughton--the Monimia of the
play--deigned to smile approvingly.

"What did I tell thee, Polly?" she heard a pleasant if somewhat husky
voice whisper in her ear.

She knew the tones and turned quickly. John Gay's kindly eyes were
beaming upon her. He had come with Jemmy Spiller, and with a stout man
from whose broad red face a look of drollery was rarely absent. This was
Hippisley, a comedian with a natural humour which was wont to set an
audience in a roar.

Lavinia blushed with pleasure and cast a grateful look at Spiller, whose
hints had proved so valuable.

"Was I not right, Spiller?" went on Gay. "You've read my opera, what
there is of it that's finished. Won't Polly Peachum fit her like a
glove?"

"Aye, if she can sing as prettily as she acted to-night," said Spiller,
with a quizzical glance at the girl.

"Sing? My lad, she has the voice of a nightingale. Pepusch agrees with
me. I'll swear there's no singing woman outside the King's Theatre--or
inside, for the matter of that--who can hold a candle by the side of
her. Have you forgotten the pretty baggage who so charmed us at the
Maiden Head?"

"Not I, faith. I was but jesting. And so you've fixed upon her. But I
hear that Mr. Rich has set his face against so many songs. He won't take
your Polly merely because she can sing."

"Mr. Rich is a fool--in some things," rejoined Gay hastily. "He can
dance, I grant you, and posture as no other man can, and he thinks he
can act! I heard him once at a party of friends. My good Spiller, if his
vanity ever prompted him to air his voice on the stage, the people would
think he was mocking them, and one half would laugh and the other half
boo and hiss."

"I know--I know. Still, he holds command, and he likes his own way, no
man better."

"No doubt, but whatever a man wills he has to give up when a woman says
yea or nay. My good duchess means to have a word with him over the
songs."

"If that's so John Rich had better capitulate at once. He's as good as
beaten."

Lavinia could only catch a word of this talk here and there. She was
being pestered by half a dozen sparkish admirers who were somewhat taken
aback when they discovered that the "gentlewoman who had never appear'd
on any stage before" could more than hold her own in repartee and give
the fops of fashion as good as or better than they gave. How could they
tell that the sprightly young budding actress had graduated in the wit
and slang of the streets?

But she was pestered and peeved all the same, for she dearly wanted to
talk to Gay and Spiller. At last the modish gadflies got tired of having
their smart talk turned against them, and one by one fell off,
especially as Huddy, whose blunt speech was not much to their taste,
came up and intruded without apology into their vapid banter.

"The gal's done well, Spiller," said Huddy, "and I'm obleeged to ye. Now
I want to get on the road and waste no time about it. I ought to be at
Woolwich afore a fortnight's over, then Dartford, Gravesend, Rochester,
Maidstone, and so away on to Dover. What d'ye say, miss? I can give ye a
good engagement--no fixed salary in course--sharing out, that's the rule
with travelling companies--Mr. Spiller knows what I'm a'telling you is
right."

Lavinia hardly knew what to say to this, and she turned to Spiller for
advice. Huddy saw the look of doubt on her face, and went on with his
argument.

"It's this way, miss. I don't say as you didn't play to-night to my
satisfaction--thanks to my rehearsing of you--but you've got a lot to
learn, and, by God, you won't learn it better anywhere in the world than
with me. Ask Mr. Spiller--ask Mr. Hippisley. They know what's what, and
they'll tell you the same."

Spiller nodded.

"You've made a good beginning, but the more practice you have the
better. Isn't that so, Mr. Gay? Mr. Gay has great hopes of you, my dear
and--but you'd better hear what he has to say."

"Oh, I should dearly love to," murmured Lavinia.

They were now in the green room. Mrs. Fitzgerald was on the stage
singing "in English and French," and her shrill tones penetrated the
thin walls greatly to Gay's discomfort. The lady's voice was not
particularly sweet.

"Let us walk apart, Polly," said he. "We shan't hear that noise so
keenly."

He took her arm and placed it beneath his.

"Spiller's right, my dear. I have great hopes of you, but your chance
won't come for months. The time won't be lost if you work hard at
everything Huddy puts in your way. You'll have plenty of variety, but
you won't earn much money. The sharing out system puts the lion's
portion into the manager's pocket. But that can't be helped. Still, if
you want money--the duchess----"

"Oh, Mr. Gay," broke in Lavinia anxiously, "I've been sorely worried
thinking of her grace. Have you told her?--I mean about me running away
from school and--and----"

Gay laughed and playfully pinched her cheek.

"The love story, eh? Yes, I told the duchess, and she was vastly
entertained. She's a woman of infinite spirit and she likes other women
to have spirit too. She's not without romance--and I wouldn't give a
thank-you for her if she were. If you'd run off out of restlessness or a
mere whim or fit of temper, I doubt if she'd troubled about you further;
but love--that was another thing altogether. Oh, and your courage in
escaping from that dissolute rascal--that captured her. My dear,
Queensberry's Duchess is your friend. She's as desirous as I am that you
should be Polly Peachum in my 'Beggar's Opera,' and when I tell her
about to-night she'll be overjoyed. You need not fear about the future
save that it depends upon yourself. But Polly, what of the young
playwright, Lancelot Vane?"

"I don't want to hear anything about him!"

"What! Have you and he tiffed? Well, 'tis a way that true love works.
But let me tell you I've handed his play to Mr. Cibber, though much I
doubt its good fortune. Honestly, my child, though some of the lines are
good, others are sad stuff."

"I don't wish Mr. Vane any ill will, but it is no affair of mine whether
his play be good or bad."

"Mercy on me! But you told me he wanted to write in a part for you."

"If he does I won't play it. Mr. Vane is nothing to me."

"Oh, so _that_ love's flown away, has it? Was there anybody in this
world or any other so full of vagaries and vapours as Master Cupid?"

Lavinia was in a tumult of doubt and contrary inclinations. She hated to
discuss Lancelot Vane! She wanted to talk about him! She was suffering
from the most puzzling of emotions--the mingled pain and pleasure of
self-torture.

Gay neither gratified nor disappointed her. He simply remarked that it
was well she now had nothing to distract her mind and that she would be
able to devote herself entirely to her new life, and after counselling
her not to argue about terms with Huddy, he led her back to the manager,
and it was settled that she should join his travelling company.

Lavinia was overwrought, and that night slept but little. It was hard to
say whether the thoughts of her future on the stage, her dreams of
distinction with Gay's opera, or her wounded love and pride occupied the
foremost place in her mind. She resolved over and over again that she
would forget Lancelot Vane. She meant to steel herself against every
kind of tender recollection. She was certain she hated him and dropped
off to sleep thinking of the one kiss they had exchanged.

The next morning she was fairly tranquil. She had not, it is true,
dismissed Vane entirely from her thoughts, but she had arrived at the
conclusion that as it was all over between them it really was of no
consequence whether he had jilted her for Sally Salisbury. That he
should bestow even a look on so common a creature was a proof of his
vulgar tastes. Oh, he was quite welcome to Sally if his fancy roamed in
so low a direction. She felt she was able to regard the whole business
with perfect equanimity.

Her landlady that day bought a copy of the _Daily Post_ and she sent it
upstairs to Lavinia. Newspaper notices of theatrical performances were
rarities in those days. Lavinia did not expect to see any reference to
Mr. Huddy's benefit, and her expectations were realised. What she _did_
see sent the blood rushing to her face and her hands fumbled so that she
could hardly hold the paper. Then she went deadly pale, she tore the
paper in half and--a rare thing for Lavinia to do--she burst into tears.


CHAPTER XXI

"IF WE FIGHT.... WHAT SAY YOU TO LAVINIA FENTON?"


The big room of the "Angel and Sun" hard by Cripples Gate was the scene
of loud talk, louder laughter and the clank of pewter mugs on the solid
oaken table. The fat landlord, divested of his wig, which he only wore
on high days and holidays, was rubbing his shiny pate with satisfaction.
The Grub Street writers were his best customers, and when they had money
in their pockets they were uneasy until it was gone.

The room was low pitched; its big chimney beams projected so much that
it behoved a tall man to be careful of his movements; it was full of
dark shadows thrown by the two candles in iron sconces on the walls; a
high settle was on either side of the fire in front of which stood the
bow-legged host, his eyes beaming on the rapidly emptying bottles.

A slight sound, a movement, caused the landlord to glance towards the
door. A stranger had entered. He was not of the Grub Street fraternity.
He had too much swagger. His clothes were too fine, despite their
tawdriness, his sword hilt too much in evidence. What could be seen of
his dark face, the upper half of which his slouched hat concealed, was
rather that of a fighter than of a writer. The landlord summed up the
signs of a swashbuckler and approached him deferentially.

"Good evenin', sir. What's your pleasure?"

The stranger cast a rapid glance over the revellers sitting round the
long, narrow table before he replied.

"Half a pint of gin, landlord," said he, in the deep, husky voice of
Captain Jeremy Rofflash, and he strode towards the chimney corner of one
of the settles, whence he could see the noisy party of drinkers and not
be seen himself very well.

The landlord brought the gin in a pewter pot and set it down on a ledge
fixed to the chimney jamb.

"See here, landlord," growled Rofflash, "d'ye know Mr. Jarvis?"

"Sure, sir; 'tis he yonder with the lantern-jawed phizog."

"Aye. Watch your chance when he's not talking to the rest and bid him
look where I'm sitting. There's a shilling ready for you if you don't
blunder."

The landlord nodded and waddled towards the man he had pointed out.

Jeremy Rofflash, it may be remarked, was a born spy and informer. His
blood was tainted with treachery. Ten years before he had been employed
by the Whig Government of George of Hanover to ferret out
evidence--which not infrequently meant manufacturing it--against the
Jacobites. Posing as a Jacobite, Rofflash wormed himself into the
secrets of the conspirators, and he figured as an important witness
against the rebel lords Derwentwater, Nithsdale, Carnwath and Wintoun.

It was nothing for him to serve two masters and to play false to both,
according as it best suited his own pocket. Sally Salisbury and
Archibald Dorrimore were working in two different directions, and the
ingenious Jeremy accommodated both. His scheming in Sally's interest had
turned out to his and to her satisfaction, but not so that on behalf of
Dorrimore. The captain had not reckoned upon Lavinia taking flight
before he and his employer arrived on the scene.

The plot of which she was the objective was common enough in those days
of free and easy lovemaking. Merely an abduction. Rofflash had an
intimate knowledge of Whitefriars, not then, perhaps, so lawless a place
as in the times of the Stuarts, but sufficiently lawless for his
purpose. Its ancient privileges which made it a sanctuary for all that
was vile and criminal had not been entirely swept away. Rofflash knew of
more than one infamous den to which Lavinia could be conveyed, and
nobody be the wiser.

The abduction plot had failed--for the present--and Rofflash, to pacify
Dorrimore, went on another tack. In this he was personally interested.
He saw his way to make use of Dorrimore to punish Vane for the
humiliation Vane had cast upon him when they encountered each other on
London Bridge. This humiliation was a double one. Vane had not merely
knocked him down, but had rescued Lavinia under his very nose.

The insult could only be washed out in blood, and the captain had been
nursing his wrath ever since. But he was as great a coward as he was a
braggart, and a fair fight was not to his taste. He was more at home in
a stealthy approach under the cover of night, and a swift plunge of his
sword before the enemy could turn and defend himself.

With Dorrimore it was different. To do him justice, fop as he was, he
did not want for courage, and, moreover, he was a good swordsman. So
when Rofflash made out that he could bring Vane to Spring Gardens,
where Dorrimore could easily find an excuse for provoking his rival to a
duel, the Templar eagerly approved the idea.

It was to carry out this plan practically that Rofflash, after quitting
his patron in St. James's Park, made his way to Moorfields. Though he
knew that Sally had extracted a promise from Vane to meet her in Spring
Gardens, he was by no means certain that Vane would keep his word. But
Rofflash was never without resources, and he thought he could devise a
plan to bring the meeting about. His scheme proved easier to execute
than he expected. Vane unconsciously played into his hands.

After his bitter disappointment through not meeting Lavinia at
Rosamond's Pond, Vane walked back to his Grub Street lodgings plunged in
fits of melancholy, alternated with moralisings on the faithlessness of
women. He did not believe Lavinia had kept the appointment. As for Sally
Salisbury, well, it was unfortunate that he should run across her at a
wrong moment, but he never imagined that the meeting with her was one of
design and not of accident.

Vane had the poetic temperament. He was human and emotional and--he was
weak. Had he lived two centuries later he might have fancied, and may be
with truth, that he suffered from neurasthenia. In the full-blooded days
of the early Georges the complaint was "vapours," otherwise liver, but
no one troubled about nerves. The ghastly heads of Jacobite rebels stuck
on Temple Bar were looked upon with indifference by the passers-by. The
crowds which thronged to Tyburn to witness the half hangings and the
hideous disembowelling which followed, while the poor wretches, found
guilty of treason, were yet alive, had pretty much the sensation with
which a gathering nowadays sees a dangerous acrobatic performance.

Vane had none of this brutish callousness. He was more susceptible to
sex influences. Despite his worship of Lavinia, whom he elevated into a
sort of divinity, and who satisfied the more refined part of his nature
and his love of romance, he was not insensible to the animal charms of
Sally Salisbury. The cunning jade was familiar with all the arts of her
profession. She knew how to kiss, and the kiss she bestowed upon him in
the park haunted him just as did the kiss he had received whether he
would or not on the night when she sheltered him in her house.

Thus it came about that the despondent young man was torn between
varying emotions, and by the time he was within hail of Grub Street he
was without will of his own and at the mercy of any who chose to
exercise influence over him.

Chance led him to encounter a party of boon companions whose company he
had vowed to relinquish. One of these was in funds, having abandoned
political pamphleteering for the writing of biographies of notorious
personages, both men and women--the latter preferably--in which truth
and fiction were audaciously blended, and the whole dashed with
scandalous anecdotes which found for such stuff a ready sale.

Jarvis and his friends having had their fill of liquor at one tavern,
were proceeding to another when they met Lancelot Vane, and they bore
him away without much protest. It was by no means the first time that
Vane had drowned his sorrows in drink.

Meanwhile Rofflash was on the prowl. He was not unacquainted with some
of the Grub Street scribblers. One man he had employed three or four
years before, when Jacobitism was rampant, in running to earth the
writers of seditious pamphlets and broad sheets. The man was Tom Jarvis.
Rofflash knew Tom's favourite haunts, and after looking in at various
taverns, lighted upon him at the "Angel and Sun." He also lighted upon
Vane. Vane he could see was well on the way towards forgetfulness, but
Captain Jeremy wasn't one to run any risks, so he held aloof from the
party, and waited while the landlord went about his errand.

Presently Jarvis looked in the direction of the fireplace, and Rofflash
beckoned him and laid his fingers on his lip in token of silence. Jarvis
quietly slipped away and joined Rofflash.

"Devil take it, my gallant captain!" growled Jarvis, "but you look in
fine feather. Hang me if you haven't tumbled on your feet, and that's
more than Tom Jarvis can say. Since the Jacks have swallowed King George
and his Hanoverian progeny things have been precious dull for the likes
o' me."

"Aye, though it mayn't be for long. Meanwhile, I can put you in the way
of a guinea. Are you friendly with that young fool, Lancelot Vane?"

"Friendly? Why, to be sure. He's always good for a bottle if he chance
to have the wherewithal about him. And he's the best company in the
world when that comes about. A couple o' glasses knocks him over, and
you can finish the rest of the bottle at your ease."

"Gad! He's one of your feather-brained, lily-livered fellows, is he? So
much the better for my purpose. Look you here, Tom; bring Vane to-morrow
evening to Spring Gardens, and there's a guinea ready for you."

Jarvis looked down his long nose and frowned.

"Not so easy as you think, captain. I know Vane. To-morrow he'll be
chock full of repentance. He'll be calling himself all the fools he can
lay his tongue to. How am I to get him to Spring Gardens in that mood?"

"'Tis as easy as lying, Tom. When a man's down as Peter Grievous, he's
ready to get up if he have but a couple of hairs of the dog that bit
him."

"I grant you that, bully captain. But Vane's pocket's as empty as mine.
Where's the coin to come from?"

"You're a damned liar and an ingrained rogue by nature, Tom Jarvis, but
I'll have to trust you for once. Here's half a guinea. It should more
than pay for the wine and the wherry to Spring Gardens. Keep faith with
me, you rascal, or I'll half wring your head from your shoulders and
give you a free taste of what's bound to come to you some day--the rope
at Tyburn."

Jarvis grinned in sickly fashion and swore by all that was unholy to
carry out his orders strictly. Rofflash then strode away.

How Jarvis contrived to lure Vane to Spring Gardens is not of much
consequence. The fellow had a soft, slimy tongue and an oily manner.
Moreover, Rofflash's shrewd guess at Vane's absence of will power after
a drinking bout was verified to the letter.

The passage up the river from St. Paul's Stairs was pleasant enough. The
wherry made its way through a crowd of boats bound for the Gardens,
though the season had hardly begun. Not a few of the craft had for their
passengers fashionable ladies masked and unmasked, with their cavaliers
more or less noisy with wine. Numberless and not particularly refined
were the jests exchanged between the occupants of the various boats.
Sometimes the watermen struck in and masters of slang and coarse wit as
they were, and possessed of infinite impudence, the journey was marked
by plenty of liveliness.

Well did Spring Gardens--afterwards known as Vauxhall, or Fauxhall,
years later--deserve the patronage bestowed upon them. Delightful
groves, cosy little arbours, lawns like velvet, rippling fountains were
among its attractions, music albeit it was confined to the limited
instruments of the day--singing came about afterwards--aided the
enchantment.

A dose of hot brandy and water before starting had renewed Vane's
drooping spirits and had dissipated his headache and nausea. A glass of
punch prescribed by Jarvis when inside the Gardens sent him into a mood
of recklessness which made him ready for any adventure amorous or
otherwise. He looked upon Lavinia as lost to him. He would like to kill
his remembrance of her. What better way than by thoughts of some other
woman? His brain had become so bemused by his potations of the previous
night that he had at first only vague recollections of Sally Salisbury
and how he had engaged to meet her. But now that he was in the Gardens
association of ideas brought her handsome, enticing face to his mind.
She would do as well as another to entertain him for the moment, and his
eyes roved restlessly towards every woman he passed.

The orchestra was playing a dance tune, and Vane eagerly scanned the
dancers, but saw no woman resembling Sally Salisbury. Meanwhile Jarvis
had left him with a parting drink, which by no means helped to clear his
muddled brain. Then suddenly Sally stood before him, unmasked and
looking more fascinating than ever.

"You wicked man," said she with reproachful eyes, the dark silky lashes
drooping momentarily on her painted cheeks. "I've been searching for you
everywhere. But my heart told me you would come, and my heart rarely
deceives me."

Sally spoke in a tone of sincerity, and maybe for once she was sincere.
Vane did not trouble one way or the other. He was in that condition of
nervous excitement to be strongly affected by her sensuous beauty. He
was stammering something in reply when a man in a puce satin coat and a
flowered brocaded waistcoat thrust himself rudely between them.

"I fear, sir, you don't know all the transcendent virtues of this
_lady_. Permit me to enlighten you."

He spoke in an insolent tone, and Sally turned upon him in fury and bade
him begone.

"Mind your own business, Mr. Dorrimore, and don't thrust your nose into
what doesn't concern you," she cried, her eyes blazing with wrath.

"Oh, I've no quarrel with you, madam. I only wish to warn your poor
dupe----"

He wasn't able to finish the sentence. Vane had struck him a violent
blow in the face.

Vane's sudden attack fairly took Dorrimore by surprise. He stared
blankly at Vane, and then apparently seized by some ludicrous idea, he
burst into a sarcastic laugh.

"Faith, sir--you must excuse me--you really must. Ha--ha--ha! The idea
of your championing this wanton jade! It's too good a joke--'pon honour,
it is--but since you will have it so--why----"

His hand went to his side, and the next moment his sword flashed in the
crimson light of the coloured lamps. Just then Jarvis and another man
interposed, and the latter caught Dorrimore's sword arm.

She would deceive herself no longer. She was base--base. He stood close,
and in his presence she was glad-- fiercely, deliciously, desperately.

She, betrayed in all her vows, was glad. The current ran smoothly. If only,
beyond the next ledge, might lie annihilation!

The current ran with an oily smoothness. They were nearing the
Roches Fendues. Dominique's boat led.

A clear voice began to sing, high and loud, in a ringing
tenor:

"Malbrouck s'en va-t'en guerre:
Mironton, mironton, mirontaine . . ."

At the first note John a Cleeve, glancing swiftly at Bateese, saw
his body stiffen suddenly with his hand on the tiller; saw his eyes
travel forward, seeking his brother's; saw his face whiten.

Dominique stood erect, gazing back, challenging. Beyond him John caught
a glimpse of Father Launoy looking up from his breviary; and the
priest's face, too, was white and fixed.

Voices in the boats behind began to curse loudly; for "Malbrouck" was no
popular air with the English.

But Bateese took up the chant:

"Malbrouck s'en va-t'en guerre-- Ne sais quand reviendra!"
They were swinging past Bout de l'lsle.

Already the keel under foot was gathering way. From Bateese, who stood
with eyes stiffened now and inscrutable, John looked down upon
Diane.

She lifted her face with a wan smile, but she, too, was listening
to the challenge flung back from the leading boat.

"Il reviendra-z a Paques . . ."
He flung one glance over his shoulder, and saw the channel dividing
ahead.

Dominique was leaning over, pressing down the helm to starboard.
Over Dominique's arm Father Launoy stared rigidly.

Father Joly, as if aware of something amiss, had cast out both hands
and was grasping the gunwale.

The boat, sucked into the roar of the rapids, shot down the left channel--the
channel of death.

"Il reviendra-z a Paques, Ou--a la Trinite!"
The voice was lost in the roar of the falls, now drumming loud in
John's ears.

He knew nothing of these rapids; but two channels lay ahead and the
choice between them. He leapt across M. Etienne, and hurling Bateese
aside, seized the tiller and thrust it hard over, heading for the
right.

Peering back through the spray as he bent he saw the helmsmen astern
staring--hesitating. They had but a second or two in which to choose.
He shouted and shouted again--in English. But the tumbling waters roared
high above his shouts.

He reached out and gripping Bateese by the collar, forced the tiller
into his hand. Useless now to look back to try to discover how many
boats were following!

Bateese, with a sob, crept back to the tiller and steered.

Not until the foot of the falls was reached did John know that the
herd had followed him. But forty-six boats had followed Dominique's
fatal lead: and of their crews ninety red-coated corpses tossed
with Dominique's and the two priests' and spun in the eddies beneath
the _Grand Bouilli_.

At dawn next morning the sentries in Montreal caught sight of them
drifting down past the walls, and carried the news.

So New France learnt that its hour was near.

CHAPTER XXVI.

DICK'S JUDGMENT.

Two days later Amherst landed his troops at La Chine, marched them
unopposed to Montreal, and encamped before the city on its western
side. Within the walls M. de Vaudreuil called a council of war.

Resistance was madness.

From east, south, west, the French commanders--Bourlamaque,
Bougainville, Roquemaure, Dumas, La Corne-- had all fallen back,
deserted by their militias.

The provincial army had melted down to two hundred men; the troops
of the line numbered scarce above two thousand.

The city, crowded with non-combatant refugees, held a bare fortnight's
provisions. Its walls, built for defence against Indians, could not stand
against the guns which Amherst was already dragging up from the
river; its streets of wooden houses awaited only the first shell
to set them ablaze.

On the eastern side Murray was moving closer, to encamp for the
siege.

To the south the tents of Haviland's army dotted the river shore. Seventeen
thousand British and British-Colonials ringed about all that
remained of New France, ready to end her by stroke of sword if
Vaudreuil would not by stroke of pen.

Next morning Bougainville sought Amherst's tent and presented a bulky
paper containing fifty-five articles of capitulation.

Amherst read them through, and came to the demand that the troops should
march out with arms, cannon, flags, and all the honours of war. "Inform
the Governor," he answered, "that the whole garrison of Montreal,
and all other French troops in Canada, must lay down their arms,
and undertake not to serve again in this war."

Bougainville bore his message, and returned in a little while to remonstrate;
but in vain.

Then Levis tried his hand, sending his quartermaster-general to plead
against terms so humiliating--"terms," he wrote, "to which it will
not be possible for us to subscribe."

Amherst replied curtly that the terms were harsh, and he had made them
so intentionally; they marked his sense of the conduct of the
French throughout the war in exciting their Indian allies to atrocity
and murder.

So Fort William Henry was avenged at length, in the humiliation of
gallant men; and human vengeance proved itself, perhaps, neither more nor
less clumsy than usual.

Vaudreuil tried to exact that the English should, on their side,
pack off their Indians.

He represented that the townsfolk of Montreal stood in terror of being
massacred. Again Amherst refused.
"No Frenchman," said he, "surrendering under treaty has ever suffered
outrage from the Indians of our army." This was on the 7th of
September.

Early on the 8th Vaudreuil yielded and signed the capitulation.
Levis, in the name of the army, protested bitterly. "If the Marquis de
Vaudreuil, through political motives, believes himself obliged to
surrender the colony at once, we beg his leave to withdraw with the
troops of the line to Isle Sainte-Helene, to maintain there, on our
own behalf, the honour of the King's arms."

To this, of course, the Governor could not listen. Before the hour of
surrender the French regiments burnt their flags.

On the southern shore of the St. Lawrence, in the deepest recess of a small
curving bay, the afternoon sun fell through a screen of bulrushes upon a
birch canoe and a naked man seated in the shallows beside it. In one hand
he held out, level with his head, a lock of hair, dark and long and
matted, while the other sheared at it with a razor. The razor flashed
as he turned it this way and that against the sun. On his shoulders and
raised upper arm a few water-drops glistened, for he had been
swimming.

The severed locks fell into the stream that rippled beside him through
the bulrush stems. Some found a channel at once and were swept out of
sight, others were caught against the stems and trailed out upon the
current like queer water-flags. He laid the razor back in the
canoe and, rising cautiously, looked about for a patch of clear, untroubled
water to serve him for a mirror; but small eddies and cross-currents
dimpled the surface everywhere, and his search was not a success.

Next he fetched forth from the canoe an earthenware pan with lye
and charcoal, mixed a paste, and began to lather his head briskly.

Twice he paused in his lathering. Before his shelter rolled the great
river, almost two miles broad; and clear across that distance, from
Montreal, came the sound of drums beating, bells ringing, men
shouting and cheering.

In the Place d'Armes, over yonder, Amherst was parading his troops
to receive the formal surrender of the Marquis de Vaudreuil. Murray and
Haviland were there, leading their brigades, with Gage and Fraser
and Burton; Carleton and Haldfmand and Howe--Howe of the Heights
of Abraham, brother of him who fell in the woods under Ticonderoga;
the great Johnson of the Mohawk Valley, whom the Iroquois obeyed;
Rogers of the backwoods and his brothers, bravest of the brave;
Schuyler and Lyman: and over against them, drinking the bitterest
cup of their lives, Levis and Bourlamaque and Bougainville, Dumas,
Pouchot, and de la Corne--victors and vanquished, all the surviving
heroes of the five years' struggle face to face in the city square.

_Hi motus animorum atque haec certamina tanta_--the half of North America
was changing hands at this moment, and how a bare two miles' distance
diminished it all! What child's play it made of the rattling drums!
From his shelter John a Cleeve could see almost the whole of the city's
river front--all of it, indeed, but a furlong or two at its western
end; and the clean atmosphere showed up even the loopholes pierced
in the outer walls of the great Seminary.

Above the old-fashioned square bastions of the citadel a white flag
floated; and that this flag bore a red cross instead of the golden
lilies it had borne yesterday was the one and only sign, not easily
discerned, of a reversal in the fates of two nations.

The steeples and turrets of Montreal, the old windmill, the belfry and
high-pitched roof of Notre Dame de Bonsecours, the massed buildings of
the Seminary and the Hotel Dieu, the spire of the Jesuits, rose
against the green shaggy slopes of the mountain, and over the
mountain the sky paled tranquilly toward evening.

Sky, mountain, forests, mirrored belfry and broad rolling river--a
permanent peace seemed to rest on them all.

Half a mile down-stream, where Haviland's camp began, the men of the
nearest picket were playing chuck-farthing. Duty deprived them of the
spectacle in the Place d'Armes, and thus, as soldiers, they solaced
themselves. Through the bulrush stems John heard their voices and
laughter.

A canoe came drifting down the river, across the opening of the
little creek.

A man sat in it with his paddle laid across his knees; and as the
stream bore him past, his eyes scanned the water inshore.

John recognised Bateese at once; but Bateese, after a glance, went by
unheeding. It was no living man he sought.

John finished his lathering at leisure, waded out beyond the rushes
and cast himself forward into deep water.

He swam a few strokes, ducked his head, dived, and swam on again; turned
on his back and floated, staring up into the sky; breasted the
strong current and swam against it, fighting it in sheer lightness
of heart.

Boyhood came back to him with his cleansing, and a boyish memory--of an
hour between sunset and moonrise; of a Devonshire lane, where the
harvest wagons had left wisps of hay dangling from the honeysuckles; of
a triangular patch of turf at the end of the lane, and a whitewashed
Meeting-House with windows open, and through the windows a hymn
pouring forth upon the Sabbath twilight--
"Time, like an ever-rolling stream, Bears all his sons away . . ."

An ever-rolling stream! It would bear him down, and the generals yonder,
victors and vanquished, drums and trumpets, hopes and triumphs and
despair--overwhelming, making equal the greater with the less. But
meanwhile, how good to be alive and a man, to swim and breast it! So
this river, if he fought it, would out-tire him, sweep him away
and roll on unheeding, majestic, careless of life and of time.

But for this moment he commanded it.

     Let his new life bring what it might, this hour the river should
     be his servant, should prepare and wash him clean, body and
     soul. He lifted his head, shaking the water from his eyes, and the
     very volume of the lustral flood contented him. He felt the
     strong current pressing against his arms, and longed to embrace
     it all. And again, tickled by the absurdity of his fancies, he lay
on his back and laughed up at the sky.

He swam to shore, flung himself down, and panted. Across the river, by
the landing-stage beneath the citadel, a band was playing down
Haviland's brigade to its boats; and one of the boats was bringing
a man whom John had great need to meet.

When the sun had dried and warmed him, he dressed at leisure, putting
on a suit complete, with striped shirt, socks, and cowhide boots
purchased from a waterside trader across the river and paid for
with the last of his moneys earned in the wilderness.

The boots, though a world too wide, cramped him painfully; and he
walked up and down the bank for a minute or two, to get accustomed
to them, before strolling down to meet the challenge of the pickets.

They were men of the 17th, and John inquired for their adjutant.
They pointed to the returning boats. The corporal in charge of
the picket, taking note of his clothes, asked if he belonged to Loring's
bateau-men, and John answered that he had come down with them through
the falls.

"A nice mess you made of it up yonder," was the corporal's comment.
"Two days we were on fatigue duty picking up the bodies you sent
down to us, and burying them.

Only just now a fellow came along in a canoe--a half-witted kind of
Canadian. Said he was searching for his brother."
"Yes," said John, "I saw him go by. I know the man."
"Hell of a lot of brother he's likely to find. We've tidied up
the whole length of the camp front.

But there's corpses yet, a mile or two below, they say. I sent him down
to take his pick."
He put a question or two about the catastrophe. "Scandalous sort of
bungle," he pronounced it, being alike ignorant of the strength of the
rapids, and fain, as an honest soldier of Haviland's army, to take
a discrediting view of anything done by Amherst's. He waxed very scornful
indeed.

"Now _we_ was allowing you didn't find the stream fast enough, by
the way you kept us cooling our heels here."

Perceiving that John was indisposed to quarrel, he went wearily back to
his chuck-farthing.

John sat down and waited, scanning the boats as they drew to shore.
Dick, whom he had left an ensign, was now adjutant of the 17th.
This meant, of course, that he had done creditably and made himself
felt.

It meant certain promotion, too; Dick being the very man, as adjutant, to
lick a regiment into shape. John could not help pondering a little, by
contrast, on his own career, but without any tinge of jealousy or envy.
Dick owed nothing to luck; would honestly earn or justify any
favour that Fortune might grant.

The young adjutant, stepping ashore, swung round on his heel to call an
order to the crowding boats. His voice, albeit John thrilled to
the sound of it, was not the voice he remembered. It had hardened somehow.
And his face, when John caught sight of it in profile, was not the face
of a man on the sunny side of favour.

It was manlier, more resolute perhaps than of old, but it had put on
reserve and showed even some discontent in the set of the chin--a
handsome face yet, and youthful, and full of eager strength; but
with a shadow on it (thought John) that it had not worn in the days
when Dick Montgomery took his young ease in Sion and criticised men
and generals.

He was handling the disembarkation well. Clearly, too, his men
respected and liked him.

But (thought John again) who could help loving him? John had not bargained
for the rush of tenderness that shook him as he stood there unperceived,
and left him trembling.
For a moment he longed only to escape; and then, mastered by an impulse,
scarce knowing what he did, stepped forward and touched his cousin's
arm.

"Dick!" he said softly.

Montgomery turned, cast a sharp glance at him, and fell back staring.

"_You!_" John saw the lips form the word, but no sound came.
He himself was watching Dick's eyes.

Yes, as incredulity passed, joy kindled in them, and the old affection.
For once in his life Richard Montgomery fairly broke down.

"Jack!"--he stretched out both hands. "We heard--You were not among
the prisoners--" His voice stammered to a halt: his eyes brimmed.

"Come, and hear all about it. Oh, Dick, Dick, 'tis good to see your
face again!"
They linked arms, and Dick suffered John to lead him back to the canoe
among the rushes.

"My mother . . . ?" asked John, halting there by the brink.

"You haven't heard?" Dick turned his face and stared away across the
river.

"I have heard nothing. . . . Is she dead?"
Dick bent his head gravely. "A year since. . . .

Your brother Philip wrote the news to me. It was sudden: just a failure
of the heart, he said. She had known of the danger for years, but
concealed it."
John seated himself on the bank, and gazed out over the river for
a minute or so in silence. "She believed me dead, of course?" he
began, but did not ask how the blow had affected her. Likely
enough Dick would not know. "Is there any more bad news?" he asked
at length.

"None. Your brother is well, and there's another child born.
The a Cleeves are not coming to an end just yet.

No more questions, Jack, until you've told me all about yourself!"
He settled down to listen, and John, propping himself on an elbow,
began his tale.

Twice or thrice during the narrative Dick furrowed his brows in perplexity.
When, however, John came to tell of his second year's sojourn with the
Ojibways, he sat up with a jerk and stared at his cousin in a blank
dismay.

"But, good Lord! You said just now that this fellow--this Menehwehna--had
promised to help you back to the army, as soon as Spring came.

Did he break his word, then?"
"No! he would have kept his word. But I didn't want to return."
"You didn't--want--to return!"

Dick repeated the words slowly, trying to grasp them. "Man alive, were you
clean mad? Don't you see what cards you held? Oh," he groaned, "you're
not going on to tell me that you threw them away--the chance of a
life-time!"

"I don't see," answered John simply.

Dick sprang up and paced the bank with his hands clenched, half lifted.
"God! if such a chance had fallen to _me_!

You had intercepted two dispatches, one of which might have hurried the
French up from Montreal here to save Fort Frontenac.

Wherever you could, you bungled; but you rode on the full tide of
luck. And even when you tumbled in love with this girl--oh, you needn't
deny it!

-- even when you walked straight into the pitfall that ninety-nine
men in a hundred would have seen and avoided--your very folly pulled
you out of the mess!

You escaped, by her grace, having foiled two dispatches and possessed your
self of knowledge that might have saved Amherst from wasting ten minutes
where he wasted two days.

And now you stare at me when I tell you that you held the chance
of a lifetime!

Why, man, you could have asked what promotion you willed!

She would love it. She had seldom had an opportunity of
singing in any of the parts she had played, and singing was what her
soul delighted in.

She made her way to Hampstead. The heath was wild enough in those
days--clumps of woodland, straggling bushes, wide expanses of turf, vast
pits made by the gravel and sand diggers, the slopes scored by water
courses with here and there a foot path--all was picturesque. The ponds
were very much as they are now, save that their boundaries were not
restrained and after heavy rains the water spread at its own free will.

The village itself on the slopes overlooking the heath was cramped, the
houses squeezed together in narrow passages with openings here and there
where glorious views of the Highgate Woods and the country beyond
delighted the eye.

Lavinia inquired for Betty Higgins in the village, but without success.
Indeed, the houses were not such as washerwomen could afford to live in.
Then she went into the quaint tavern known as the Upper Flask and here
she was told that a Mrs. Higgins who did laundry work was to be found in
a cottage not far from Jack Straw's Castle on the Spaniards' road and
thither Lavinia tramped, footsore and tired, for she had walked all the
way from London.

Betty, a stout, sturdy woman was at her clothes lines stretched from
posts on a patch of drying ground in front of her cottage. She opened
wide her round blue eyes as Lavinia approached her.

"Are you Betty Higgins?" asked Lavinia.

"Aye, that's me sure enough; an' who may you be, young woman?"

"I'm Lavinia Fenton, a friend of your Cousin Hannah, who works for my
mother at the coffee house in the Old Bailey."

"So you're the young miss as she told me of! Why, that be months an'
months agone. An' you never comed. It put me about, it did."

"I'm very sorry. I never thought of that. But so many things I didn't
expect prevented me coming."

"Have you seen Hannah? She's been a-grievin' about you, thinkin' as you
might ha' come to harm."

"No, I haven't been near the Old Bailey," said Lavinia hesitatingly.
"Perhaps you'll guess why. I dare say Hannah's told you about me and my
mother."

"Oh, to be sure she has. May be you don't know then that your mother's
got another husband?"

"I'm glad of it. She won't bother any more about me now."

"May be not. But what d'ye want?"

"I'd like to know if you can let me have a lodging. It'll suit me to
live at Hampstead for a while."

"But s'posing as it don't suit me to have you?"

"Then I must go somewhere else. I think Hannah would be glad if I was
with you."

"Aye, but you've been away from her goodness knows how long. What have
you been a-doin' of all that while?"

"Play-acting. I had a part last week in a play at the Lincoln's Inn
Theatre and Mr. Rich has promised me an engagement when the theatre
opens for the winter season."

"Oh," said Mrs. Higgins with a sniff which might have signified pity or
contempt, or both. "I dunno as I hold with play-actin'. Brazen painted
women some o' them actresses is and the words as is put in their mouths
to say--well--there----"

"I know--I know," returned Lavinia hurriedly and with heightened colour.
"But that isn't their fault, and after all, it's not so bad as what one
hears in front--in the gallery----"

"What, the trulls and the trapes and the saucy footmen! It made my ears
tingle when Hannah took me to Drury Lane. I longed to take a stick in my
hand an' lay it about 'em. So you're a play-actin' miss are ye? I'm
sorry for it."

"I can't help that, Mrs. Higgins. One must do something--besides there's
good and bad folk wherever you go."

"Aye, an' ye haven't got to go from here neither. A pack o' bad 'uns,
men and women, come to Hampstead. They swarm like rats at Mother Ruff's,
dancin' an' dicin, an' drinkin', an' wuss. I won't say as you don't see
the quality at the concerts in the Great Room, but the low rabble--well,
thank the Lord they don't come _my_ way."

Then Betty Higgins, who all this time had been eyeing the girl and
apparently taking stock of her, suddenly harked back to the all
important business which had brought Lavinia to her cottage.

"If I let ye a lodging what are ye a-goin' to do till October?"

"You spoke about the concerts at the Great Room just now," said Lavinia
meditatively. "Do they have singing?"

"Singin'? Ah, an' such singin' as I never heard afore. I've never been
inside, it's far too fine fur the likes o' me, but the windows are
sometimes open an' I've listened an' paid nothin' fur it neither."

"I want to sing in that room, Mrs. Higgins. If I had a chance I believe
I could please the fine gentlemen and their ladies and earn some
money."

Betty Higgins stared aghast.

"What are ye a-talkin' about, child? _You_ sing? Where's your silk gown,
your lace, your furbelows to come from?"

"I don't know, but I think something might be contrived."

Lavinia had Mrs. Houghton, who had been the leading lady in "The Orphan"
and in "The Wits," in her mind. Mrs. Houghton was very friendly towards
her and had no end of fine dresses.

"Oh, but singin'. Goodness me, child, you haven't heard 'em in the Great
Room, all tralalas and twists and turns up and down, sometimes soft as a
mouse and sometimes so loud as 'ud a'most wake the dead. I'd like to
hear ye do all that, not mind ye, as I understand what it means, but its
pure grand."

"I'll sing something to you Betty that you _can_ understand. What of 'My
lodging, it is on the Cold Ground.' Would you like to hear that?"

"Wouldn't I! My mother was maid to Mistress Moll Davies, as King Charles
was mad over, though for the matter o' that he was always a runnin'
after the women. Anyway, it was that song and the way Moll sung it as
won his heart. Ah, them days is past an' I'm afeared as I mustn't speak
well of 'em or I'd be called a 'Jack,' clapped into Newgate or sent to
Bridewell and lashed. But give me 'Lodging on the Cold Ground' an' I'll
tell ye what I think. But I warn ye, mother copied Mrs. Davies an' 'll
know how it ought to be sung."

Lavinia laughed to herself. She was quite sure if she could satisfy Mr.
Gay and Dr. Pepusch she could please Betty Higgins.

"Them old songs," went on Betty, warming to her subject, "touches the
'eart and makes the tears come. But you don't hear 'em at the fine
concerts. I'll go bail as there beant a woman now-a-days as can make a
man fall in love with her 'cause of her singin'."

"I wonder," said Lavinia musingly.

"Well now, let me take in the clothes an' we'll have a dish o' tea an' a
bite and then you shall sing your song."

"Yes, and I'll help you with the clothes."

Lavinia's offer pleased Betty, and the two were soon busy pulling the
various garments and bits of drapery from the lines and gathering from
the grass others that had been set to bleach in the wind and sun. This
done they entered the cottage. The window was small and the light dim. A
white-haired old woman was warming her hands and crooning over a wood
fire.

"Eh, mother," cried Betty, "I've brought someone to sing to ye. 'Lodgin'
on the Cold Ground,' do ye remember that old ditty?"

"Do I mind it? Why, to be sure. But who sings it now-a-days? Nobody."

"Well, ye're going to hear it, and ye'll have to say if this young miss
here trolls it as well as Moll Davies used to."

"What stuff ye be talkin', Betty," retorted the old woman. "Nobody can.
I can remember my mistress a-singin' it as well as if it was only
yesterday."

"Do ye hear that--I've forgotten what name Hannah told me yours was?"

"Lavinia Fenton. But please call me Lavinia."

"So I will. Now sit ye down, Lavinia, and talk to mother while I brew
the tea."

Lavinia was rather dismayed at finding she was to pit herself against
the fascinating Moll whose charms had conquered the Merry
Monarch--possibly no very arduous task.

The old lady was past eighty, but in possession of all her faculties.
When she said she remembered Moll Davies' singing perfectly well she
probably spoke the truth.

Tea was over. Betty cleared away and Lavinia at her request--to be
correct--at her command, sang, keeping her eyes fixed on the old lady
and so to speak singing _at_ her.

Before long the aged dame was mopping her eyes, and when Lavinia had
finished the pathetic ballad she stretched out both her wrinkled hands
towards the girl and in a quivering voice said:--

"Thank you, my dear. Lor' ha' mercy, it takes me back sixty year. I
haven't heard that song since Mistress Davies sung it, an' lor' bless
me, it might be her voice as I were a-listin' to. Aye, an' you're like
her in face, though not in body. She was short an' a bit too plump, but
she was the prettiest of wenches. Moll's singin' brought her luck and
maybe yours will too."

Lavinia heard the old lady's praise with delight. Betty could say
nothing. She was gazing spellbound at the nightingale. The charm of the
girl's melodious and expressive voice had swept away all her prejudices.
Lavinia should have a lodging and welcome. Betty went further. She did
the laundry of Mrs. Palmer, the wife of the director of the concerts at
the Great Room, and she undertook to tell the lady of the musical
prodigy living in her cottage, and promised Lavinia to beg her ask her
husband to hear the girl sing.


CHAPTER XXIII

"HALF LONDON WILL BE CALLING YOU POLLY"


And so it came about. Lavinia was sent for by Mr. Palmer, and she sang
to him. He was highly pleased with her voice, but he was afraid her
songs would not be to the fancy of his fashionable patrons.

"One half are mad to have nothing but Mr. Handel's music and t'other
half cry out for Signor Buononcini's. Your songs are like neither.
There's no taste for English ballads. They're out of fashion. Scales,
ornaments, shakes and flourishes are now the mode. For all that, I'd
like to make the venture with you just for once."

"Thank you, sir. If the people don't care for my songs, there's an end
on it. I'll have to wait as best I can till Mr. Rich opens his theatre.
I may have a singing part in Mr. Gay's opera. Mr. Gay has promised me.
Have you heard about his opera?" cried Lavinia eagerly.

"Oh, it's being talked of in the coffee houses, I'm told. But if Mr.
Rich has his way, it won't do. Maybe he'll cut out the songs. Mr. Rich
knows nothing about music. He can't tell 'Lilibullero' from 'Lumps of
pudding.' Still, it's something to be taken notice of by Mr. Gay."

Palmer was evidently impressed by Lavinia's talk, especially after she
had mentioned that she had sung to Dr. Pepusch at Mr. Pope's Villa. It
occurred to him that though Lavinia Fenton might be unknown now, a day
might come when she would be famous, and he could then take credit for
having recognised her talents.

Besides, the manager happened to know that Gay and Arbuthnot were at
that moment staying at Hampstead to drink the waters--the first to cure
his dyspepsia, and the second to ease his gout. Palmer decided to send
word to the poet-dramatist intimating that a young lady in whom he had
heard Mr. Gay was interested was about to sing at one of the Great Room
concerts and begging for the honour of his patronage. But he said
nothing to Lavinia about this. All he remarked was that she should sing
at his concert on the following Wednesday, and Lavinia went away in a
dream of pleasurable anticipation.

The eventful night came. Lavinia was full of enthusiasm but horribly
nervous. She felt she was competing with the two greatest composers of
music in the world. What if the audience hissed her? Audiences, as she
well knew, were not slow to express their likes and dislikes--and
especially their dislikes--in the most unmistakeable fashion.

The difficulty of her dress had been overcome. Palmer was shrewd. He had
an eye for contrast. He would have no finery and fallals, he said.

"Your songs are simple, so must your gown be. If the people take to you
in the one they will in t'other."

So Lavinia made her appearance in a plain dress, apron, mob cap, and of
course prodigious hoops. Her hair was arrayed neatly and not powdered.
There was powder enough and to spare on the wigs of the beaux in front,
and on the elaborate head-dresses of the belles.

Lavinia's unadorned dress suited her natural and easy carriage and made
her doubly attractive. Not a hand was raised when she bowed, but she
could see that every eye was turned upon her with expectancy and
curiosity. But there was also a certain amount of indifference which
provoked her. It could hardly be supposed that anything out of fashion
would be of interest to such modish folk.

Lavinia chose her favourite--"My lodging it is on the cold ground."

There were not a few aged bucks, painted and powdered and patched, aping
the airs and graces of younger gallants, who could remember Charles II.
and Moll Davies. They were startled when they heard Lavinia's liquid
notes in the old ballad--they felt that for a brief space they were
recovering their youth.

As for the rest, they were conscious of a pleasant surprise. Against the
simplicity and pathos of the old ballad Buononcini's stilted
artificialities sounded tame and monotonous. When Lavinia finished
applause filled the room. She had to sing again.

"You've caught 'em, my dear," said Palmer enthusiastically. "Before a
week's over you'll be the talk of Hampstead. You must stay here and sing
whenever I want you. Not every night--that would make you common. Only
now and again, just as a novelty. Do you understand?"

Lavinia knew the ways of showmen quite well. She smiled and nodded, and
her eyes wandering towards the door of the ante-room in which she and
Palmer had been talking, whom should her gaze light upon but Mr. Gay!
Palmer was very well acquainted with Gay by sight, and hastening towards
the visitor made him a low bow.

"I am highly honoured, sir, by your presence here to-night," said
Palmer, "I hope you did not think my sending you a ticket was taking a
liberty."

"Tut, tut, man! 'Twas very polite of you," returned Gay good-humouredly.
"I'm glad to be able to congratulate you on the success of your new
acquisition, especially as the little lady interests me greatly--as,
indeed, you mentioned in your note, though how you came to know of that
interest I'm at a loss to conceive, unless she told you so herself."

"Not directly, sir, I confess. But she chanced to remark that she had
sung to you and to Dr. Pepusch, whom I am fortunate in numbering among
my friends."

"Aye, aye. Well, she _can_ sing, eh? What d'ye think?"

"Admirable, sir, admirable. She has been gifted both by nature and art."

"And those gifts should put money in her pocket and yours too, Mr.
Palmer. I hope you'll reward her on a liberal scale."

"Why, certainly, sir. I shall be happy to oblige you."

"Oh, obliging me has nothing to do with the matter. But we will talk of
that later on. Pray pardon me."

With a slight bow Gay turned away and walked to where Lavinia was
standing, her cheeks glowing and her eyes glistening with pleasure at
the sight of the genial poet who had done so much to encourage her.

"Why, Polly," said Gay, extending his hand, "how came you here? I left
you making your way on the stage, and now I find you a songstress.
Faith, my dear, are you thinking of going back to your early days when
you did nothing but sing songs?" he added laughingly.

"Not quite that, sir, but I always did love singing, as you know. And so
do you, sir, or you would never have persuaded the good duchess to spend
so much money on me."

"Oh, maybe I was thinking of myself all the while," rejoined Gay. "I
admit I saw in you the very young woman I'd had in my mind for a long
time, for Polly Peachum in my opera. Did I not call thee Polly from the
very first?"

"Yes, indeed, sir. I've never forgotten it. I hope you'll always call me
Polly."

"Make your mind easy as to that. Why, if my dreams come true, half
London will some day be calling you Polly, too."

"I don't know what you mean, sir."

"Of course you don't. I'm not always sure that I know what I _do_ mean.
But never mind. Let us take a stroll on the heath. Etienne and a
couple of spick-and-span British officers. As their Commandant's body
came through the doorway they drew together with a growl.

Love was in that sound, and sorrow, and helpless rage. One or two broke
into sobs.

The British officers--one of them was the General himself, the other
his messenger, Captain Muspratt--bared their heads. M. Etienne, checked
in the midst of an harangue, stepped to Diane and took her hand
tenderly.

She gazed slowly around on the group of battered men.

There was no reproach in her look--Had she not failed as miserably as
they?--and yet it held a word of injustice. She could not know that for
her sake they carried these wounds. And Dominique Guyon, the one man who
could have answered her thoughts, stared savagely at the ground, offering
no defence.

"Dominique Guyon," commanded M. Etienne, "four of you will relieve these
_messieurs_ of their burden. Carry your master to the chapel,
where you will find Father Launoy and Father Joly."
"But pardon me, monsieur," interposed Amherst politely, "my soldiers
will be proud to bear so gallant a foe."

"I thank you "--M. Etienne's bow was stiff and obstinate--"but I assert
again that I still command this fortress, and the bearers shall be of
my choosing."
Diane laid a hand on her uncle's arm. "He is dead," said she.

"What matters it?" She did not understand this dispute. "Perhaps if I
promise M. le General that these men shall return to him when they
have laid my father in the chapel--"
The General--a tall, lean, horse-faced man with a shrewd and not
unkindly eye--yielded the point at once.

"Willingly, mademoiselle, and with all the respect an enemy may pay to
your sorrow."

He ordered the men to give place to the new bearers.

In the chapel Diane sank on her knees, but not to pray--rather to
escape the consolations of the two priests and be alone with her
thoughts.

And her thoughts were not of her father.

The stroke had fallen; but not yet could she feel the pain.

He was happy; he alone of them all had kept his quiet vow, and died
disdaining defeat; whereas she--ah, there lay the terrible thought!

--she had not merely failed, had not been overpowered. In the crisis,
beside her father's corpse, she had played the traitress to her
resolve.

The two priests moved about the body, arranging it, fetching trestles,
draperies, and candles for the _lit de parade_, always with stealthy
glances at the bowed figure in the shadow just within the door.

But she knelt on, nor lifted her face.

In the sunlit courtyard without the two commanders were still
disputing.

M. Etienne flatly refused to yield up his sword, maintaining that he
had never surrendered, had agreed to no terms of capitulation; that the
redcoats had swarmed over his walls in the temporary absence of
their defenders, gathered at the gateway to parley under a flag
of truce, and should be drawn off at once.

The mischief was, he could not be gainsaid. Major Etherington explained--at
first in English, to his General, and again, at his General's
request, in the best French he could command, for the benefit of
all, that he had indeed heard the recall blown, and had with
difficulty drawn off his men from the scaling-ladders, persuading
them (as he himself was persuaded) that the fort had surrendered.

He knew nothing of the white flag at the gateway, but had formed his
conclusions from the bugle-calls and the bare flagstaff above the
tower.

"Nevertheless, we had not capitulated," persisted M. Etienne.

The Major continued that, albeit he had tried his best, the Indians were
not to be restrained. They had poured into the fort, and, although he
had obeyed the bugles and kept his men back, it had cost him grave
misgivings.

But when the Ojibway called down so urgently from the summit of the
tower, he had risked disobedience, hoping to prevent the massacre
which he knew to be afoot.

He appealed to his General to approve, or at least condone, this breach
of orders.
For undoubtedly massacre had been prevented. Witness the crowd he had
found jammed in the stairway, and fighting ferociously.
Witness the scene that had met him at the head of the stairs.

Here he swung round upon John and beckoned him to stand out from the
listening group of red-coats.

"It can be proved, sir," he went on, addressing M.

Etienne, "that the lady--your niece, is she not?--owes her life, and
more than her life perhaps, to this savage. I claim only that,
answering his call, I led my men with all possible speed to the
rescue.

Up there on the leads I found your brother lying dead, with a sergeant
dead beside him; and their wounds again will prove to you that
they had perished by the bursting of a shell. But this man alone stood
on the hatchway and held it against a dozen Iroquois, as your niece
will testify.

What you suppose yourself to owe him, I won't pretend to say; but
I tell you--and I tell you, General--that cleaner pluck I never saw
in my life."

John, the soldiers pushing him forward, stood out with bent head.

He prayed that there might be no Ojibway interpreter at hand; he knew
of none in the fort but Father Launoy, now busy in the chapel laying
out the Commandant's body. Of all the spectators there was but
one-- the General himself--who had not known him either as Ensign
John a Cleeve or as the wounded sergeant from Ticonderoga. He had met
Captain Muspratt at Albany, and remembered him well on the march up the
Hudson to Lake George. With Major Etherington he had marched, messed,
played at cards, and lived in close comradeship for months
together--only two years ago!

It was not before their eyes that he hung his head, but before the thought
of two eyes that in the chapel yonder were covered by the hands of a
kneeling girl.

M. Etienne stepped forward and took his hand.

"I thank you, my friend--if you can understand my thanks."
Dominique Guyon, returning from the chapel, saw only an Indian
stepping back upon the ranks of the red-coats, who clapped him on
the shoulder for a good fellow; and Dominique paid him no more
attention, being occupied with M.

Etienne's next words.

"Nevertheless," said M.

Etienne, turning upon Amherst, "my duty to his Majesty obliges me to
insist that I have not capitulated; and your troops, sir, though they
have done me this service, must be at once withdrawn."
And clearly, by all the rules of war, M. Etienne had the right on his
side. Amherst shrugged his shoulders, frowning and yet forced to
smile--the fix was so entirely absurd.

As discipline went in these North American campaigns, he commanded a
well-disciplined army; but numbers of provincials and bateau-men had
filtered in through the breaches almost unobserved during the
parley, and were now strolling about the fortifications like a crowd
of inquisitive tourists.

He ordered Major Etherington to clear them out, and essayed once more
to reason with the enemy.

"You do not seriously urge me, monsieur, to withdraw my men and renew
the bombardment?"

"That is precisely what I require of you."
"But--good heavens, my dear sir!

--look at the state of your walls!"

He waved a hand towards the defences.

"I see them; but _you_, sir, as a gentleman, should have no eyes for
their condition--on this side."
The General arched his eyebrows and glanced from M.

Etienne to the Canadians; he did not for a moment mean to appeal to them,
but his glance said involuntarily, "A pretty madman you have for commander!"

And in fact they were already murmuring.

What nonsense was this of M. Etienne's? The fort had fallen, as any man
with eyes could see.
Their Commandant was dead. They had fought to gain time? Well, they
had succeeded, and won compliments even from their enemy.

Corporal Sans Quartier spoke up.

"With all respect, M. le Capitaine, if we fight again some of us
would like to know what we are fighting for."

M. Etienne swung round upon him.

"Tais-toi, poltron!"
A murmur answered him; and looking along the line of faces he read sympathy,
respect, even a little shame, but nowhere the response he sought.

Nor did he reproach them. Bitter reproaches indeed shook his lips,
but trembled there and died unuttered.

For five--maybe ten--long seconds he gazed, and so turned towards the
General.

"Achevez, monsieur! . . .

Je vous demande pardon si vous me trouvez un peu pointilleux." His voice
shook; he unbuckled his sword, held it for a moment between his hands
as if hesitating, then offered it to Amherst with the ghost of a
bitter smile.

"Cela ne vaut pas--sauf a moi--la peine de le casser . . ."

He bowed, and would have passed on towards the chapel. Amherst gently
detained him.

"I spare you my compliments, sir, and my condolence; they would be idly
offered to a brave man at such a moment.

Forgive me, though, that I cannot spare to consult you on my own affairs.
Time presses with us.

You have, as I am told, good pilots here who know the rapids between
this and Montreal, and I must beg to have them pointed out to me."

M. Etienne paused. "The best pilots, sir, are Dominique Guyon there, and
his brother Bateese. But you will find that most of these men know
the river tolerably well."

"And the rest of your garrison? Your pardon, again, but I must hold
you responsible, to deliver up _all_ your men within the Fort."
"I do not understand . . . This, sir, is all the garrison of Fort Amitie."

Amherst stared at the nineteen or twenty hurt and dishevelled men
ranged against the tower wall, then back into a face impossible to
associate with untruth.

"M. le Capitaine," said he very slowly, "if with these men you have made
a laughing-stock of me for two days and a half, why then I owe you a
grudge. But something else I owe, and must repay at once.

Be so good as to receive back a sword, sir, of which I am all unworthy to
deprive you."
But as he proffered it, M. Etienne put up both hands to thrust the
gift away, then covered his face with them.

"Not now, monsieur--not now! To-morrow perhaps . . . but not now, or I
may break it indeed!"
Still with his face covered, he tottered off towards the chapel.

CHAPTER XXV.

THE RAPIDS.

They had run the Galops rapids, Point Iroquois, Point Cardinal, the Rapide
Plat, without disaster though not without heavy toil. The fury of the
falls far exceeded Amherst's expectations, but he believed that
he had seen the worst, and he blessed the pilotage of Dominique and Bateese
Guyon.

Here and there the heavier bateaux carrying the guns would be warped
or pushed and steadied along shore in the shallow water under the
bank, by gangs, to avoid some peril over which the whaleboats rode
easily; and this not only delayed the flotilla but accounted for
the loss of a few men caught at unawares by the edge of the current,
swept off their legs, and drowned.

On the first day of September they ran the Long Saut and floated
across the still basin of Lake St.

Francis.

At the foot of the lake the General landed a company or two of riflemen
to dislodge La Corne's militia; but La Corne was already falling back
upon the lower rapids, and, as it turned out, this redoubtable
partisan gave no trouble at all.

They reached and passed Coteau du Lac on the 3rd.

Dominique and Bateese steered the two leading whaleboats, setting the
course for the rest as they had set it all the way down from Fort
Amitie. By M.

Etienne's request, he and his niece and the few disabled prisoners from
the fort travelled in these two boats under a small guard.

It appeared that the poor gentleman's wits were shaken; he took an
innocent pride now in the skill of the two brothers, his family's
_censitaires_, and throughout the long days he discoursed on it
wearisomely.

The siege--his brother's death--Fort Amitie itself and his two years and
more of residence there--seemed to have faded from his mind.

He spoke of Boisveyrac as though he had left it but a few hours since.

"And the General," said he to Diane, "will be interested in seeing
the Seigniory."

"A sad sight, monsieur!" put in Bateese, overhearing him.
(Just before embarking, M.

Etienne, Diane and Felicite had been assigned to Bateese's boat, while
Father Launoy, Father Joly and two wounded prisoners travelled in
Dominique's.)

"A sight to break the heart! We passed it, Dominique and I, on our
way to and from Montreal. Figure to yourself that the corn was standing
already over-ripe, and it will be standing yet, though we are in
September!"

"The General will make allowances," answered M. Etienne with grave
simplicity. "He will understand that we have had no time for harvesting
of late. Another year--"
Diane shivered. And yet--was it not better to dote thus, needing no
pity, happy as a child, than to live sane and feel the torture?

Better perhaps, but best and blessedest to escape the choice as her
father had escaped it! As the river bore her nearer to Boisveyrac she
saw his tall figure pacing the familiar shores, pausing to con the
acres that were his and had been his father's and his father's
father's.

She saw and understood that smile of his which had so often puzzled her
as a child when she had peered up into his face under its broad-brimmed
hat and noted his eyes as they rested on the fields, the clearings,
the forest; noted his cheeks reddened with open-air living; his
firm lips touched with pride--the pride of a king treading his
undisputed ground.

In those days she and Armand had been something of an enigma to their
father, and he to them; their vision tinged and clouded, perhaps, by a
drop or two of dusky Indian blood.

But now he had suddenly become intelligible to her, an heroic figure,
wonderfully simple. She let her memory call up picture after picture of
him--as he sat in the great parlour hearing "cases," dispensing
fatherly justice; as he stood up at a marriage feast to drink the
bride's and bridegroom's health and commend their example to all
the young _habitants_; as he patted the heads of the children
trooping to their first communion; as he welcomed his _censitaires_
on St.

Martin's day, when they poured in with their rents--wheat, eggs and
poultry--the poultry all alive, heels tied, heads down, throats
distended and squalling--until the barnyard became Babel, and still
he went about pinching the fowls' breasts, running the corn through
his hands, dispensing a word of praise here, a prescription there,
and kindness everywhere.

Now bad harvests would vex him no more, nor the fate of his familiar
fields.
In the wreck of all he had lived for, his life had stood up clear
for a moment, complete in itself and vindicated.

And the moment which had revealed had also ended it; he lay now beneath
the chapel pavement at Fort Amitie, indifferently awaiting judgment,
his sword by his side.

They ran the Cedars and, taking breath on the smooth waters below,
steered for the shore where the towers and tall chimneys of Boisveyrac
crept into view, and the long facade of the Seigniory, slowly
unfolding itself from the forest.

Here the leading boats were brought to land while the flotilla collected
itself for the next descent. A boat had capsized and drowned its crew in
the Long Saut, and Amherst had learnt the lesson of that accident and
thenceforward allowed no straggling. Constant to his rule, too, of
leaving no post in his rear until satisfied that it was harmless,
he proposed to inspect the Seigniory, and sent a message desiring M.

Etienne's company--and Mademoiselle's, if to grant this favour would not
distress her.

Diane prayed to be excused; but M.

Etienne accepted with alacrity.
He had saluted the first glimpse of the homestead with a glad cry,
eager as a schoolboy returning for his holidays.

He met the General on the slope with a gush of apologies. 'He must
overlook the unkempt condition of the fields. . . . Boisveyrac was not
wont to make so poor a show . . . the estate, in fact, though not
rich, had always been well kept up . . . the stonework was noted
throughout New France, and every inch of timber (would M. le General
observe?)

The impression she
once had that he was faithless had not wholly disappeared, and she tried
to banish it. Her imagination found for him all manner of excuses. Yet
she could not decide that she wanted to see him again. One moment it
seemed as though the blank which had come into her life since their
rupture had been filled up now that he had come back, the next that it
would have been better if he had not. She had gradually come to regard
her profession and all it meant to her in the future as the only thing
that mattered, and now in a flash at the sight of him all was
uncertainty and distraction.

But for the second time Vane had risked his life for her! Mr. Gay said
it was on her account that he had fought with Dorrimore, and Mr. Gay
would not tell an untruth. After all, this was everything. How could she
think otherwise than kindly of a man in spite of his faults, who was
ever ready to champion her? And she dropped off to sleep no longer
saying that she would not meet him.


CHAPTER XXV

"MR. RICH HAS GIVEN ME AN ENGAGEMENT"


Lavinia slept late and was only aroused by Betty hammering at her door.

"Get up--get up, Miss Lavvy. A fine gentleman's a-waiting to see 'ee.
'Tis him as I see go out with 'ee last night from the concert."

"Mr. Gay," said Lavinia to herself. Then aloud: "I won't be long. What's
the time?"

"Pretty nigh mid-day. I didn't wake 'ee afore 'cause I knowed you was
tired. He's a nice pleasant gentleman, sure. I wanted to hurry granny
out o' the room, but he wouldn't hear of it. I left 'em a-talking about
play matters. Once get mother on to _that_ she'll go on fur ever."

Lavinia sprang out of bed and hurried over her toilet. She presented
herself quite flushed and flustered. Gay received her with a smile and
noted her animation with pleasure. He unrolled a number of sheets of
music. The paper was rough and the notes, engraved and not printed as
to-day, were cramped and scratchy.

"You know some of these tunes may be, Polly; those you don't know you'll
soon learn. I'm going to speak to Mr. Palmer about your singing two or
three just to see how the people take 'em. The words will be the old
ones, not my new verse. You won't have to trouble about my words yet
awhile."

Gay ran over the titles of the old ballads--Purcell's "What shall I do
to show how much I love her?" "Grim King of the Ghosts," "Thomas I
cannot," "Now ponder well ye parents dear," "Pretty parrot say," "Over
the hills and far away," "Gin thou wert my ain thing," "Cease your
funning," "All in the Downs."

"Those are the principal songs," went on Gay.

"Yes, I know a few, but I've never heard of the others," cried Lavinia a
little dismayed. "How shall I learn the tunes?"

"You must come to my lodgings in the village and I'll play them over to
you on the flute. My friend, Dr. Arbuthnot, will be pleased to hear you
sing 'em. It will do him good--perhaps charm away his gout. The doctor
knows you."

"Does he, sir? I don't remember him."

"He was at Mr. Pope's villa the day you sang to us. I must have a
harpsichord and we must have Dr. Pepusch to tell us what he thinks."

Lavinia heard all this with great delight. She felt she was really not
only on the ladder of success but was climbing upwards safely.

Gay then fell to talking of other matters, and incidentally mentioned
that John Rich was back from Bath where he had been taking the waters,
and that he must be talked into engaging Lavinia permanently when the
season opened in October.

"It won't be singing yet awhile Polly, so don't be disappointed if you
have to continue to walk on the stage and come off again. I'm told his
'Harlequin' hasn't finished its run so he'll open with that and go on
till my opera's ready. I'm all impatience to see you in it."

Then patting her cheek and chucking her under the chin Gay took his
leave.

It would have been hard for Lavinia to say how the day passed. She
walked on the heath for no other purpose, so she said, save to revel in
the sunshine and pure air. She had a secret hope that she might
encounter Lancelot Vane, but embarrassment was mingled with that hope.
It would be better not, she felt, yet she was disappointed all the same
when after strolling about for half an hour she saw nothing of him, and
banishing her vain thoughts she went on to the concert room to inquire
if she were wanted to sing that night.

"Yes, to be sure," said Palmer. "You're all the talk. I've seen Mr. Gay,
and he tells me he's given you some songs he would like you to sing.
Suppose you go over a couple now for me?"

A harpsichord was in the room and Palmer asked her to sing what she
liked and he would fill in an accompaniment as best he could as she had
not brought the music. She selected "Now ponder well ye parents dear,"
the tender pathos of which had always appealed to her, and "Thomas I
cannot," a merry ditty which she knew from her old experience as a
street singer would be sure to please. Palmer was delighted with both.
The first he said brought tears to his eyes and the second put him in
good humour.

"My dear, you could not have made a better choice. I expect a crowded
room and you'll conquer 'em all."

And so she did. There was no longer coldness--no longer indifference.
Everybody was agog with expectation, everybody was pleased. Lavinia's
triumph was complete. Night after night it was the same. Palmer had
never had so successful a season. He put money in his pocket and he paid
his new star fairly well.

Two or three times a week for over a month Lavinia went to Gay's
lodgings and rehearsed the songs she did not know and those also with
which she was already acquainted. The words Gay gave her to sing were
not those to which she was accustomed and she found the change
confusing. Moreover, at each rehearsal some alterations in the words
were made, occasionally by Gay, occasionally at the suggestion of Dr.
Arbuthnot. But she never wearied, and so she was sufficiently rewarded
for her trouble when Gay bestowed upon her a word of praise.

But Lancelot Vane?

He came not in spite of his earnest entreaty that she would meet him. At
first she was wounded, then she was indignant. She remembered how
faithless he had proved, and all her bitterness against him and Sally
Salisbury revived. Then came a revulsion of feeling. Why should he not
be ill? Nay, he might even be dead. Perhaps worse. If he had carried out
his despairing threat? She pictured him floating on the surface of a
Hampstead pond and a shudder went over her at the gruesome thought.
Finally she subsided into dull resignation and strove to think no more
about him.

It was September; with the colder weather came the waning of the
Hampstead season, the fashionable folk were returning to London and
preparing for masquerades, ridottos, the theatres and the opera. The
Great Room concerts were but thinly attended and for a whole fortnight
Lavinia had not sung twice. But this did not matter to her. She had been
written to by John Rich, and he had engaged her at a little higher
salary than he had hitherto paid.

Lavinia sang for the last time at Hampstead and quitted the Great Room
not without regrets and doubts. Would she be as successful at the Duke's
Theatre? Would she have her chance? She well knew the rivalries a
rising actress would have to encounter. But what disturbed her most was
that Gay's enthusiasm over his opera did not seem so keen as it had
been. She dared not ask him the cause of his depression. She could only
watch his varying moods and hope the melancholy ones would pass.

Hitherto Betty had always been waiting for her to accompany her across
the heath, but this last night she was not in her usual place at the
door. Lavinia was not surprised as Betty had a bad cold. She hurried
out, anxious to get home. Some one a yard or so from the entrance shrank
into the darkness as she passed out but not so rapidly that he was not
noticed and recognised.

Lavinia was full of generous impulses that evening. Everything had gone
so well with her, and the future in spite of her doubts was so bright.

"Mr. Vane," she cried and moved a step towards him. "Do I frighten you
that you don't want to see me?"

"No," she heard him say, but it was with difficulty for his voice was so
low. "I'm not frightened but I'm afraid of what you might say or think."

"You don't give me a chance of the one or the other," she retorted. "You
don't keep your own appointments. 'Tis a bad habit of forgetfulness with
women, it's worse with men."

"You're right, but in my case 'tis not forgetfulness. I've seen you
every time you've sung. I've not missed once."

"And you've never acknowledged my presence! Thank you."

"I was at fault there, I suppose. I kept my happiness to myself. I ought
to have thanked you for the joy of seeing and hearing you but I was
doubtful whether I should not be intruding."

"It would have been no intrusion," rejoined Lavinia her tone softening.

"Then I hope my admiration is not an impertinence."

"Oh, you're too modest, Mr. Vane. You've no confidence in yourself--save
when you've need to strike a blow."

"I've no confidence that I'm acceptable to you and--but may I accompany
you across the heath? I notice that your usual bodyguard is absent
to-night."

"Oh, you've noticed _that_. May be that bodyguard prevented what you're
pleased to call your intrusion."

"It made no difference. Had you been alone I should have taken care that
you reached home safely but you would not have known that I was within
call. May I?"

He had offered his arm. She accepted it. Now that he was close to her
she could see that he had vastly improved. His unhealthy pallor was
gone, his eyes had lost their glassiness, his step was firm, his body
more elastic.

They set out. For a few yards not a word was said. Lavinia was the first
to speak.

"I hope the Hampstead ponds have lost their attraction," said she
lightly.

"Indeed yes--thanks to you. My mother says it is due to the Hampstead
air, but I know better. Is it true that I'm no longer to drink of the
elixir that is restoring me to health and sanity? Are you going to leave
Hampstead?"

"Yes, I'm returning to London. Mr. Rich has given me an engagement."

"I congratulate you. You're fortunate, but your fortune's not more than
you deserve. You're going to be famous. I'm sure of it."

"Well--and you? You'll be writing something soon, won't you?"

"I think not. I've no mind to court failure a second time. My father has
secured me a post at a mercers in Ludgate Hill. I'm still to mingle with
books but they're not of the sort which used to interest me. They have
to do with figures. I've undertaken to keep the accounts."

"I wish you success. Mind you keep 'em correctly. I've my doubts about
that," rejoined Lavinia with a little laugh. "But I mustn't discourage
you."

"You'll never do that. I love even your chiding."

"That's nonsense."

"It's true. I swear it."

The talk was drifting into a personal channel and Lavinia swiftly
changed the subject. The rest of the way was occupied in friendly chat.
At parting Lancelot would have kissed her hand but she adroitly avoided
his homage. Not because she was averse but because she thought it
discreet.

Lavinia went to bed that night content with the world and with herself.
She felt a secret pleasure that she had in a way brought Vane back to
life though how she had done it she could not explain. At any rate,
there was no magic about it. It was a very ordinary thing--no
romance--and certainly no love. So at least she argued and ended by
thinking she had convinced herself.

In London Lavinia went back to her old lodgings in Little Queen Street,
and revived her acquaintance with Mrs. Egleton. The latter received her
with much effusion, which puzzled Lavinia not a little. The cause,
however, was revealed when the lady explained how she had heard from
John Rich that when "The Beggar's Opera" was put into rehearsal he was
going to give her the part of Lucy.

"And you, my dear, are to play Polly."

"So Mr. Gay says, but I don't know for certain."

"Have you read the play?"

"No, I've only learned my songs."

"And the duet with me?"--"I'm bubbled."

"No. I know nothing about that."

"It's terribly hard, but there's plenty of time to get it by heart. I'm
dreadfully nervous though. We have to sing it without any instruments,
not even a harpsichord. All the songs are to be like that."

"Oh.... Won't it all sound very poor?"

"Of course it will. You see that mean hunks Rich won't go to the expense
of a band. He doesn't know how the opera will take the people. It may be
hissed off the stage the first night. I don't trouble my head about
politics--I can't say I know what the rubbish means--but I'm told
there's a good deal in the opera that's likely to give offence."

"I can't think Mr. Gay would write anything likely to offend anybody."

"Can't you? Well, if the Church can easily give offence, much more
likely a playwriter. Why, wasn't the Bishop of Rochester sent to the
Tower for what he said, and isn't he at this very moment in Paris and
afraid to show his nose in England? Oh, you can't call your soul your
own now-a-days. We poor playfolk may bless our lucky stars that we've
only got to say the words set down for us and not our own. Mr. Gay who
writes 'em for us'll have the worry and he's got it too, what with
Rich's scraping and saving and his insisting upon Mr. Quin playing in
the opera."

Lavinia now saw why Gay had been depressed. But Mr. Quin the surly, who
only played in tragedies, what had he to do with Gay's opera? She put
the question to Mrs. Egleton.

"Nothing at all. He hasn't any more idea of singing than an old crow.
It's ridiculous, but Rich will have his way. I tell you flatly, Lavinia,
if Quin plays the part of Captain Macheath he'll be laughed at and so
shall we, and the piece will be damned."

Lavinia thought so too. She had, as Mrs. Squeamish in Wycherley's play,
once acted with Quin on the occasion of his benefit and she well
remembered his stiff, stilted style and how he domineered over
everybody. She felt rather dismayed but she could only resign herself to
the situation. There was the consolation that the opera was not likely
to be staged for some time and things might alter. In the theatre any
sudden change was possible.

For weeks, indeed to Christmas, Lavinia remained one of the "lasses" in
"The Rape of Proserpine," but she was quite contented, for Lancelot Vane
was permanently in London in his new post and they were constantly
together. Every night he was waiting for her outside the stage door and
saw her across the Fields to Little Queen Street. It was not safe, he
protested, for her to be in that dark dreary waste alone at night and he
was right. Lincoln's Inn Fields was one of the worst places in London.
The most daring robberies even in daylight were of common occurrence.

Despite the short days of winter they took long walks together. On the
day "betwixt Saturday and Monday," like the lad and the lass of Carey's
famous ballad at that time all the rage, to them Sunday was the day of
days. Sometimes they strolled to the pleasant fields of Islington and
Hornsey; sometimes they revisited Hampstead, and occasionally by way of
the Westminster and Lambeth ferry to the leafy groves of Camberwell, and
the Dulwich Woods. They never talked of love; they were contented and
happy, may be because both were conscious they _were_ in love.


CHAPTER XXVI

"POLLY IS TO BE MY NAME FOR EVER AFTER"


The new year brought the first rehearsal of "The Beggar's Opera."
Hippisley with his rich, unctuous humour was Peachum, and not less well
suited to Lockit was Jack Hall's quaint face and naive manner. James
Spiller, the favourite of the gods, was Mat o' the Mint, and the solemn
visaged Quin essayed Macheath. Lavinia as Polly was both excited and
nervous, and Lucy (Mrs. Egleton) not less so. The rest of the cast
comprised actors and actresses of experience, and they went through
their parts philosophically and without enthusiasm. The motive and the
plot and the many songs made up a play which was to them quite novel,
and they were somewhat bewildered to know what to do with it. Gay
hovered about unable to decide whether his opera was going to be a
thumping success or a dismal failure. The general impression was in the
direction of the latter, but no one save Quin gave vent to his or her
sentiments.

"Well, what d'ye think, Mr. Quin?" asked Gay anxiously when the
rehearsal was over.

Quin refreshed himself with a pinch of snuff before he answered.

"Humph--can't say--can't say. It'll be a riddle to the audience. Bad
thing to puzzle 'em, eh?"

"Surely it's plain enough. But if it's amusing, what else matters?"

"I won't put my opinion against yours, Mr. Gay and Mr. Pope's, but----"

Quin shrugged his shoulders and stalked away, and Lavinia, who was
watching the two from a distance, ran across the stage, her face a
little troubled. She had interpreted Quin's gesture correctly.

"Oh, Mr. Gay----" she stopped. Gay was looking so sad.

"Mr. Quin doesn't like the opera, Polly. What do you say?"

"Mr. Quin doesn't like it because he can't act the part," cried Lavinia
indignantly. "None of us like him in it any more than he does himself.
He's not my idea of a highwayman."

"Why, what do you know about highwaymen? But I forgot, of course. Wasn't
the coach that brought you to London from Mr. Pope's villa stopped by
one?"

"Yes," rejoined Lavinia hastily, "but he was a brutal ruffian. Not your
Captain Macheath at all. Mr. Quin chills me. I can't fancy myself in
love with him. Nor can Mrs. Egleton. She says she could no more quarrel
over him than she could over a stick. His singing and his voice give us
the 'creeps.'"

"Faith, both are bad enough, but Mr. Rich seems bound to him."

"Why doesn't he try Tom Walker? When Tom isn't drunk, he sings like an
angel."

"I know--I know. Well, we'll see."

But nothing was done, and at the second rehearsal Quin's Captain
Macheath was more droningly dismal than ever. A dead silence followed
the dance with which the last act concludes, and amid the stillness came
from somewhere behind the scenes the sound of a mellow tenor voice
trolling Macheath's lively melody, "When the heart of a man's depressed
with care."

"By the lord," quoth Quin, "that's the voice of Tom Walker. He's the man
for Macheath. Mr. Rich, I resign the part. It was never meant for me.
Give it to Walker."

John Rich grunted, but he made no objection. It so happened that Walker
could act as well as sing, and that made all the difference in Rich's
estimation. So one great obstacle to success was removed. But there were
others. The duets and the choruses sounded terribly thin without an
instrument to support them. The "tricky" duet between Polly and Lucy,
"I'm bubbled," broke down constantly, and both declared they would never
sing it properly. But Rich was not to be talked out of his whim to have
no accompaniments.

One morning in the midst of the rehearsal, who should walk on the stage
but the stately Duchess of Queensberry. Lavinia, in quite a flutter,
whispered to Walker the name of the distinguished visitor. John Rich
received her with great deference and conducted her to a seat.

"Go on, please, Mr. Rich, don't let me interrupt your business," said
the great lady affably.

The rehearsal went on and eyes of the company furtively wandered to the
face of the duchess, anxious to know what so powerful a personage and so
keen and outspoken a critic thought of the performance. But the serene
face of her grace never changed.

The rehearsing of one act was over, and there was an interval before
commencing the next one. The duchess turned to Gay.

"How is this, Mr. Gay? Where are the instruments? Don't you have them at
rehearsals?"

"Mr. Rich means to do without a band for the singing. He says it isn't
necessary."

"Rich is a fool," retorted her grace with much emphasis. Certainly
Riccabocca had for once guessed right in his estimate of human
motives.

The two walked on, crossed a little bridge that spanned the rill, and
entered the parsonage lawn. Two dogs, that seemed to have sat on watch
for their master, sprang toward him barking; and the sound drew
the notice of Mrs.

Dale, who, with parasol in hand, sallied out from the sash window which
opened on the lawn. Now, O reader! I know that in thy secret heart,
thou art chuckling over the want of knowledge in the sacred arcana of the
domestic hearth, betrayed by the author; thou art saying to thyself, "A
pretty way to conciliate little tempers, indeed, to add to the offense
of spoiling the fish, the crime of bringing an unexpected friend to eat
it. Pot luck, quotha, when the pot's boiled over this half hour!"
But, to thy utter shame and confusion, O reader, learn that both
the author and Parson Dale knew very well what they were about.

Dr. Riccabocca was the special favorite of Mrs. Dale, and the only person
in the whole county who never put her out by dropping in. In fact,
strange though it may seem at first glance, Dr. Riccabocca had that
mysterious something about him which we of his own sex can so little
comprehend, but which always propitiates the other. He owed this, in
part, to his own profound but hypocritical policy; for he looked
upon woman as the natural enemy to man--against whom it was necessary
to be always on the guard: whom it was prudent to disarm by every
species of fawning, servility, and abject complaisance.

He owed it also, in part, to the compassionate and heavenly nature of
the angels whom his thoughts thus villanously traduced--for women like
one whom they can pity without despising; and there was something in
Signer Riccabocca's poverty, in his loneliness, in his exile, whether
voluntary or compelled, that excited pity; while, despite the
threadbare coat, the red umbrella, and the wild hair, he had, especially
when addressing ladies, that air of gentleman and cavalier, which is or
was more innate in an educated Italian, of whatever rank, than perhaps
in the highest aristocracy of any other country in Europe.

For, though I grant that nothing is more exquisite than the politeness
of your French marquis of the old _régime_--nothing more frankly
gracious than the cordial address of a high-bred English
gentleman--nothing more kindly prepossessing than the genial good-nature
of some patriarchal German, who will condescend to forget his
sixteen quarterings in the pleasure of doing you a favor--yet these
specimens of the suavity of their several nations are rare; whereas
blandness and polish are common attributes with your Italian.

They seem to have been immemorially handed down to him from ancestors
emulating the urbanity of Caesar, and refined by the grace of
Horace.

"Dr. Riccabocca consents to dine with us," cried the Parson hastily.

"If Madame permit!"

said the Italian, bowing over the hand extended to him, which however he
forebore to take, seeing it was already full of the watch.

"I am only sorry that the trout must be quite spoiled," began Mrs. Dale,
plaintively.

"It is not the trout one thinks of when one dines with Mrs. Dale," said
the infamous dissimulator.

"But I see James coming to say that dinner is ready?" observed the
Parson.

"He said _that_ three-quarters of an hour ago, Charles dear," retorted
Mrs. Dale, taking the arm of Dr. Riccabocca.

* * * * *

CHAPTER VIII.

While the Parson and his wife are entertaining their guest, I propose
to regale the reader with a small treatise apropos of that "Charles
dear," murmured by Mrs. Dale;--a treatise expressly written for the
benefit of THE DOMESTIC CIRCLE.Favourite though Jack Hall was not a hand nor a voice was
raised to greet him. Jack Hall lost his nerve--which, however, as it
turned out was the most fortunate thing which could have happened--and
this is what he stammered out:

"Ladies and gentlemen, we--we--beg you'll not call for first and second
music because you all know there is never any music at all at an opera!"

A roar of laughter followed this unique apology accentuated by the
unconsciously comical twist of Hall's face with which the audience were
so familiar; good humour was restored, the dialogue was permitted to be
finished and the grumblers were further appeased by the playing of Dr.
Pepusch's overture.

More pitfalls had to be got over safely. Every eye was turned on Sir
Robert's heavy rubicund, impassive face when Peachum sang the verse:


     "The priest calls the lawyer a cheat,
       The lawyer be-knaves the divine,
     And the statesman because he's so great,
       Thinks his trade as honest as mine!"


The statesman in the box, whatever he might have felt, was far too
astute to show any sign of ill temper. His eternal smile was as smug as
ever and so also was it over the duet in the second act:


     "When you censure the age
     Be cautious and sage
     Lest the courtiers offended should be;
     If you mention vice or bribe,
     'Tis so pat to all the tribe,
     Each cries 'That was levelled at me.'"


The audience were somewhat timid in applauding this, though all felt how
apt it was, until they saw Walpole actually clapping his hands, and then
they followed suit right heartily.

Still success was not assured. True Polly captivated her hearers with
her sweet natural delivery of "Can love be controlled by advice?" and
afterwards with the tender pathos of "Oh ponder well," and there were
roars of laughter and half suppressed chuckles from the men and titters
from the women at the witty talk and the cynical hits at love and
matrimonial felicity, but it was not until Spiller led the rousing
choruses, "Fill every glass," and "Let us take the road," the latter
adapted to the march from Handel's opera of "Rinaldo," then all the
rage, that they were won over. The experienced Duke of Argyll cried out
aloud enough for Pope in the next box to hear him, "It'll do--it must
do--I see it in the eyes of 'em." And the duke was right.

When all was said and done pretty Polly Peachum was the pivot around
which success revolved. Within twenty-four hours all the town was
talking of her bewitching face, her artless manner, her sweet voice. The
sordid surroundings of Newgate, its thieves, male and female, its thieve
takers, gave zest to her naturalness and simplicity. Moreover she was
not in a fashionable dress, she wore no hoops (and neither did Lucy) and
this in itself was a novelty and a contrast.

It was some time after the performance that Lavinia--whom everyone now
called Polly--left the theatre. The noblemen who had seats on the stage
crowded round her overwhelming her with compliments and looks of
admiration. One of their number, a man of portly presence at least twice
her age, whose face suggested good nature but little else, was assiduous
in his attentions. Lavinia accepted his flattery as a matter of course,
and thought nothing more about him. She was told he was the Duke of
Bolton, but duke or earl made no difference to her. The "allegoric drama"
of the Church empire, that fills the stanzas of the Vatican, is praised
by Mr Fuseli, with a full understanding of the purpose of the painter,
and feeling for its separate parts. He does not cavil, as some have
done, at the anachronisms.

"When," says an able, reflecting, and very amusing author,[2] "Aristotle,
Plato, Leo X., and Cardinal Bembo, are brought together in the
school of Athens, every person must admit, that such offences as
these, against truths so obvious, if they do not arise from a defect
of understanding, are instances of inexcusable carelessness."

Here we think this writer has missed the key of explanation.

The very picture is the history of the progress of mind, through
science and philosophy, to the acknowledgment of an immortal being.

The very subject amalgamates, in one moral idea, times, epochs,
localities. It treats of that which passes over time, and embodies only
its results. Mr Fuseli notices not these anachronisms, but says aptly
of the picture--"What was the surmise of the eye and wish of hearts,
is gradually made the result of reason, in the characters of the
school of Athens, by the researches of philosophy, which, from
bodies to mind, from corporeal harmony to moral fitness, and from
the duties of society, ascends to the doctrine of God and hopes of
immortality."

The very entertaining author whom we have quoted above, we must
here, somewhat out of place, observe, has, with Mr Fuseli, mistaken
the character of Hogarth's works.

He says--"Hogarth has painted comedy!"

and what is very strange, he seems to rank him as a comedian with "Pope,
Young and Crabbe"--the last, the most tragic in his pathos of any writer.
The invention in the Cartoons comes next under Mr Fuseli's
observation.

"In whatever light we consider their invention, as parts of _one whole_,
relative to each other, or independent _each of the rest_, and as
single subjects, there can be scarcely named a beauty or a mystery,
of which the Cartoons furnish not an instance or a clue; _they are
poised between perspicuity and pregnancy of moment_."

We believe we understand the latter sentence; it is, however,
somewhat affected, and does not rightly balance the _perspicuity_.

We must go back, however, to a passage preceding the remarks on the
Cartoons; because we wish, above all things, to vindicate the purest
of painters from charges of licentiousness.

He sees in Cupid and Psyche a voluptuous history: this may or may not be
so--we think it is far from being such; but when he adds, "the voluptuous
history of his (Raffaelle's) own _favourite passion_," he is following
a prejudice, an unfounded story--one which we think, too, has in
no slight degree influenced his general criticism and estimation
of Raffaelle.

We would refer the reader to "Passavant's Life of Raffaelle," where
he will see this subject investigated, and the tale refuted.

It is surprising, but good men affect to speak of amorous passion as
if it were a crime; by itself it may disgust, but surely coldness
is not the better nature.

In a score of ways
enterprising tradesmen adapted the scenes and the songs to their wares
and in all Polly was the principal feature. Polly became the fashion
everywhere. Amateur flautists played her songs, amateur vocalists
warbled them. Hardly a week passed without one daily journal or the
other burst into verse in her praise.

As for Polly herself she was inundated with love letters, some written
seriously, others purely out of admiration. Offers of marriage came both
personally and through the post. The world of gallants was at her feet.
She laughed at most of her would-be lovers and listened to none. The
good natured Duke of Bolton approached her constantly and was never
tired of going to the opera. Seated as he was on the stage it was easy
enough for him to express his adoration. He was also ever ready with
presents which he proffered with so respectful an air that she could
hardly refuse them. But what did the duke mean? Had he not a duchess
already? True, he was not on the best of terms with her. He had been
forced into marriage by his father and he and his wife had been
separated some six years. But this made no difference. The duchess was
still in the world.

Polly--henceforth she dropped the Lavinia--heard what his grace had to
say but gave him no encouragement beyond smiling bewitchingly now and
again. She did not dislike him, but she did not care for him. Lancelot
Vane was still the hero of her romance and that romance would never die.
Sometimes she amused herself and Lancelot too by telling him of the
offers of marriage she had received and how she had refused them, but
she never mentioned the Duke of Bolton.

One night--it was the twenty-second performance of the opera--Lancelot
Vane was in his accustomed place at the end of the second row in the
pit. There was a vacant seat on the other side of his, and half way
through the third act a late comer was heard growling and without saying
by your leave or with your leave attempted to force himself past Vane
into the empty seat.

Lance looked up angry at the rudeness of the fellow. He started. He
recognised Jeremy Rofflash-Rofflash very much the worse for the drink,
very much the worse in every way since Vane had last set eyes upon him.

Things had gone very badly with the swashbuckler. Archibald Dorrimore,
his old patron, was dead, killed by dicing, drinking and other vices.
Rofflash had had to take to the "road" more than ever and he'd had very
bad luck. A bullet from a coach passenger's pistol had struck his knee
and he now limped. He was nearly always drunk and when drunk all his old
hatreds were uppermost. Directly he saw Vane, his bleary eyes glistened
and his lips tightened over his uneven teeth and the ugly gaps between.

"Devil take me, if it isn't the cockerel whose feathers I've sworn to
pluck. Come to ogle the young trollop on the stage, I'll swear. If I
know anything about the hussy, she'll turn you down for the first spark
who flings a handful of guineas in her lap."

Jeremy's gruff rasping tones were heard all over the house. Polly and
Lucy were singing their duet "Would I might be hanged," and both cast
indignant looks at the side of the pit whence the interruption came. But
they could only hear, not see, so dimly was the theatre lighted.
Meanwhile Vane had sprung to his feet.

"You lie you ruffian," he shouted and his hand went to his sword.

The people in the front and back benches rose; the women screamed; one
of the theatre attendants who chanced to be near seized Rofflash who
struggled violently and swore loudly. Some of the audience came to the
attendant's assistance and the fellow was flung out. The uproar soon
subsided--it had not lasted more than a couple of minutes, the music
went on and Polly thought no more about it. She had not the slightest
idea that the chief actors in it so nearly concerned herself.

The sequel to the discomposing interruption was totally unpremeditated.
Polly was the "toast of the town," the idol of the sparks of fashion.
Their applause was uproarious when she and Lucy recommenced the duet,
but this sympathetic encouragement was not enough for the more ardent
spirits. When she issued from the stage door she found awaiting her a
bodyguard of young aristocrats dressed in the height of the mode and in
the gayest of colours. At her appearance every man's sword flashed from
its scabbard and was uplifted to do her honour.

Never was such a triumph. No wonder her heart bounded and her cheeks
flushed with pleasure. She smiled right and left and bowed; the rapiers
on either side crossed each other over her head and formed a canopy
under which she walked with a dainty grace. She was not permitted to
pass from beneath its shelter. The canopy kept pace with her, closing
behind. And in this way the procession set out to cross Lincoln's Inn
Fields amid cheers and shouts of "Pretty Polly Peachum!"

It would seem as though the services of Polly's protectors were not
wholly unneeded. As she emerged from the door and the gallants closed
round her there was a sudden movement in the mob, a fellow forced his
way through, hurling curses at anyone who tried to stop him. Apparently
his object was to get to a man standing close to the bodyguard. Anyway,
when the intruder was behind this man a woman's scream pierced the din
of voices, then came the report of a pistol and the man staggered. Those
nearest him, seized with panic, fell back and he sank to the ground.

A woman was seen to fling herself on her knees, bend over the body and
gaze into the face already becoming ashen. The next instant she sprang
to her feet, her features drawn, her eyes blazing. Pointing to the
assassin who was rushing through the crowd she begged someone to stop
him, but the big pistol he was flourishing deterred them.

"Cowards!" she screamed in fury. "Will no one seize a murderer? If
you're men you'll help me."

She made a wild rush in the direction the ruffian had taken and a score
or so of apprentices and a handful of Clare Market butchers recovering
from their surprise joined her.

"I think not," I replied; "it was to save the Celebrity."
Miss Trevor rose and grasped one of the sail rings to keep her balance.

She looked at me pityingly.

"Do you really believe that?"
"Firmly."
"Then you are hopeless, Mr.

Crocker, totally hopeless. I give you up." And she went back to her seat
beside the refrigerator.

CHAPTER XVII
"Crocker, old man, Crocker, what the devil does that mean?"
I turned with a start to perceive a bare head thrust above the cabin
roof, the scant hair flying, and two large, brown eyes staring into
mine full of alarm and reproach. A plump finger was pointing to where
the sandy reef lay far astern of us.

The Mackinaws were flecked far and wide over the lake, and a dirty smudge
on the blue showed where the Far Harbor and Beaverton boat had gone
over the horizon. But there, over the point and dangerously close to the
land, hung another smudge, gradually pushing its way like a writhing,
black serpent, lakewards. Thus I was rudely jerked back to face the
problem with which we had left the island that morning.
I snatched the neglected glasses from the deck and hurried aft to
join my client on the overhang, but a pipe was all they revealed
above the bleak hillocks of sand. My client turned to me with a
face that was white under the tan.
"Crocker," he cried, in a tragic voice, "it's a blessed police boat,
or I never picked a winner."
"Nonsense," I said; "other boats smoke beside police boats. The
lake is full of tugs."The Poultry, the
Royal Exchange were left behind, but the coach--with Sally inside
continually calling upon the driver to go faster, at the same time
promising him any reward he liked to ask--gradually drew upon the
fugitive. The latter was close to the road leading to London Bridge, and
turning, he fired his second barrel at the horse and the animal stumbled
and fell.

Rofflash thought he was safe, but he was not aware that the leader of
his pursuers was Sally Salisbury and that she knew perfectly well why he
was running towards the bridge. She sprang from the now useless coach
and called upon the crowd to follow her. Meanwhile Rofflash had
distanced his pursuers.

"The apothecary's shop on London Bridge," she screamed.

Dr. Mountchance at that moment was engaged in what to him was his
greatest pleasure in life--counting his gold. He was in the midst of
this absorbing occupation when he heard three separate knocks at his
outside door given in a peculiarly distinctive way. He knew Jeremy's
signal and he hurried his gold into an iron bound coffer which he
locked.

"If the captain's made a good haul so much the better," he muttered.
"It's time he did. He's had the devil's bad luck of late."

The old man shuffled to the door and shot back the bolts. Rofflash
precipitated himself inside with such haste and violence that he nearly
upset Mountchance.

"Lock the door," he gasped. "Quick. I've a pack of hungry wolves at my
heels."

He leaned against a heavy piece of furniture hardly able to speak while
the apothecary hastily fastened the door. Scarcely had he finished than
yells and heavy footsteps were heard; there came heavy thuds and fierce
kicks followed by repeated hammering. The door was well protected by
iron panels and besides its bolts a stout iron bar from post to post
helped to make it secure.

The two men looked at each other and Mountchance trembled. The crowd
outside were not officers of the law, neither were they soldiery. What
had caused them to hunt down Rofflash? Not because he had committed a
robbery on the King's highway. The rabble had a secret sympathy with
highwaymen.

"What have you done?" whispered the old man through his white lips.

"Shot a man. It was a fair fight--or might have been had it come to a
tussle."

Mountchance knew Rofflash to be a hardened liar. The truth probably was
that he had committed a murder. But there was no time to argue the
point. To judge by the terrific blows which came at regular intervals
something much more formidable than an ordinary hammer was being used.
Then there was the sound of splintering wood. The door sturdy as it was
would not stand much more. As a matter of fact the mob had procured a
stout wooden beam from somewhere, twelve or fourteen feet long and were
making it serve as a battering-ram.

"Damnation! I'm not going to be trapped," roared Rofflash, "I know the
secret way to the chapel. You stay here and face 'em."

"No. If that murderous mob doesn't find you they'll turn upon me. I'm an
old man but they'll have no mercy," whined Mountchance.

"You fool. Can't you see that some one _inside_ the house must have
bolted and barred the door? If they don't find you they'll search until
they do. You must tell them that I'm not in the place--that you haven't
seen me. That'll satisfy 'em and they'll go away quickly."

"It's you that's the fool. Somebody must have seen you enter--how else
did they know you were here?"

Another ominous splintering noise, then the sharp crack of ripping wood.

"No more of this damned nonsense," muttered Rofflash, and swinging his
arm he gave Mountchance a blow with the flat of his hand, toppling him
over. Without waiting to see what injury he had inflicted Rofflash
rushed to a tall cabinet, entered it and closed the doors after him just
as a yell of savage joy was raised outside. The iron bar was still
across the entrance but there was a jagged aperture above and below. A
couple of seconds more and the cabinet was empty. Rofflash had
disappeared through a secret door at the back.

Mountchance's house, as already mentioned, was really an adjunct of St.
Thomas's chapel, so far at least as the foundation was concerned. This
foundation had once formed the lower chapel or crypt and was then the
only distinctive relic of the bridge built by Peter of Colechurch, in
the thirteenth century. The Emperor, who was a wise, and therefore a
curious, inquisitive man, sent for the soldier, and asked him why he
resorted to that kind of friction. 'Because,' answered the veteran,
'I am too poor to have slaves to rub me down.' The Emperor was touched,
and gave him slaves and money.

The next day, when Adrian went to the oaths, all the old men in the
city were to be seen rubbing themselves against the marble as hard as
they could. The Emperor sent for them, and asked them the same question
which he had put to the soldier; the cunning old rogues, of course, made
the same answer.

'Friends,' said Adrian, 'since there are so many of you, you will just
rub one another!' Mr. Dale, if you don't want to have all the donkeys
in the county with holes in their shoulders, you had better not buy the
Tinker's!"
"It is the hardest thing in the world to do the least bit of good,"
groaned the Parson, as he broke a twig off the hedge nervously, snapped
it in two, and flung the fragments on the road-one of them hit the donkey
on the nose. If the ass could have spoken Latin, he would have said,
"_Et tu, Brute!_" As it was, he hung down his ears, and walked on.

"Gee hup," said the Tinker, and he followed the ass. Then stopping, he
looked over his shoulder, and seeing that the Parson's eyes were
gazing mournfully on his _protégé_, "Never fear, your reverence,"
cried the Tinker kindly; "I'll not spite 'un

."

* * * * *

CHAPTER VII.

"Four o'clock," cried the Parson, looking at his watch; "half-an-hour
after dinnertime, and Mrs. Dale particularly begged me to be punctual,
because of the fine trout the Squire sent us. Will you venture on
what our homely language calls 'pot luck,' Doctor?"
Now Riccabocca, like most wise men, especially if Italians, was by
no means inclined to the credulous view of human nature.

Indeed, he was in the habit of detecting self-interest in the
simplest actions of his fellow-creatures. And when the Parson thus
invited him to pot luck, he smiled with a kind of lofty complacency;
for Mrs. Dale enjoyed the reputation of having what her friends styled
"her little tempers." And, as well-bred ladies rarely indulge in
"little tempers" in the presence of a third person, not of the
family, so Dr. Riccabocca instantly concluded that he was invited
to stand between the pot and the luck!
Nevertheless--as he was fond of trout, and a much more good-natured
man than he ought to have been according to his principles-he
accepted the hospitality; but he did so with a sly look from over
his spectacles, which brought a blush into the guilty cheeks of the
Parson.At first she saw nothing but clouds of
suffocating smoke pouring from the windows, then showers of sparks
floating downwards and vanishing in the water, and finally tongues of
fire hissing and roaring from within the house and mingling in one huge
flaring flame.

Looking over the parapet she caught sight of a gaunt figure on the
abutment now strongly illuminated, now in deep shadow according to the
height and strength of the flames and the wayward wind. So fantastic, so
grotesque was this figure, his gesticulations, his waving hands, he
suggested a demon rather than a human being. Now and again he put a
curved hand to his mouth. Doubtless he was shouting but the roar of the
fire and the howling of the mob smothered every sound.

It was Rofflash--his true character revealed, nerve stricken, a coward
at heart. Yet he was in no immediate danger. The fire could not reach
him. The only thing he had to fear was the rising tide should it chance
to wash over the abutment and sweep him off his feet.

But it is always the unexpected that happens. Some receptacle with
inflammable contents which the fire had overlooked--probably it was
stored in one of the upper rooms--exploded with terrific violence. Roof,
rafters, tiles, brickwork, shot into the air and fell in every
direction. Sally with many others was sent prostrate by the shock, but
was uninjured. When she was able to rise and look over the parapet no
one was on the abutment. Jeremy Rofflash had met his fate.


"The Beggar's Opera" continued on its triumphant way. Night after night
the theatre was packed. Night after night Polly was listened to with
increasing delight. She had never sung her plaintive ditties with such
pathos. No one suspected the reason. No one knew that she had given her
heart to the poor young man killed in a brawl--so the newspapers
described it--in Lincoln's Inn Fields. Polly's love for Lancelot Vane
was a secret sacred to herself. She gave her confidence to nobody--not
even to Gay. She had been happy in her love dreams, happier perhaps than
if they had become realities. Her roaming life had not brought romance
to her until she met Lancelot Vane. No?"--for John's hand went up in
protest--"Well, youth is never the worse for a touch of modesty. Be
so good, then, monsieur, as to pass me the seal yonder."
John picked up and handed the seal almost without glancing at it.
His thoughts were elsewhere as the Commandant lit a taper, heated the
wax, and let it drop upon the letter. But just as the seal was impressed,
old Jeremie Tripier entered without knocking, and in a state of
high perturbation.

"Monseigneur! Monseigneur! A whole fleet of boats in sight--coming
down the river!"
The Commandant pushed back his chair.

"Boats? Down the river? Nonsense, Jeremie, it is up the river you mean;
you have the message wrong. They must be the relief from Montreal!"She had avenged
the death of the only man she ever loved with anything like purity. Let
that suffice.

The opera had an unprecedented run of sixty-two nights. Every one
marvelled. Such a thing had never happened before and when the next
season the run was continued its attractions were undimmed, save in one
particular--the original Polly Peachum was no longer to be seen or
heard. Gradually it became gossipped about that the Duke of Bolton's
suit had succeeded. The Polly over whom everybody, rich and poor, high
and low, for nearly five months had lost their heads and their hearts,
had quitted the stage for ever. Twenty-three years later the duke was
able to prove his devotion by making her his duchess. Even then she
rarely took part in fashionable functions. Her simple tastes and dislike
of display never deserted her. Yet she was not and is not forgotten,
though nearly two hundred years have passed away since she burst into
the full flush of fame. Her memory is preserved in every one of her
innumerable successors who have succeeded in reproducing in any degree
her charm and artlessness. This memory is not attached to Lavinia
Duchess of Bolton, but to "Pretty Polly Peachum."


THE END.