§10. A republic is sometimes also called a _commonwealth_. _Common_
signifies general, and is applied to what belongs to or is used by the
people generally. _Weal_ means welfare or happiness. _Wealth_ also was
formerly sometimes used for weal. Hence _commonwealth_ means strictly
the _common good_, or the _common happiness_. In a general sense it
signifies a state; but it is properly applied to a free state, one in
which the people enjoy common rights and privileges. Hence every state
in the union is a commonwealth or republic.


State Governments.


Chapter V.

The Nature and Objects of a Constitution, and the Manner in which it is
made.


§1. Of all the different forms of government which have existed, a
republican government, on the plan of that which has been established in
this country, is believed to be best adapted to secure the liberties of
a people, and to promote the general welfare. Under the reign of a wise
and virtuous ruler, the rights of person and property may be fully
enjoyed, and the people may be in a good degree prosperous. But the
requisite virtue and wisdom have seldom been found in any one man or a
few men. And experience has proved that the objects of civil government
may be best secured by a written constitution founded upon the will or
consent of the people.

§2. The word _constitute_ is from the Latin, and signifies _to set_, to
fix, to establish. _Constitution_, when used in a political sense, means
the established form of government of a state. In a free government,
like ours, it is properly called the _political law_, being established
by the people as a body politic, or political body. (Chap. III,
§5.) It is also called the _fundamental law_, because it is the
_foundation_ of all other laws of the state, which are enacted by the
legislature for regulating intercourse between the citizens, and are
called the _municipal_ or _civil_ law, and must conform to the
fundamental, or political law.

§3. A constitution is in the nature of an agreement between a whole
community or body politic and each of its members. This agreement or
contract implies, that each one binds himself to the whole, and the
whole bind themselves to each one, that all shall be governed by certain
laws and regulations for the common good.

§4. The nature of a constitution will further appear from the manner in
which it is made. It is evident that a people, in establishing a
constitution, must have some right or authority to act in the business.
Whence this right is derived, we will not now stop to inquire. There is,
however, somewhere power to enact a law authorizing the people to make a
constitution and prescribing the manner in which it is to be made.

§5. In forming a constitution, the people must act collectively. But
their number is too large to meet in a single assembly. Therefore they
choose a small number to act for them. One or more are chosen in each
county, or smaller district, and are called delegates. A _delegate_ is a
person appointed by another with power to transact business as his
representative. The assembly composed of the delegates so elected, is
called _convention_; a name given to most public meetings other than
legislative assemblies. Contained several attributes and emblems of the
Passion, nails, crown of thorns, stairs, and launches Longines
rooster in the center of the cross, and on the cross border painted
many flowers.

It was not, however, that this painting was in the eyes of both Doña
Luz price to that object, so the painting was masked. It touched
a spring, a departure that we have described the painting as if a door,
and we left to see another picture of a very superior merit; a horrible
picture and beautiful at the same time. It was the figure of Christ,
medium body, admirable Belda and a delicate and lengthy. The beard and
hair were counted. The regularity and symmetry of all the noble
factions instilled love and respect, but troubles of the gallows, the
horrors of the agony, all the torments that were marked on macilenta
and thin face, and at that chest and those wounded by the spear
side .

Christ was dead: the cleft of the nail livid that crossed his
right hand resting on the naked chest, the festering sores of thorns,
blood still pouring, they were in their temples, mouth ajar, bruised
lips, eyelids fell, although not closed entirely, leaving his watch
fixed and glassy eyes. The artist was right to join with inspiration
monstrous image of a creature close to dissolution, and the superhuman
that God Himself had taken. A smart box that attached to the divine Morales
others had said that was a disciple of Morales and not his own master.
Either way, the table had been linked in the house and was one of the
few jewels of any claim that the Marquis had not sold.

The picture was such a woman more delicate, less vigorous that doña
Luz, nor would its quarter will not look so frequently. The love of the
divine representation of Christ was combined with fear and with a
tremendous compassion that perhaps would have to fall into convulsions,
or produced in it a nervous breakdown and even delirium. But Doña Luz
was found very unique and strange delight in the contemplation of
that long table, where stood the highest mystery, and the two most
opposite ends of the worth of human nature: all the beatification,
all beauty, all the heavenly glow of our flesh that is capable,
together with a pure soul, and being home and temple of the Eternal,
and pain, at once, and the misery, suffering and pitiful and sickening
corruption of the meat itself.

Doña Luz found this appalling picture carefully covered by another, and
he kept, bringing the house to his room in the house of D. Acisclo.

There is therefore no restraint upon the power of
parliament; hence no law which may be enacted is contrary to the
constitution; and the people have not the same security against the
enactment of unjust laws as the people of the United States.


Chapter VI.

Qualifications of Electors; or, by whom Political Power is exercised in
the States of this Union.


§1. One of the first provisions usually inserted in a constitution of a
free state, is that which declares who shall be allowed to take a part
in the government; that is, to whom the political power shall be
intrusted. As this power is exercised by voting at elections, the
constitution very properly prescribes the qualifications of electors,
or, in other words, declares what shall be necessary to entitle a man to
the right of voting, or the right of suffrage. When, therefore, we speak
of the people politically, we mean those only who are qualified
electors.

§2. To be competent to exercise the right of suffrage, a person must be
a freeman, or, as we sometimes say, he should be his own master. While
under the control of a parent or guardian, he might be constrained to
act contrary to his own judgment. All our state constitutions,
therefore, give this right only to free male citizens of the age of
twenty-one years and upwards; twenty-one years being the age at which
young men become free to act for themselves.

§3. But even if this freedom were obtained at an earlier age, it would
not be expedient to bestow this right upon persons so young. They have
not the necessary knowledge and judgment to act with discretion. Some
are competent at an earlier age; but a constitution can make no
distinction between citizens. It has therefore, in accordance with the
general opinion, fixed the time at the age of twenty-one, when men shall
be deemed capable of exercising the rights and performing the duties of
freemen.

§4. Pepe took Ms. Manolita ghettos and such love of denuestos,
improperios pendencies and that every day three or four times armed.
This had thought Ms Luz, either because he wanted Ms Manolita and
this time I read these plays, having reread another Shakespeare, where
he dealt with it in a more masterful. absorbed in reading that was doña
Luz, where, as we said, went to see Mrs. Manolita. We kissed,
embraced, they found the most cordial good morning, and then spoke
of the doctor's daughter - My daughter, you're the first he has to know.
I know before my father.

Great news! My fights with Pepe Ghetto are no longer skirmishes.
Wrath of the two has reached its height. We are committed in a duel
to the death. - What do you mean me? - Doña Luz said. - I mean - "said
her friend - that to see if I get mad or if he becomes wise, we have
resolved to marry. Truth is that he gives up for now and said that
since he married me, should not be in sound mind, and they already get
married without him the game and I won the bet, but it it adds to marry
for revenge and retaliation. I answered that _no to feel that my son
lost, but you want desquitar_, and I assure you will leave with their
hands on the head if you continue playing, and he threatened that his
defeat will be greater when married, but the insolent, daring, I
paid no fear, and close your eyes and arremete and home.

Today, with more courage that Cid Campeador, will ask my father this
white hand, which will take the reins and forced him to leave its
passage and skipping canon of mule and be more clever your beautiful
black horse. Doña Luz, who could not conceal his feelings, which showed
on his face as white pebbles through the transparent water and a gentle
lake rather revealed that although joy, knowing the new one already
provided for her, her friend's wedding.

Hence the right of voting at
elections is called the _elective franchise_; and an elector, when
deprived of this privilege, is _disfranchised_. An _infamous crime_ is
one which is punishable by imprisonment in a state prison. Men guilty of
high crimes are deemed unfit to be intrusted with so important a duty as
that of electing the persons who are to make and execute the laws of the
state. It is provided, however, that if such persons are pardoned before
the expiration of the term for which they were sentenced to be
imprisoned, their forfeited rights are restored.

§8. By the earliest constitutions of many of the old states, electors
were required to own property, or to have paid rents or taxes, to a
certain amount. In the election of the higher officers, freeholders only
were entitled to vote. A _freeholder_ is an owner of real estate,
(property in lands,) which he holds in his own right, and may transmit
to his heirs. In the constitutions of the newer states, property has not
been made a qualification of an elector; and in the amended
constitutions of the old states this restriction upon the elective
franchise has been removed, until it has nearly ceased to exist in the
United States. It is now enjoyed by all white male freemen, with few
exceptions, in almost every state of the Union.


Chapter VII.

Elections.


§1. For the convenient exercise of political power, as well as for the
purposes of government generally, the territory of a state is divided
into districts of small extent. It has been remarked, that the people of
a state, being too numerous to meet in one assembly to make laws and
transact the public business, elect a small number to represent them.
But to elect these representatives and other officers, and to adopt the
constitution, or fundamental law of the state, are political duties,
which must be performed by the people in person, and in a _collective_
capacity. Hence the necessity of small territorial divisions, in which
the people may assemble for political purposes.

§2. A state is divided into counties, and these are divided into towns
or townships. The people of every county and every town have power to
manage their local concerns. The corporate powers of counties and towns,
and the election and the powers and duties of county and town officers,
will be given in subsequent chaptersIt's then that the boyfriend or husband, to whom I devoted to it,
it dreamed of mouth made a request, fill perfections.

Kids, and I pretended that I still pretend, are cherubim. As much as Pepe
worth ghetto, not worth losing care, or one hundred miles away, the man
that I dreamed. And for the kids, will be most noticeable difference,
because you have, if I, as I hope and desire, not be as pristine and
heavenly imagined, but lloron, naughty, dirty and stubborn, and I
have to arm a thousand pounds a day, and have mil cachetinas between
them, which I do not love them both.

I infer from the above that, and already married with children, I want
you more than single, if you still love you. While you marry, no longer
want? - Never stop quererte - answered doña Luz -. I do not ever marry.
This would greatly excited the curiosity and interest of Mrs. Manolita
and as privacy and confidence had reached its peak, produced a number
of confidences and revelations by Doña Luz, in a symposium on his
importance it deserves a separate chapter. Confidencia-VI-Doña Luz
daughter of the doctor led to confidences, telling doña Luz: - And
why you will not have to ever marry? Do not deny it: I know that is
difficult but not impossible. It's hard because these villages no
boyfriend for you, because you do not have to go looking for a
boyfriend to the big cities.

Not in your condition or your character fetching placement, under the
protection of any aunt you've neglected, or single and independent, now
that you are of legal age. - Useless answer is that I love - said Ms
Luz -: yourself to answer the question. Our friendship, however, should
be complete today. I would give it the stamp of truth, has no secrets
for you and abriéndote my heart. I do not have to fear that I have
by no vain, nor me in your rebated concept: I will show you as I am.
If the
inspectors suspect that a person offering to vote is not a qualified
elector, they may question him upon his oath in respect to his
qualifications as to age, the term of his residence in the state and
county, and citizenship. Any bystander also may question his right to
vote. This is called _challenging_. A person thus challenged is not
allowed to vote until the challenge is withdrawn, or his qualifications
are either proved by the testimony of other persons, or sworn to by
himself.

§7. In a few states, the voters are registered. A list is kept of the
names of all who have, upon examination, been ascertained to be
qualified electors; and those only whose names are on the register are
allowed to vote. Thus many interruptions to voting by the examination of
voters at the polls, and much illegal voting, are prevented. Voters in
some states are also required to take what is called the "elector's
oath," in which they promise to be true and faithful to the state and
its government, and to the constitution of the United States; and to
give their votes as they shall judge will conduce to the best good of
the same.

§8. After the polls are closed, the box is opened, and the ballots are
counted. If the number of ballots agrees with the number of names on the
poll-lists, it is presumed no mistake has been made, either in voting or
in keeping the lists. If the election is one for the choosing of town
officers, it is there determined who are elected, and their election is
publicly declared.

§9. The election of county and state officers can not be determined by
the town canvassers. A statement of the votes given in each town for the
persons voted for, is sent to the county canvassers, who, from the
returns of votes from all the towns, determine and declare the election
of the officers chosen for the county. To determine the election of
state officers, and of such others as are elected for districts
comprising more than one county, a statement of the votes given for the
several candidates, is sent by the several boards of county canvassers
to the state canvassers, who, from the returns of votes from the several
counties, determine the election of the state officers.

§10. In a few states, voting at elections is done _viva voce_. These
words mean by word of mouth. In voting in this manner, the elector
speaks the name of the person for whom he votes.

§11. In most of the states, persons are elected by a plurality of votes.
An election by _plurality_ is when the person elected has received a
higher number of votes than any other, though such number be less than a
majority of all the votes given. Suppose, for example, three candidates
receive 1000 votes: One receives 450; another, 300; the third, 250
votes. The first, having the highest number, though not a majority, is
elected. In the New England, or eastern states, a _majority_, that is,
more than one-half of all the votes given, is necessary to the election
of many of the higher officers. The least number of votes out of 1000,
by which a person can be elected by this rule, is 501.

§12. Either of these modes is liable to objection. When a simple
plurality effects an election, 1,000 votes may be so divided upon three
candidates as to elect one by 334 votes; or of four candidates, one may
be elected by 251 votes, and against the wishes of nearly three-fourths
of the electors. Do not you see he has fallen in love and their anger
is that I do not think so in love or as capable of love, because I
do not get bored and pots with tears and sublimity? Do not calculate,
finally, I want you too? If not, will I marry? Already married, after
the natural shrinkage that I save, I will show kindness, and I
will see what a treasure it in my soul, but hidden between mockery
and joy, and when you see the treasure, and he enjoys, and knows
that is theirs, and far better than he could dream of, has to know
that my heart is not cork but syrup and jelly, and put it as jelly
and syrup, and has to dance and laugh like declaring and confessing
that combine well rejoice in true love and laughter with the venture
more serious and more serious in the background.

Doña Luz, smiling and sighing at the same time, then replied: -
There was concern about your luck cause my sorrow: it was my
selfishness that make it out to win.

I sense that you will be blessed and I am happy, but I am jealous
of your friendship.

Why not confess? The only person who little by little I ido trusting my
heart and giving all my love, you. You, I admit, I pagabas with usury,
but now you have a husband, soon, perhaps, have children, and your whole
soul will be for them. This poor orphan, alone in the world, is
abandoned and no one understands that the soul and the love.

Manolita Doña embracing tenderly Ms Luz, replied in these words: -
Although I did not have a thousand reasons to rejoice in my wedding
I am happy because you excited today to declare your friendship
in the most explicit ever had. I am happy and proud that both estimated
to friend me. Fear not you that neither Pepe ghetto, nor Güetillos they
can be taken up in the future, you steal that much of the soul
that I love you. So what, you think that the magazine, place or site
where my soul is the love of wife and mother, has been filled now or
fill and empty as before?
Although there is no
written constitution adopted by the people, as in a republic, the
members of one branch of the law-making power are elected by the people.
In such election they are said to exercise political power.

§4. We notice next the division of the civil power. This power, in well
constructed governments, is divided into three departments, the
legislative, the executive, and the judicial. The legislative department
is that by which the laws of the state are made. The legislature is
composed of two bodies, the members of which are elected by the people.
In limited monarchies where one branch of the legislature is elective,
the other is an aristocratic body, composed of men of wealth and
dignity, as the British house of lords.

§5. The executive department is intrusted with the power of executing,
or carrying into effect, the laws of the state. There is in this
department a governor, assisted by a number of other officers, some of
whom are elected by the people; others are appointed in such manner as
the constitution or laws prescribe. The powers and duties of the
governor of a state will be more particularly described in another
place.

§6. The judicial department is that by which justice is administered to
the citizens. It embraces the several courts of the state. All judges
and justices of the peace are judicial officers; and they have power,
and it is their business to judge of and apply the law in cases brought
before them for trial. A more particular description of the powers and
duties of judicial officers, and the manner of conducting trials in
courts of justice, will be given elsewhere. (Chap. XVII-XX.)

§7. Experience has shown the propriety of dividing the civil power into
these three departments, and of confining the officers of each
department to the powers and duties belonging to the same. Those who
make the laws should not exercise the power of executing them; nor
should they who either make or execute the laws sit in judgment over
those who are brought before them for trial. A government in which the
different powers of making, executing, and applying the laws should be
united in a single body of men, however numerous, would be little better
than an absolute despotism.

- So where were the attraction for me enough. From my father, but my
traffic has been stalwart in the Bürgerhaus welcome. "Care only
that you do not fall annoying!" was the only thing in this relationship,
he sometimes reminded me. I think not, however, that my friends often
come to each bin. As it happened one day that my parents' home in an old
Lord of our city from the newest and really pretty good work of my hands
has been presented. When this his admiration to recognize gave, on the
other hand, my father remarked that I also have been almost a
year with Master Paulsen was in teaching.

"So, so," replied the old gentleman; "in Poppenspäler Pole!"

I had never heard that my friend lead such a nickname, and asked,
perhaps a little saucy, what that should mean.

But the old man smiled very sneaky and wanted no further information
geben.-On Sunday, I was by the Paul Chen spouses are invited to the
evening to help them celebrate their wedding day to help. It was
in late summer, and since I am early on the road and the housewife
is still in the kitchen had to run a business, so Paulsen went
with me into the garden, where we are together under the big lime
sat on the bench.

I was the "Pole Poppenspäler again haggard, and there was me in the
head around so that I hardly talk to his answer was, finally, as he looked
at me a little because of my seriously rebuked absentmindedness
had gradezu I asked him what that epithet to mean that. He was very
angry. "Who has made you a stupid word taught?" he cried, he jumped up
from his seat. But before I could even answer, he sat next to me again.
"Run, run!" he said, may reflect that "it is actually the best of
what life has given me .-- I will tell you, we probably still have
time to do so." - ----------- ------------------ In this house and
garden I grew up, my good parents lived here, and hopefully will once
my son live here!

- That I was a boy, is now a long time ago, but some things from that era
still stand as drawn with colored pencil, before my eyes. In
addition to our front door was then a small white bench with green
bars in the rear and side backs, which was after the one side down
the long road to the church, after another out of the city to the fields
could be seen. On summer evenings, my parents were sitting here, the
rest after work, nurturing, in the hours beforehand, but I used them
in fitting to take and here in the open air and refreshing outlook
to the east and west my school records.

In some
states they are apportioned among the several counties, so that the
number to be elected in each county shall be in proportion to the number
of its inhabitants. In others they are elected by districts, equal in
number to the number of senators to be chosen in the state, and a
senator is elected in each district. The districts are to contain, as
nearly as may be, an equal number of inhabitants; and sometimes they
comprise several counties.

§6. Representatives are apportioned among the counties in proportion to
the population in each. In some states they are elected in districts of
equal population, counties being sometimes divided in the formation of
districts. In the New England states, representatives are apportioned
among the towns. In about one-half of the states, they are elected
annually; in the others, (including-most of the southern and western
states,) they are elected every two years.

§7. The different modes of apportioning members of the legislature have
in view the same object--equal representation; that is, giving a member
to the same number of inhabitants in one county or district as to an
equal number in another. But in some counties the population increases
more rapidly than in others. The representation then becomes unequal,
being no longer in proportion to population.

§8. In order to keep the representation throughout the state as nearly
equal as possible; in other words, to secure to the people of every
county or district their just proportion of the representatives, the
constitution requires that, at stated times, the people of the state
shall be numbered, and a new apportionment of senators and
representatives be made among the several counties according to the
number of inhabitants in each county; or if the state is one in which
members of the legislature are chosen in districts, a new division of
the state is made into districtsThese threats also came news of a Pepe ghetto, where was that
wherever he saw it and was threatened again, and he rebuked the
outspoken and quietly, and she laughed the seriousness of him and
described of silly.

This enumeration or numbering of the people is
called taking the census. I was somewhat zag felt I dared not yet further
ahead. Suddenly I received from a large, goat here angepflockten a shove
in the back, that I by twenty steps away he flew. It helped, as I
umsah, I have stood under the trees.
In the United States, although the census sometimes includes
a similar register, the word usually means simply an enumeration of the
people.

