Many of the National Guards who still possess some degree of energy,
several of the municipalities which still preserve some love of order,
and a number of the resident gentry, employ their arms against these
excited swarms of brutal usurpers. Some of the ruffians, taken in the
act, are judged somewhat after the fashion of a drum-head court-martial,
and immediately executed as examples. Everybody in the country sees
that the peril to society is great and urgent, and that if such acts go
unpunished, there will be no such thing as law and property in
France. The Bordeaux parliament, moreover, insists upon prosecutions.
Eighty-three boroughs and cities sign addresses, and send a special
deputation to the National Assembly to urge on prosecutions already
commenced, the punishment of criminals under arrest, and, above all,
the maintenance of the prévôtés.[3265] In reply to this, the Assembly
inflicts upon the parliament of Bordeaux its disapprobation in the
rudest manner, and enters upon the demolition of every judicial
corporation.[3266] After this, the execution of all prévotal decisions
is adjourned. A few months later the Assembly will oblige the King to
declare that the proceedings begun against the jacquerie of Brittany
shall be regarded as null and void, and that the arrested insurgents
shall be set free. For repressive purposes, it dispatches a sentimental
exhortation to the French people, consisting of twelve pages of literary
insipidity, which Florian might have composed for his Estilles and
his Nemorins.[3267]--New conflagrations, as an inevitable consequence,
kindle around live coals which have been imperfectly extinguished. In
the district of Saintes,[3268] M. Dupaty, counselor of the parliament of
Bordeaux, after having exhausted mild resources, and having concluded
by issuing writs against those of his tenantry who would not pay their
rents, the parish of Saint-Thomas de Cosnac, combined with five or six
others, puts itself in motion and assails his two chateaux of Bois-Roche
and Saint-George-des-Agouts; these are plundered and then set on fire,
his son escaping through a volley of musket-balls. Although use of the
metric system has been sanctioned by law in the US since 1866, it has
been slow in displacing the American adaptation of the British Imperial
System known as the US Customary System. The US is the only
industrialized nation that does not mainly use the metric system in its
commercial and standards activities, but there is increasing acceptance
in science, medicine, government, and many sectors of industry.

______________________________________________________________________

@Appendix F: Cross-Reference List of Country Data Codes
FIPS 10-4: Countries, Dependencies, Areas of Special Sovereignty, and
Their Principal Administrative Divisions (FIPS PUB 10-4) is maintained
by the Office of the Geographer and Global Issues (Department
of State) and published by the National Institute of Standards and
Technology (Department of Commerce). These two-character alphabetic
codes are included in the text of the Factbook in the Data code entry
under the Government category. FIPS 10-4 codes are intended for general
use throughout the US Government, especially in activities associated
with the mission of the Department of State and national defense
programs.

ISO 3166: Codes for the Representation of Names of Countries (ISO 3166)
is prepared by the International Organization for Standardization. ISO
3166 includes two- and three-character alphabetic codes and three-digit
numeric codes that may be needed for activities involving exchange
of data with international organizations that have adopted that
standard. Except for the numeric codes, ISO 3166 codes have been
adopted in the US as FIPS 104-1: American National Standard Codes
for the Representation of Names of Countries, Dependencies, and
Areas of Special Sovereignty for Information Interchange.
Internet: This is a provisional compilation that generally agrees
with the ISO 3166 two-character alphabetic codes.The
municipality at first refuses, but finally consents on the condition
that Latierce be given up in exchange for him. Planche, consequently, is
set at liberty and welcomed with shouts of triumph. Latierce, however,
is not given up; on the contrary, he is tormented for an hour and then
massacred, while the directory of the district, which is less submissive
than the municipal body, is forced to fly.--Symptoms of this kind are
not to be mistaken, and similar ones exist in Brittany. It is evident
that the minds of the people are permanently in revolt. Instead of the
social abscess being relieved by the discharge, it is always filling
up and getting more inflamed. It will burst a second time in the same
places; in 1791 as in 1790, the jacquerie spreads throughout Brittany as
it has spread over Limousin.

This is because the determination of the peasant is of another nature
than ours, his will being more firm and tenacious. When an idea obtains
a hold on him it takes root in an obscure and profound conviction upon
which neither discussion nor argument have any effect; once planted,
it vegetates according to his notions, not according to ours, and no
legislative text, no judicial verdict, no administrative remonstrance
can change in any respect the fruit it produces. This fruit, developed
during centuries, is the feeling of an excessive plunder, and,
consequently, the need of an absolute release. Too much having been
paid to everybody, the peasant now is not disposed to pay anything to
anybody, and this idea, vainly repressed, always rises up in the manner
of an instinct.--In the month of January, 1791,[3269] bands again
form in Brittany, owing to the proprietors of the ancient fiefs having
insisted on the payment of their rents. At first the coalesced parishes
refuse to pay the stewards, and after this the rustic National Guards
enter the chateaux to constrain the proprietors. An abridgment of the
correspondent's story follows:_
The efforts of the Allies to force the Strait of the Dardanelles reached
their climax in an artillery duel on Thursday, March 18, which lasted
seven hours. The entire atmosphere around the Turkish forts was darkened
by clouds of smoke from exploding shells and quantities of earth thrown
into the air by the projectiles of the French and British warships. The
earth trembled for miles around.

The Allies entered the strait at 11:30 in the morning, and shelled the
town of Chank Kale. Four French and five British warships took part
in the beginning. This engagement reached its climax at 1:30, when
the fire of the Allies was concentrated upon Fort Hamidieh and the
adjacent fortified positions.

The attack of modern marine artillery upon strong land forts presented an
interesting as well as a terrifying spectacle. At times the forts were
completely enveloped in smoke. At 2 o'clock the Allies changed their
tactics and concentrated their fire upon individual batteries, but
it was evident that they found difficulty in getting the range. Many
of the shells fell short, casting up pillars of water, or went over
the forts to explode in the town.

At 3:15, when the bombardment was at its hottest, the French battleship
Bouvet was seen to be sinking at the stern. A moment later her bows
swung clear of the water, and she was seen going down. Cheers from the
Turkish garrisons and forts greeted this sight. Torpedo boats and
other craft of the Allies hurried to the rescue, but they were successful
in saving only a few men. Besides having been struck by a mine, the
Bouvet was severely damaged above the water line by shell fire.
One projectile struck her forward deck. A mast also was shot away
and hung overboard.
It could be seen that the Bouvet when she sank was endeavoring to
gain the mouth of the strait. This, however, was difficult, owing,
apparently, to the fact that her machinery had been damaged.In the meantime the plate,
linen, stuffs, jewelry, two thousand francs in silver, and even watches,
buckles, and rings,--everything is pillaged, piled on the backs of
the eleven horses in the stables, and carried off.--When property is
concerned, one sort of outrage provokes another, the narrow cupidity
of the lease-holder being completed by the unlimited rapacity of the
brigand.

Meanwhile, in the south-western provinces, the same causes have produced
the same results; and towards the end of autumn, when the crops are
gathered in and the proprietors demand their dues in money or in
produce, the peasant, immovably fixed in his idea, again refuses.[3271]
In his eyes, any law that may be against him is not that of the
National Assembly, but of the so-called seigneurs, who have extorted or
manufactured it; and therefore it is null. The department and district
administrators may promulgate it as much as they please: it does not
concern him, and if the opportunity occurs, he knows how to make them
smart for it. The village National Guards, who are lease-holders like
himself, side with him, and instead of repressing him give him their
support. As a commencement, he replants the maypoles, as a sign of
emancipation, and erects the gibbet by way of a threat.--In the district
of Gourdon, the regulars and the police having been sent to put them
down, the tocsin is at once sounded: a crowd of peasants, amounting to
four or five thousand, arrives from every surrounding parish, armed with
scythes and guns; the soldiers, forming a body of one hundred, retire
into a church, where they capitulate after a siege of twenty-four hours,
being obliged to give the names of the proprietors who demanded their
intervention of the district, and who are Messrs. Hébray, de Fontange,
and many others. All their houses are destroyed from top to bottom,
and they effect their escape in order not to be hung. The chateaux of
Repaire and Salviat are burned. At the expiration of eight days Quercy
is in flames and thirty chateaux are destroyed.--The leader of a band
of rustic National Guards, Joseph Linard, at the head of a village
army, penetrates into Gourdon, installs himself in the Hôtel-de-Ville,
declares himself the people's protector against the directory of the
district, writes to the department in the name of his "companions in
arms," and vaunts his patriotism. Meanwhile he commands as a conqueror,
throws open the prisons, and promises that, if the regular troops
and police be sent off; he and his companions will withdraw in good
order.--This species of tumultuous authority, however, instituted by
acclamation for attack, is powerless for resistance. Scarcely has Linard
retired when savagery is let loose. "A price is set upon the heads
of the administrators; their houses are the first devastated; all the
houses of wealthy citizens are pillaged; and the same is the case
with all chateaux and country habitations which display any signs of
luxury."--Fifteen gentlemen, assembled together at the house of M.
d'Escayrac, in Castel, appeal to all good citizens to march to the
assistance of the proprietors who may be attacked in this jacquerie,
which is spreading everywhere;[3272] but there are too few proprietors
in the country, and none of the towns have too many of them for their
own protection. M. d'Escayrac, after a few skirmishes, abandoned by the
municipal officers of his village, and wounded, withdraws to the house
of the Comte de Clarac, a major-general, in Languedoc. Here, too, the
chateau, is surrounded,[3273] blockaded, and besieged by the local
National Guard. M. de Clarac descends and tries to hold a parley with
the attacking party, and is fired upon. He goes back inside and throws
money out of the window; the money is gathered up, and he is again fired
upon. The chateau is set on fire, and M. d'Escayrac receives five shots,
and is killed. What--you chatter about life, old Pall, you who have seen
only death? Life is black on one side and white on the other. To-day I'm
only a broom, but yesterday I stood in the forest, so stout and trim, and
wanted to be something great. They all want to be great, you see,
so it happened as it happened! Now I think like this: What comes
is best; since you couldn't be great, you may as well be something
else; there is so much to choose from--One may of course be useful, and
at worst one can content oneself with being good, and when one has not
been given two legs to stand on, one must be happy anyhow and hop
on one.

[Broom goes bumping along and finally leans against altar.]
PEHR. [Walks rapidly over to holy-water fount, by confessional, takes
holy-water sprinkler and sprinkles out into the church.] Away, spectres
and evil spirits! [As he lays back sprinkler a noise is heard from the
confessional.] Someone is there! Reverend Father, hear me and accept
the sighs of a broken heart!

LISA. [In assumed voice--from confessional.] Speak, my son.

PEHR. How shall I leave my dreams?

LISA. Oh, you have dreamed enough and you are no longer young.
Think of your missteps--have you not made such?

PEHR. Yes, I have pursued fortune and have sacrificed conscience and
honor in order to win fame and power. Now I cannot bear misfortune, and
hate myself!

LISA. Then you have ceased to love yourself above all else?

PEHR. Yes.--I would free myself from _self_--if I could.

LISA. Then, Pehr, you can also love another.

PEHR. Oh, yes! But where shall I seek her?

LISA. [Comes out.] Here! [They embrace.]
PEHR. Now you will not leave me again?

LISA. No, Pehr, for now I believe you love me.
PEHR. What good fairy sent you across my pathway?
LISA. Do you still believe in good fairies? Mark you, when a little
baby boy is born into the world, a little baby girl is also born
somewhere; and they seek and seek until they find each other.
Sometimes they go amiss as to the right one, then it turns out
badly; sometimes they never find each other, then there is much
sorrow and affliction; but when they find each other, then there
is joy, and it is the greatest joy life holds.
PEHR. It is Paradise Found!
[Enter sexton, with staff--The old Man in the tower.]
SEXTON. The church must be closed.
LISA. See, now he drives us from Paradise!
PEHR. That he cannot do.--We carry it with us and lay it, like the
verdant isle, out in the stormy sea.
SEXTON. [Lays down his staff.] Alongside the peaceful harbor, where
the waves break up and go to rest.
PEHR AND LISA. Father! Father! [Fairy and Elf appear, each in their
window.] 
CURTAIN.But there is no way of
persuading the peasantry that it is order which they wish to restore.
With that stubbornness of the imagination which no obstacle arrests,
and which, like a vigorous spring, always finds some outlet, the people
declare that "the gendarmes and National Guard" who come to restrain
them "are priests and gentlemen in disguise."--The new theories,
moreover, have struck down to the lowest depths; and nothing is easier
than to draw from them the abolition of debts, and even the agrarian
law. At Ribérac, which is invaded by the people of the neighboring
parishes, a village tailor, taking the catechism of the Constitution
from his pocket, argues with the procureur-syndic, and proves to him
that the insurgents are only exercising the rights of man. The book
states, in the first place, "that Frenchmen are equals and brethren,
and that they should give each other aid;" and that "the masters
should share with their fellows, especially this year, which is one of
scarcity." In the next place, it is written that "all property belongs
to the nation," and that is the reason why "it has taken the possessions
of the Church." Now, all Frenchmen compose the nation, and the
conclusion is clearly apparent. Since, in the eyes of the tailor, the
property of individual Frenchmen belongs to all the French, he, the
tailor, has a right to at least the quota which belongs to him.I've
just been on the Pi-azza again, Sir. It's curious now the want of
enterprise in these Vernetians. Anyone would have expected they'd have
thrown a couple or so of girder-bridges across the canal between this
and the Ri-alto, and run an elevator up the Campanile--but this ain't
what you might call a _business_ city, Sir, and that's a fact.

(_To Miss T. as she appears._) Hello, MAUD, the ice-water cool down
your face any?

_Miss T._ Not _much_. My face just made that ice-water boil over. I
don't believe I'll ever have a complexion again--it's divided up among
several dozen mosquitoes, who've no use for one. But it's vurry consoling
to look at _you_, Mr. CULCHARD, and feel there's a pair of us. Now what
way do you propose we should endeavor to forget our sufferings?

_Culch._ Well, we might spend the morning in St. Mark's--?

_Miss T._ The morning! Why, Poppa and I saw the entire show I inside
of ten minutes, before breakfast!

_Culch._ Ah! (_Discouraged._) What do you say to studying the Vine
and Fig-tree angles and the capitals of the arcades in the Ducal Palace?
I will go and fetch the _Stones of Venice_.

_Miss T._ I guess you can leave those old stones in peace. I don't feel
like studying up anything this morning--it's as much as ever I can
do not to scream aloud!
_Culch._ Then shall we just drift about in a gondola all the morning,
and--er--perhaps do the Academy later?
_Miss T._ Not any canals in this hot sun for me! I'd be just as
_sick_! That gondola will keep till it's cooler.
_Culch._ (_losing patience_). Then I must really leave it to you
to make a suggestion!
_Miss T._ Well, I believe I'll have a good look round the curiosity
stores. There's ever such a cunning little shop back of the Clock
Tower on the Pi-azza, where I saw some brocades that were just too
sweet!Mounting his horse,
along with his guests and domestics, he makes a charge on the insane
wretches, and, with the aid of pistol and gun shots, disperses them. It
was time, for the trench they had dug was already eight feet deep,
and the water was nearly on a level with it: a half-hour later and the
terrible rolling mass of waters would have poured out on the inhabitants
of the gorge.--But such vigorous strokes, which are rare and hardly ever
successful, are no defense against universal and continuous attacks.
The regular troops and the gendarmerie, both of which are in the way of
reorganization or of dissolution, are not trustworthy, or are too weak.
There are no more than thirty of the cavalry in Creuse, and as many in
Corrèze. The National Guards of the towns are knocked up by expeditions
into the country, and there is no money with which to provide for their
change of quarters. And finally, as the elections are in the hands of
the people, this brings into power men disposed to tolerate popular
excesses. At Tulle, the electors of the second class, almost all chosen
from among the cultivators, and, moreover, catechized by the club,
nominate for deputies and public prosecutor only the candidates who are
pledged against rentals and against water privileges.--Accordingly, the
general demolition of the dikes begins as the month of May approaches.
This operation continues unopposed on a vast pond, a league and a half
from the town, and lasts for a whole week; elsewhere, on the arrival of
the guards or of the gendarmerie, they are fired upon. Towards the end
of September, all the embankments in the department are broken down:
nothing is left in the place of the ponds but fetid marshes; the
mill-wheels no longer turn, and the fields are no longer watered. But
those who demolish them carry away baskets full of fish, and the soil of
the ponds again becomes communal.--Hatred is not the motive which impels
them, but the instinct of acquisition: all these violent outstretched
hands, which rigidly resist the law, are directed against property, but
not against the proprietor; they are more greedy than hostile. The forts
continued firing until the Allies were out of range.

This was the first day when the warships attacking the Dardanelles
kept within range of the Turkish guns for any considerable length of
time.
The result for them was terrible, owing to the excellent marksmanship from
the Turkish batteries. The Allies fired on this day 2,000 shells without
silencing one shore battery. The result has inspired the Turks with
confidence, and they are looking forward to further engagements with
calm assurance.

ELIMINATION OF MINES.
_The London Times naval correspondent writes, in its issue of March
20:_
The further attack upon the inner forts at the Dardanelles, which
was resumed by the allied squadrons on Thursday, has resulted,
unfortunately, but not altogether unexpectedly, in some loss of
ships and gallant lives.It is because the parishes in his domain are "clubbist," governed
by associations of moral and practical levelers; in one of them "the
brigands have organized themselves into a municipal body," and have
chosen their leader as procureur-syndic. Consequently, on the 22nd of
August, eighty armed peasants opened the dam of his large pond, at the
risk of submerging a village in the neighborhood, the inhabitants of
which came and closed it up. The honor of the army and our fatherland
requires us to make a superhuman effort. Around us lies the iron ring
of the enemy.
Burst a way through it and join your comrades who have been fighting so
bravely for you and are now so near.

I have given you the last of our supplies of food. I charge you to go
forward and sweep the foe aside. After our many gallant and glorious
fights we must not fall into the hands of the Russians like sheep;
we must and will break through.There is no
recourse to the proper authorities: the administrators and judges, even
when their own property is concerned, "dare not openly show themselves,"
because "they do not find themselves protected by the shield of the law.
"--Popular will, traversing both the old and the new law, obstinately
persists in its work, and forcibly attains its ends. Thus, whatever the
grand terms of liberty, equality, and fraternity may be, with which the
Revolution graces itself, it is, in its essence, a transfer of property;
in this alone consists its chief support, its enduring energy,
its primary impulse and its historical significance.None of the
successor states of the former Yugoslavia, including Serbia and Montenegro,
have been permitted to participate solely on the basis of the membership
of the former Yugoslavia in the United Nations General Assembly
and Economic and Social Council and their subsidiary bodies and in
various United Nations specialized agencies. The United Nations, however,
permits the seat and nameplate of the SFRY to remain, permits the SFRY
mission to continue to function, and continues to fly the flag of
the former Yugoslavia.In France in the fifteenth century, in Holland in the sixteenth and in
England in the seventeenth century, the peasant, the mechanic, and the
laborer had taken up arms against an enemy or in behalf of their faith.
On religious or patriotic zeal has followed the craving for prosperity
and comfort, and the new motive is as powerful as the others; for in
our industrial, democratic, and utilitarian societies it is this which
governs almost all lives, and excites almost all efforts. Kept down for
centuries, the passion recovers itself by throwing off government
and privilege, the two great weights which have borne it down. --There
has been furious fighting on the roads to Bartfeld (in Hungary) in
the valleys of the Ondawa and Laborcz.

Near the Lupkow Pass and on the left bank of the Upper San our
troops have advanced successfully, forcing the way with rifle fire
and with the bayonet.The
obstacles it encounters only render it the more destructive,
beyond property it attacks proprietors, and completes plunder with
proscriptions.