As I passed southward on my journey, I left, March, 1846, my
manuscript in the hands of Wiley & Putnam, in N. York:[4] to be
published at my expense. During the six months in which I was absent
on my travels, my book was published; and the publishers sent copies,
as directed by me, to many of my personal friends, and to several
physicians. They sent other copies, which procured notices, some of
which were favorable, particularly one from the _London Critic_, and
others, the reverse. As few copies of the book sold, I was not
remunerated for the cost of publication. The copies sent to physicians
were mostly unacknowledged--received in cold, if not contemptuous,
silence. But my family physician, the worthy and learned Dr. Robbins,
to whom I dedicated the work, ever upheld me. He answered my questions,
gave me instructions, and showed me post-mortem dissections; and to
those who asked him if he believed in my theory, he wisely replied,
"Mrs. Willard is right as far as she goes." He knew that I made no
pretensions to understand the vast variety of medical subjects not
connected with the circulation, and that I never doubted his skill or
disputed his prescriptions. _--Probably analogous to the Northumbrian
"_wrax_, wraxing, wraxed," signifying to stretch or (sometimes) to
sprain.

A peasant leaving overworked himself, would say he had _wraxed_
himself; after sitting, would walk to _wrax_ his legs.Lady-friends, to whom I had sent my work, had
sometimes referred it to their medical advisers; and thus Dr. Hiester,
an eminent physician of Reading, Pa., became a believer. And in the same
way, the eminent Dr. Cartwright, then of Natchez, and President of the
State Medical Association of Mississippi, came to a knowledge of those
principles, which, as we shall hereafter show, he so remarkably
elucidated.

In September, 1846, the _New York Journal of Medicine_, then edited by
Dr. Charles A. Lee, contained a review or critique on my work, which, if
the history of the theory shall hereafter become a matter of special
interest, may, with my reply, contained in the March number of 1847,
furnish any examiner with the full state of the question at that period.

The learned reviewer showed himself acquainted with the subject as it
then stood, and with its history in the past. He held that the heart's
action, "the contractile power of the cardiac walls," is the main spring
or _primum mobile_, from which the circulating force proceeds,
notwithstanding the great discrepancies as to what that force is; and
while he objected to my theory, that it did not show any distinct
measure of force, he said that, while Borelli estimated the contractive
power of the heart at 180,000 pounds, Keill stated it at five ounces,
Sir Charles Bell at 51 pounds, Carpenter at 51½, and Hales at 50. He
abandoned, however, Harvey's idea that the heart was the only organ of
circulation. He believed that it was assisted by the contractile power
of the arteries, by the movement of the ribs and chest in respiration,
by capillary attraction, muscular contraction in exercise, and several
other forces; one of which, the attraction of the venous blood for the
pulmonary cells, had been recently pointed out by Dr. Draper. The author
did not suppose he was bringing forward any new truths; "but," said he,
as an introduction to his account of my theory, "are we not sometimes in
danger of forsaking old truths for new theories?"

Of my theory, he says: "The mere statement of it must satisfy our
readers that it is wholly untenable. It is well known that heat is
generated in every part of the system as well as the lungs. _--A jug
or pitcher with one ear or handle. Forby thinks it may be derived from
the Italian _gozzo_, a throat.

_Holl._--From the Saxon holh. German [Fraktur: hohle], a ditch.

_Anan!_ = How! what say you? Perhaps an invitation to come near, in order
to be better heard, from the Saxon nean, near. Vid. Brockett's,--Jennings,
and Wilbraham's Chesh. Glossaries.
_To be Muddled._--That is, confused, perplexed, tired. Doubtless
from the idea of thickness, want of clearness; so, muddy is used
for a state of inebriety.The writer then observes, that "the heat of the venous blood as it
reaches the right side of the heart (according to Davy), varies only two
or three degrees from that of the aorta. Granting, then, that the blood
receives three degrees in the lungs, it is very evident that the
expansion produced by it would be too small to be appreciable. The
cause, then, is insufficient to produce the effects." The writer gives
me credit for having ingeniously supported my theory, and then politely
bows me out of the department of physiology into my more appropriate
sphere of educating girls.

In my reply, this sentence from Cuvier was chosen as a motto:
"Respiration is the function essential to the constitution of an animal
body; it is that which, in a manner, animalizes it; and we shall see
that animals exercise their peculiar functions more completely according
as they enjoy greater powers of respiration."[5] My reasoning was to
this effect: "It is in vain to say that cannot be, which is." When
two events are so conjoined in nature that one is the only invariable
antecedent of the other, then, according to all logic, we are bound to
conclude that the first is the physical cause of the second, even though
we cannot understand how it should be. Of the circulation, such living
respiration as produces heat is the invariable antecedent, and nothing
else is. The heart's action, as stated by our reviewer himself, is not
therefore respiration, and not the heart's action or anything else, is
the cause of the circulation. This argument is upheld by the fact that
circulation, varies not only as respiration, but as its products
digestion, strength, and, according to Cuvier, animal vitality vary. All
begin with respiration, end with it, and are as it is. If respiration
ceases, restore it before the organism is deranged, and they are all
restored. We must conclude, then, that respiration is the cause of
circulation, although we could not see how it should be. Much more, when
we discern a mighty power, that of expansion, and see how the Almighty
has made our frame in reference to its production by caloric--the lungs
allowing of heat within them like wet cloth, and the nerves, bones and
muscles all made and arranged, so that oxygen shall be brought to them
by respiration on the one hand, and carbon by the numerous digestive and
circulatory organs on the other.

