'Except when she persuaded him to turn up his nose at the agency.
D'ye think he would take it now, since he has tasted the sweets of
his umbrella business?' then, as Nuttie paused, taken by surprise;
'Five hundred a year and the Home Farm would be better than, what is
it, a hundred and fifty and a floor over a warehouse!  I don't like
to see old Will's son wearing himself out there, and the lad is a
good honest lad, with business habits, who would do justice to you
after I am gone.'

'Father,' said Nuttie, trembling with the effort, 'I want you to do
something better than that.  I want you to let Mark take the agency
with a view to himself--not me.  Let him be as he would have been if
he had never hunted us up at Micklethwayte, and put me in his place.'

'Eh!' said Mr. Egremont.  'It is not entailed--worse luck; if it had
been, I should not have been bound to dance attendance at the heels
of such an old sinner as the General.'

'No, but it ought to go to the heir male, and keep in the old name.
Think--there have been Egremonts at Bridgefield for four hundred
years!'

'Very pretty talk, but how will it be with you, Miss.  We shall have
Fane, and I don't know how many more, coming after the scent of
Bridgefield now,' he said with a heavy sigh, ending with a bitter
'Hang them all!'

'And welcome,' said Nuttie, answering the thought rather than the
words.  'Father, I wanted to tell you--'

'You don't mean that any one has been after you at such a time as
this!' he cried.

'It was before--I mean it was the evening when we were all so glad,
before we began to be afraid.'

'The umbrella man!  By Jove!'

'And now,' went on Nuttie, in spite of the explosion, 'he would
hardly have ventured to go on with it but for this--I mean,' as her
father gave a little laugh of his unpleasant sort, 'he said it would
be the greatest possible relief, and make it all right for the
property to go to the heir male.'

'Hein!  You think so, do you?  See how it will be when I come to talk
to him!  A shrewd fellow like that who got out of the Micklethwayte
concern just in time.  Catch him giving up a place like that, though
he may humbug you.'

'Then you will see him, father?'

'If you turn him in on me, I can't help it.  Bless me! umbrellas
everywhere!  And here you mean to turn me over to the mercies of that
solemn idiot, Edsall.  I should have been better off with poor
Gregorio.'

'No, father; Mr. Dutton would not take me from you.  We would both
try all we could to make you comfortable.'

'Convert the old reprobate?  Is that his dodge?'

'Don't, father,' for the sneering tone returned.

'Come now,' he added in a much more fatherly manner, for her voice
had struck him.  'You don't mean that a well-looking girl like you,
who could have her pick of all the swells in town, can really be
smitten with a priggish old retired umbrella-monger like that.  Why,
he might be your father.'

'He has been getting younger ever since I knew him,' said Nuttie.

'Well.  He plays as good a game of whist as any man in England,'
muttered Mr. Egremont, leaving his daughter in actual doubt whether
he meant this as a recommendation, or as expressing a distrust of
him, as one likely to play his cards to the best advantage.  His own
sickness and mortality, and man's fleeting, shadowy life, are his
themes. The former has led him to think of the latter. The first
effect of his sorrow was to close his lips in a silence that was
not altogether submission.Egremont,
willing to escape from perplexities as well as to endeavour to drive
away if possible the oppression of his grief, invited him in, and he
had some gossip to impart, which at first seemed to amuse the hearer
after this time of seclusion, but the sick and sore heart soon
wearied of it, and long before the drive was over, Mr. Egremont was
as much bored as his daughter had been from the first.

