Produced by Christine De Ryck, Stig M. Valstad, Suzanne L. Shell
and PG Distributed Proofreaders


                      A
             VOYAGE TO THE MOON:
                     WITH
                 SOME ACCOUNT
                    OF THE
  MANNERS AND CUSTOMS, SCIENCE AND PHILOSOPHY,
                    OF THE
              PEOPLE OF MOROSOFIA,
                     AND
                OTHER LUNARIANS.


        BY GEORGE TUCKER (JOSEPH ATTERLEY)


    "It is the very error of the moon,
    She comes more near the earth than she was wont,
    And makes men mad."--_Othello_.


                    1827


     CONTENTS.


     CHAPTER I.

Atterley's birth and education--He makes a voyage--
  Founders off the Burman coast--Adventures in
  that Empire--Meets with a learned Brahmin from
  Benares.

     CHAPTER II.

The Brahmin's illness--He reveals an important secret
  to Atterley--Curious information concerning the
  Moon--The Glonglims--They plan a voyage to
  the Moon.

     CHAPTER III.

The Brahmin and Atterley prepare for their voyage--
  Description of their travelling machine--Incidents
  of the voyage--The appearance of the earth;
  Africa; Greece--The Brahmin's speculations on
  the different races of men--National character.

     CHAPTER IV.

Continuation of the voyage--View of Europe; Atlantic
  Ocean; America--Speculations on the future
  destiny of the United States--Moral reflections--
  Pacific Ocean--Hypothesis on the origin of the
  Moon.

     CHAPTER V.

The voyage continued--Second view of Asia--The
  Brahmin's speculations concerning India--Increase
  of the Moon's attraction--Appearance of the Moon
  --They land on the Moon.

     CHAPTER VI.

Some account of Morosofia, and its chief city, Alamatua
  --Singular dresses of the Lunar ladies--Religious
  self-denial--Glonglim miser and spendthrift.

     CHAPTER VII.

Physical peculiarities of the Moon--Celestial phenomena
  --Farther description of the Lunarians--National
  prejudice--Lightness of bodies--The Brahmin
  carries Atterley to sup with a philosopher--
  His character and opinions.

     CHAPTER VIII.

A celebrated physician: his ingenious theories in physics:
  his mechanical inventions--The feather-hunting Glonglim.

     CHAPTER IX.

The fortune-telling philosopher, who inspected the
  finger nails: his visiters--Another philosopher,
  who judged of the character by the hair--The
  fortune-teller duped--Predatory warfare.

     CHAPTER X.

The travellers visit a gentleman farmer, who is a great
  projector: his breed of cattle: his apparatus for
  cooking--He is taken dangerously ill.

     CHAPTER XI.

Lunarian physicians: their consultation--While they
  dispute the patient recovers--The travellers visit
  the celebrated teacher Lozzi Pozzi.

     CHAPTER XII.

Election of the Numnoonce, or town-constable--
  Violence of parties--Singular institution of the Syringe
  Boys--The prize-fighters--Domestic manufactures.

     CHAPTER XIII.

Description of the Happy Valley--The laws, customs,
  and manners of the Okalbians--Theory of population
  --Rent--System of government.

     CHAPTER XIV.

Further account of Okalbia--The Field of Roses--
  Curious superstition concerning that flower--The
  pleasures of smell traced to association, by a
  Glonglim philosopher.

     CHAPTER XV.

Atterley goes to the great monthly fair--Its various
  exhibitions; difficulties--Preparations to leave the
  Moon--Curiosities procured by Atterley--Regress
  to the Earth.

     CHAPTER XVI.

The Brahmin gives Atterley a history of his life.

     CHAPTER XVII.

The Brahmin's story continued--The voyage concluded
  --Atterley and the Brahmin separate--Atterley
  arrives in New-York.


 Appendix: Anonymous Review of _A Voyage to the
     Moon,_ reprinted from _The American Quarterly
     Review_ No. 5 (March 1828)


APPEAL TO THE PUBLIC.


Having, by a train of fortunate circumstances, accomplished a voyage, of
which the history of mankind affords no example; having, moreover, exerted
every faculty of body and mind, to make my adventures useful to my
countrymen, and even to mankind, by imparting to them the acquisition
of secrets in physics and morals, of which they had not formed the
faintest conception,--I flattered myself that both in the character
of traveller and public benefactor, I had earned for myself an immortal
name. But how these fond, these justifiable hopes have been answered,
the following narrative will show.

On my return to this my native State, as soon as it was noised abroad
that I had met with extraordinary adventures, and made a most wonderful
voyage, crowds of people pressed eagerly to see me. I at first met their
inquiries with a cautious silence, which, however, but sharpened their
curiosity. At length I was visited by a near relation, with whom I felt
less disposed to reserve. With friendly solicitude he inquired "how much
I had made by my voyage;" and when he was informed that, although I had
added to my knowledge, I had not improved my fortune, he stared at me a
while, and remarking that he had business at the Bank, as well as an
appointment on 'Change, suddenly took his leave. After this, I was not
much interrupted by the tribe of inquisitive idlers, but was visited
principally by a few men of science, who wished to learn what I could
add to their knowledge of nature. To this class I was more communicative;
and when I severally informed them that I had actually been to the
Moon, some of them shrugged their shoulders, others laughed in my face,
and some were angry at my supposed attempt to deceive them; but all,
with a single exception, were incredulous.

It was to no purpose that I appealed to my former character for veracity.
I was answered, that travelling had changed my morals, as it had changed
other people's. I asked what motives I could have for attempting to
deceive them. They replied, the love of distinction--the vanity of being
thought to have seen what had been seen by no other mortal; and they
triumphantly asked me in turn, what motives Raleigh, and Riley, and
Hunter, and a hundred other travellers, had for their misrepresentations.
Finding argument thus unavailing, I produced visible and tangible proofs
of the truth of my narrative. I showed them a specimen of moonstone.
They asserted that it was of the same character as those meteoric stones
which had been found in every part of the world, and that I had merely
procured a piece of one of these for the purpose of deception. I then
exhibited some of what I considered my most curious Lunar plants: but
this made the matter worse; for it so happened, that similar ones were
then cultivated in Mr. Prince's garden at Flushing. I next produced
some rare insects, and feathers of singular birds: but persons were
found who had either seen, or read, or heard of similar insects and
birds in Hoo-Choo, or Paraguay, or Prince of Wales's Island. In short,
having made up their minds that what I said was not true, they had an
answer ready for all that I could urge in support of my character; and
those who judged most christianly, defended my veracity at the expense
of my understanding, and ascribed my conduct to partial insanity.

There was, indeed, a short suspension to this cruel distrust. An old
friend coming to see me one day, and admiring a beautiful crystal which
I had brought from the Moon, insisted on showing it to a jeweller, who
said that it was an unusually hard stone, and that if it were a diamond,
it would be worth upwards of 150,000 dollars. I know not whether the
mistake that ensued proceeded from my friend, who is something of a wag,
or from one of the lads in the jeweller's shop, who, hearing a part of
what his master had said, misapprehended the rest; but so it was, that
the next day I had more visiters than ever, and among them my kinsman,
who was kind enough to stay with me, as if he enjoyed my good fortune,
until both the Exchange and the Banks were closed. On the same day,
the following paragraph appeared in one of the morning prints:

    "We understand that our enterprising and intelligent traveller,
    JOSEPH ATTERLEY, Esquire, has brought from his Lunar Expedition,
    a diamond of extraordinary size and lustre. Several of the most
    experienced jewellers of this city have estimated it at from
    250,000 to 300,000 dollars; and some have gone so far as to say
    it would be cheap at half a million. We have the authority of a
    near relative of that gentleman for asserting, that the satisfactory
    testimonials which he possesses of the correctness of his narrative,
    are sufficient to satisfy the most incredulous, and to silence
    malignity itself."

But this gleam of sunshine soon passed away. Two days afterwards, another
paragraph appeared in the same paper, in these words:

    "We are credibly informed, that the supposed diamond of the _famous_
    traveller to the Moon, turns out to be one of those which are found
    on Diamond Island, in Lake George. We have heard that Mr. A----y
    means to favour the public with an account of his travels, under
    the title of 'Lunarian Adventures;' but we would take the liberty
    of recommending, that for _Lunarian_, he substitute _Lunatic_."

Thus disappointed in my expectations, and assailed in my character,
what could I do but appeal to an impartial public, by giving them a
circumstantial detail of what was most memorable in my adventures, that
they might judge, from intrinsic evidence, whether I was deficient either
in soundness of understanding or of moral principle? But let me first
bespeak their candour, and a salutary diffidence of themselves, by one
or two well-authenticated anecdotes.

During the reign of Louis the XIVth, the king of Siam having received
an ambassador from that monarch, was accustomed to hear, with wonder
and delight, the foreigner's descriptions of his own country: but the
minister having one day mentioned, that in France, water, at one time
of the year, became a solid substance, the Siamese prince indignantly
exclaimed,--"Hold, sir! I have listened to the strange things you have
told me, and have hitherto believed them all; but now when you wish to
persuade me that water, which I know as well as you, can become hard, I
see that your purpose is to deceive me, and I do not believe a word you
have uttered."

But as the present patriotic preference for home-bred manufactures, may
extend to anecdotes as well as to other productions, a story of domestic
origin may have more weight with most of my readers, than one introduced
from abroad.

The chief of a party of Indians, who had visited Washington during
Mr. Jefferson's presidency, having, on his return home, assembled his
tribe, gave them a detail of his adventures; and dwelling particularly
upon the courteous treatment the party had received from their "Great
Father," stated, among other things, that he had given them ice, though
it was then mid-summer. His countrymen, not having the vivacity of our
ladies, listened in silence till he had ended, when an aged chief stepped
forth, and remarked that he too, when a young man, had visited their
Great Father Washington, in New-York, who had received him as a son, and
treated him with all the delicacies that his country afforded, but had
given him no ice. "Now," added the orator, "if any man in the world could
have made ice in the summer, it was Washington; and if he could have made
it, I am sure he would have given it to me. Tustanaggee is, therefore, a
liar, and not to be believed."

In both these cases, though the argument seemed fair, the conclusion was
false; for had either the king or the chief taken the trouble to satisfy
himself of the fact, he might have found that his limited experience had
deceived him.

It is unquestionably true, that if travellers sometimes impose on the
credulity of mankind, they are often also not believed when they speak
the truth. Credulity and scepticism are indeed but different names for
the same hasty judgment on insufficient evidence: and, as the old woman
readily assented that there might be "mountains of sugar and rivers
of rum," because she had seen them both, but that there were "fish
which could fly," she never would believe; so thousands give credit
to Redheiffer's patented discovery of perpetual motion, because they
had beheld his machine, and question the existence of the sea-serpent,
because they have not seen it.

I would respectfully remind that class of my readers, who, like the
king, the Indian, or the old woman, refuse to credit any thing which
contradicts the narrow limits of their own observation, that there are
"more secrets in nature than are dreamt of in their philosophy;" and
that upon their own principles, before they have a right to condemn me,
they should go or send to the mountains of Ava, for some of the metal
with which I made my venturous experiment, and make one for themselves.

As to those who do not call in question my veracity, but only doubt my
sanity, I fearlessly appeal from their unkind judgment to the sober and
unprejudiced part of mankind, whether, what I have stated in the following
pages, is not consonant with truth and nature, and whether they do not
there see, faithfully reflected from the Moon, the errors of the learned
on Earth, and "the follies of the wise?"

JOSEPH ATTERLEY.

_Long-Island, September_, 1827.


VOYAGE TO THE MOON.


CHAPTER I.

_Atterley's birth and education--He makes a voyage--Founders off the
Burman coast--Adventures in that Empire--Meets with a learned Brahmin
from Benares._


Being about to give a narrative of my singular adventures to the world,
which, I foresee, will be greatly divided about their authenticity,
I will premise something of my early history, that those to whom I am
not personally known, may be better able to ascertain what credit is
due to the facts which rest only on my own assertion.

I was born in the village of Huntingdon, on Long-Island, on the 11th day
of May, 1786. Joseph Atterley, my father, formerly of East Jersey, as it
was once called, had settled in this place about a year before, in
consequence of having married my mother, Alice Schermerhorn, the only
daughter of a snug Dutch farmer in the neighbourhood. By means of the
portion he received with my mother, together with his own earnings,
he was enabled to quit the life of a sailor, to which he had been bred,
and to enter into trade. After the death of his father-in-law, by whose
will he received a handsome accession to his property, he sought, in the
city of New-York, a theatre better suited to his enlarged capital. He
here engaged in foreign trade; and, partaking of the prosperity which
then attended American commerce, he gradually extended his business, and
finally embarked in our new branch of traffic to the East Indies and
China. He was now very generally respected, both for his wealth and fair
dealing; was several years a director in one of the insurance offices;
was president of the society for relieving the widows and orphans of
distressed seamen; and, it is said, might have been chosen alderman,
if he had not refused, on the ground that he did not think himself
qualified.

