Produced by SeeWei Toh and Alan R. Light.  HTML version by Al Haines.


Notes:

1. Legends: = Sidenotes [Bible reference] = Bible references

2. Sections are numbered for future reference.  These sections
have been chosen arbitrarily, i.e., {1}, {2}

3. This is 'Part 1', but is a complete work in itself.  Bunyan
wrote a sequel ('Part 2') some years after the first part, hence
the 'Parts'.


THE PILGRIM'S PROGRESS

From This World To That Which Is To Come


by

John Bunyan


Part One

DELIVERED UNDER THE SIMILITUDE OF A DREAM BY JOHN BUNYAN


The Author's Apology for his Book


{1} When at the first I took my pen in hand
    Thus for to write, I did not understand
    That I at all should make a little book
    In such a mode; nay, I had undertook
    To make another; which, when almost done,
    Before I was aware, I this begun.

    And thus it was:  I, writing of the way
    And race of saints, in this our gospel day,
    Fell suddenly into an allegory
    About their journey, and the way to glory,
    In more than twenty things which I set down.
    This done, I twenty more had in my crown;
    And they again began to multiply,
    Like sparks that from the coals of fire do fly.

    Nay, then, thought I, if that you breed so fast,
    I'll put you by yourselves, lest you at last
    Should prove ad infinitum, and eat out
    The book that I already am about.

    Well, so I did; but yet I did not think
    To shew to all the world my pen and ink
    In such a mode; I only thought to make
    I knew not what; nor did I undertake
    Thereby to please my neighbour:  no, not I;
    I did it my own self to gratify.

{2} Neither did I but vacant seasons spend
    In this my scribble; nor did I intend
    But to divert myself in doing this
    From worser thoughts which make me do amiss.

    Thus, I set pen to paper with delight,
    And quickly had my thoughts in black and white.
    For, having now my method by the end,
    Still as I pulled, it came; and so I penned
    It down:  until it came at last to be,
    For length and breadth, the bigness which you see.

    Well, when I had thus put mine ends together,
    I shewed them others, that I might see whether
    They would condemn them, or them justify:
    And some said, Let them live; some, Let them die;
    Some said, JOHN, print it; others said, Not so;
    Some said, It might do good; others said, No.

    Now was I in a strait, and did not see
    Which was the best thing to be done by me:
    At last I thought, Since you are thus divided,
    I print it will, and so the case decided.

{3} For, thought I, some, I see, would have it done,
    Though others in that channel do not run:
    To prove, then, who advised for the best,
    Thus I thought fit to put it to the test.

    I further thought, if now I did deny
    Those that would have it, thus to gratify.
    I did not know but hinder them I might
    Of that which would to them be great delight.

    For those which were not for its coming forth,
    I said to them, Offend you I am loth,
    Yet, since your brethren pleased with it be,
    Forbear to judge till you do further see.

    If that thou wilt not read, let it alone;
    Some love the meat, some love to pick the bone.
    Yea, that I might them better palliate,
    I did too with them thus expostulate:--

{4} May I not write in such a style as this?
    In such a method, too, and yet not miss
    My end--thy good?  Why may it not be done?
    Dark clouds bring waters, when the bright bring none.
    Yea, dark or bright, if they their silver drops
    Cause to descend, the earth, by yielding crops,
    Gives praise to both, and carpeth not at either,
    But treasures up the fruit they yield together;
    Yea, so commixes both, that in her fruit
    None can distinguish this from that:  they suit
    Her well when hungry; but, if she be full,
    She spews out both, and makes their blessings null.

    You see the ways the fisherman doth take
    To catch the fish; what engines doth he make?
    Behold how he engageth all his wits;
    Also his snares, lines, angles, hooks, and nets;
    Yet fish there be, that neither hook, nor line,
    Nor snare, nor net, nor engine can make thine:
    They must be groped for, and be tickled too,
    Or they will not be catch'd, whate'er you do.

    How does the fowler seek to catch his game
    By divers means!  all which one cannot name:
    His guns, his nets, his lime-twigs, light, and bell:
    He creeps, he goes, he stands; yea, who can tell
    Of all his postures?  Yet there's none of these
    Will make him master of what fowls he please.
    Yea, he must pipe and whistle to catch this,
    Yet, if he does so, that bird he will miss.

    If that a pearl may in a toad's head dwell,
    And may be found too in an oyster-shell;
    If things that promise nothing do contain
    What better is than gold; who will disdain,
    That have an inkling of it, there to look,
    That they may find it?  Now, my little book,
    (Though void of all these paintings that may make
    It with this or the other man to take)
    Is not without those things that do excel
    What do in brave but empty notions dwell.

{5} 'Well, yet I am not fully satisfied,
    That this your book will stand, when soundly tried.'
    Why, what's the matter?  'It is dark.'  What though?
    'But it is feigned.'  What of that?  I trow?
    Some men, by feigned words, as dark as mine,
    Make truth to spangle and its rays to shine.

    'But they want solidness.'  Speak, man, thy mind.
    'They drown the weak; metaphors make us blind.'

    Solidity, indeed, becomes the pen
    Of him that writeth things divine to men;
    But must I needs want solidness, because
    By metaphors I speak?  Were not God's laws,
    His gospel laws, in olden times held forth
    By types, shadows, and metaphors?  Yet loth
    Will any sober man be to find fault
    With them, lest he be found for to assault
    The highest wisdom.  No, he rather stoops,
    And seeks to find out what by pins and loops,
    By calves and sheep, by heifers and by rams,
    By birds and herbs, and by the blood of lambs,
    God speaketh to him; and happy is he
    That finds the light and grace that in them beSome of these are so defaced and weather-worn, that in aspect they
seem even more venerable than the monuments of the founders of the
race.

Nearly all of those erected before the beginning
    of the present century bear quaint
    devices,--some of cherubs, all wings,
    and blank, staring faces; some of
    hour-glasses, some of masonic emblems, and
    upon one of two are rudely carved, ugly death's heads and crossbones.

    Two thirds of the way down the line stands
    the first marble headstone.

    It is taller than its neighbors, and,
    though spotted with weather stains, it bears a
    deeply graven inscription, which seems
    as legible as the day it was cut, full forty years ago.

    In the grave at the foot of this stone
    lies buried another Major Bugbee, the great-great-grandson
    of the first Major. The commission of this
    gentleman, signed by John Hancock, President
    of the Continental Congress, still hangs in a
    frame against the wainscot, over the mantel, in the parlor of the
great gambrel-roofed house, whose front-yard fence and garden palings
form, for almost half the way, the eastern side of the village
square.

The late master of this dwelling, Doctor Bugbee,
    who was the eldest son of the Continental
    major, lies at the end of the long
    platoon of dead, in the newest grave of all the range, over which
a marble obelisk has been erected, in memory of the name and many
virtues of the deceased, who departed this life, as the inscription
attests, on the 7th day of September, 1843, in the fifty-seventh
year of his age.

    Near by this spot, with its drooping
    boughs shading the monument I have
    just described, grows a weeping-willow tree,
    of such great size, that its top, from half
    way up, can be plainly discerned from almost every
    corner of the village green; and it is,
    withal, of such perfect symmetry of form,
    that on a moonlight night it resembles
    a fountain, as its leaves, fluttering
    in the breezy air, and turning their silver linings to the moonbeams,
seem to sparkle like spray and drops of falling water.

    Behind this tree is placed a rustic bench,
    where, on a pleasant day in June, one
    may sit and look forth upon as pretty a
    landscape as can be seen in all Hillsdale
    County, or, for that matter, in all the State as well.
    Before you lies the declivity of the hill upon which the village
stands.

    At its foot begins a verdant plain of
    interval meadows, dotted here and there
    with graceful elms and stately hickories,
    each standing alone in its ring of shadow,
    the turf everywhere bespangled with dandelions
    and buttercups, and changing its hue from shade to shade of vivid
green, as the wind sweeps over the thick growing verdure.

Through these meadows flows a sluggish brook,
    in broad meandering curves, crossed
    at each turn by rustic farm-bridges, with
    clumps of trees fringing the deeper
    pools. The plain is skirted by a
    country road, bordered with majestic trees,
    and with farm-houses standing all along
    its winding course. Beyond, the land rises,
    and the slope is checkered, to the foot of
    the hills, with arable fields.
    The view is bounded by the craggy sides
    of the great hills which separate this quiet vale from the broad
valley of the Connecticut.

    Here, all is soft and tranquil beauty. But just
    beyond the rugged barrier of those western
    hills lies a grander landscape, of wide
    extent, through which flows New England's
    greatest river, and crossed from end to
    end by New England's busiest thoroughfares,
    dusty with the tread of commerce, and bordered
    with growing cities and thrifty, bustling towns.
    Here, reclining on this rustic bench, in
    the shadow of the willow branches, among the tombstones of the
silent dead, you may dream away the sultry afternoon, and hear no
sounds but drowsy noises that dispose to rest and quiet; the
whispering of the wind in the treetops, the droning pipe of
grasshoppers and locusts, the distant cries of teamsters to their
cattle, the shouts of children loitering home from school or gathering
berries in the sunny fields, the whetting of a scythe in a far-off
meadow, or the music of the blacksmith's hammer upon his ringing
anvil.

    Four times a year, during the brief terms
    of court, the usual stillness that pervades the
    sober village is enlivened by the presence
    of a scanty crowd. Then, for a week, judges,
    jurors, suitors, and witnesses flock together;
    and sometimes, in the winter season, when
    farm work is not pressing, the
    neighbors throng by scores into the
    court-house, to hear the wordy harangues
    of the lawyers in some notable cause.

    Likewise on town-meeting days, the stores and
    tavern bar-rooms about the square are
    filled with a concourse of the sovereign people
    from the more rural districts; and at the
    annual cattle show and fair all Hillsdale
    comes up to Belfield.

Then, I warrant you, if it chance to be a pleasant
    Indian-summer day, there is indeed a crowd,
    and for a while the little capital
    contains a greater number of living souls than all the county
besides.

    From early twilight till sunset blazes on
    the western hills the square and street
    are densely thronged. A Babel of strange
    noises fills the dusty air: the lowing
    of cows and oxen; the bellowing of frightened
    calves; the plaintive bleating of bewildered lambs; the fierce
neighing of excited horses; the yelping of curs; the crowing of
imprisoned cocks, responding to each other's defiant notes; the
sing-song clamor of itinerant auctioneers, standing on their wagons
and displaying their tempting wares to the little knots around them;
the din and hubbub of the busy, moving, talking, jostling
multitude,--shouts, laughs, cries, murmurs, all mingled together,
till confusion harmonizes; and above all, the constant clanking of
the iron handle of the old town-pump, which never ceases all the
livelong day.

    At nightfall the uproar lessens, and as the
    evening wanes, the unaccustomed sounds
    diminish, though till midnight, ever and
    anon, the tired and sleepy citizens are
    startled from their dreams by whoops, hurrahs,
    snatches of songs, and outbursts of rude laughter ringing through
the frosty air and mingling with the clattering of horses' feet and
the whirring rumble of swift-revolving wheels, as some party of
roystering blades, excited by deep potations, drive shouting homewards
from the village inns.

    Excepting on these unfrequent occasions,
    Belfield Green is as free from bustle as
    if it were a hamlet whose name was
    never seen upon a map. The time has been,
    however, when it was a busy little mart, the
    centre of trade for an extensive district. In
    yonder low-roofed store that stands upon the square,
    near by the great gambrel-roofed house
    of which mention has already been made, the second
    Major Bugbee increased a handsome patrimony till
    it grew to be a great estate; the share of which
    that fell to his two eldest sons, the Doctor
    and his younger brother, James, they in time,
    by gainful traffic in the same old place,
    made more than equal to the entire estate, of which a
    quarter only came to them.

    Thousands and tens of thousands of tons of golden
    butter and cheese, hundreds of thousands of bushels of rye, oats,
flaxseed, buckwheat, and corn, millions of eggs and skeins of linen
and woollen yarn have been bartered at Belfield Green by the country
folks, in exchange for rum, molasses, tea, coffee, salt, and codfish,
enough to freight the royal navy.

Time was when folks came twenty miles to Belfield post-office, and
when a dusty miller and his men, at the old red mill standing on
the brook at the foot of the valley, took toll from half the grists
in Hillsdale County.

But that was long ago, when people who lived twenty miles away from
Hartford went to the city scarcely twice in a dozen years,--in the
good old days of turnpikes, stage-coaches, and wayside taverns,
before railroads were built to carry all the trade to great, overgrown
towns and cities.

Now-a-days, as I have said, it is hard to find a village of its
size and rank in all the land, which is more quiet, at ordinary
times, than Belfield Green.

CHAPTER II.

Every community has its quota of great men; and in this respect
a country village is often, in proportion to its numbers, as well
endowed as the capital itself. So Belfield has her magnates whom
she delights to honor.
Chief among them used to be numbered the late Doctor John Bugbee,
a worthy gentleman, now gathered to his fathers in the ancient
burying-ground behind the meeting-house. He was not, to be sure,
esteemed by all, especially the women, to be so great a man as the
Reverend Jabez Jaynes, A.M., who, by virtue of his sacred office
and academical honors, took formal precedence of every mere layman
in the parish.

But with this notable exception, Doctor Bugbee was the peer of every
other dignitary, whether civil, military, or ecclesiastical, within
the borders of the town.

But when I say the Doctor was a great man in Belfield, I do not
mean to aver, or to be understood, that, in person, he was of
colossal bulk or stature; neither is it true that his intellect
was of a quality so far superior to the average of human minds
as to make him a giant in that respect. It would be great presumption
in so humble a penman as myself to choose, even for the hero
of my tale, a man of eminent distinction. So I make haste to
confess, that, doubtless, there were at least a score or two of
his fellow-townsmen as well endowed by nature as the Doctor. But
above many of these persons he was elevated by accidental
circumstances and acquired advantages to a position which
rendered him a man of greater mark and influence than they. He was
descended from a most reputable ancestry, and, being a professional
man, of polite address and handsome fortune, it would have been
strange indeed, if he had not been highly esteemed in the community
where he dwelt. Besides, he was a man of sense and taste, witty,
jovial, talkative, and of such extremely easy good-nature, that,
if it had not been for the tact and shrewdness of his brother
and partner in trade, who managed the business of the firm, the
Doctor's income would have diminished, instead of increasing,
as it did, year after year. As it was, his practice as a physician
scarcely paid for his horsekeeping and the medicines he dispensed,
though for a while he was a favorite physician in all that region;
growing in the good-will of the people, until, as a mark of their
esteem, he received a nomination to the General Assembly.

At first there was such an outcry of dismay from the old ladies
of the parish, that the Democrats came near defeating him,
though the Whigs had a sure majority for every other name on the
ticket.

But having triumphed over this outburst of stubborn opposition,
the Doctor speedily became the most popular politician in the
county, if frequent election to office was a true test of
public favor. For it turned out, that, instead of the mortality
happening, which the Democrats, and their allies, the old women,
had predicted would prevail, there never had been known a healthier
season within the memory of man.

And always afterwards, whenever the worthy Doctor was chosen to
represent the town at Hartford or New Haven, there seemed to be
a special interposition of providential mercy, inasmuch as in all his
professional round, none ever sickened unto death during his
absence; though it sometimes happened that the population of the
town would be increased by one or two.

In course of time, therefore, his fame as a statesman even
rivalled his reputation as physician, and all parties were brought
to join in voting for him with the most cordial unanimity.

In his youth the Doctor had been reckoned a handsome young fellow,
and, to the day of his death, he preserved his good looks to a
wonderful degree. A cheerful temper like his is a famous preventive
of gray hairs and wrinkles.
So the jovial Doctor never seemed to grow old; and at fifty, his
erect form, smooth, ruddy cheeks, curly brown poll, and merry blue
eyes made him look younger than many of his neighbors who were his
juniors by a dozen years.

When a very young man, not quite twenty years of age, and before
he had finished his course of professional study, the Doctor had
taken to wife his cousin, Miss Naomi Bugbee, who had lived in his
father's house ever since he could remember; for the young lady
was an orphan, with a good estate, and during her minority had been
her uncle's ward.

The bride was not an uncomely damsel, neither was she
distinguished for beauty; and between the ages of the happy young
couple there was quite a difference; a circumstance by no means
unusual, and which would not have been mentioned here, but for the
fact, that, in this case, it was the bride who was the senior
of the pair. Some people said she was ten years older than the
Doctor; and, for a wonder, these gossips had the evidence of the
registry to back their statements. In fact, the youthful bridegroom
had been very tenderly dry-nursed, in his infancy, by his bride;
and a certain sound spanking which she gave him when he was just
coming four, because he insisted upon crying and keeping awake, one
evening, while his mother was gone to a wedding, instead of going
to sleep in his trundle-bed like a good boy,--this chastisement, I
say, had been one of the earliest and most vivid of the bridegroom's
recollections of his childhood.

But though he had not forgotten this grievance, he had doubtless
forgiven it with all his heart; thereby setting an example worthy
of imitation by the fair Naomi, who, indeed, was doubly bound to
exercise forgiveness and forbearance towards her lord; for, whatever
might have been the faults and failings of the youth to whom she
surrendered the ripened harvest of her charms, it certainly did not
lie in the mouth of one to complain of them unduly, who had enjoyed
such rare and excellent opportunities to train up for herself a
husband in the way he should go.

There was not wanting at that time in Belfield a class of spiteful
people, who, doubtless, being inspired by envy at beholding the
felicity of the happy pair, affected to laugh and sneer a good deal
at what they jeeringly called Jack Bugbee's marrying his grandmother.
But, as if it had been specially ordered on purpose to confound
these ill-natured jokers, this union, the object of their ridicule,
was most signally prospered, and in due time the Doctor himself put
his wife to bed with a pair of nice little girls.

Not long after, the twins were christened at the meeting-house,
a great crowd attending to witness the ceremony. To the elder
girl was given the name of Amelia. Upon the other was bestowed the
equally desirable appellative of Cornelia. While they were babies,
both were considered remarkably pretty children; at least, so
everybody told Mrs. Bugbee; but as they grew in years and stature,
it became more and more apparent, that, although each resembled
the other in figure, features, and expression, so strongly that you
could not see one without being reminded of the other, none would
ever be at a loss to distinguish between them; for Amelia promised
to be as extremely handsome as her sister seemed likely to be
homely. Indeed, Amelia was a beautiful counterpart of Cornelia,
resembling her in the same wise that a flattered portrait,
painted by some shrewd and skilful limner, will sometimes resemble
the rich and ugly original, in which, while the likeness is faithfully
portrayed, all the harsh lines are softened, and even blemishes are
transformed into beauty-spots, or made to serve as foils.

Besides these twins, other children, from time to time, were born
to the Doctor and his spouse, all of whom died in infancy.

The love of the parents for their first-born seemed to redouble at
each of these bereavements. The mother, especially, would scarcely
suffer her darlings to be absent from her sight; and when, at
last, after infinite persuasion, she was induced to let them go
to the Misses Primber's great boarding-school at Hartford, she
used to ride over to see them as often as she could invent a
pretext.

It was with the greatest reluctance that she consented to this
separation; but in those days it was indispensable that a young
woman of good family should spend at least a twelve-month at the
Misses Primber's famous establishment, where all the rough hewing
of less skilful teachers was shaped and polished, so to speak,
according to the most fashionable models then in vogue.

It was while the twins remained at this notable seminary that they
executed those wonderful landscapes, in Reeves's best water-colors,
which used to decorate the walls of the parlors in the Bugbee
mansion, and which, I dare say, still hang in tarnished gilt frames
in some of the bedchambers.

It was there they filled the copybooks of French exercises from
Levizac's Grammar, which Miss Cornelia still carefully preserves
in a bureau drawer.

There they learned to play and sing "Days of Absence," "I'm A Merry
Swiss Boy," and many other delightful melodies, the which, even
now, Miss Cornelia will sometimes hum softly to herself.

Besides acquiring these and sundry other accomplishments, Miss
Amelia found time to carry on a secret epistolary correspondence
with a good-looking young law-student, (of whom more extended
mention will presently be made,) and also to contrive many
meetings and walks with him, of which nobody was cognizant but her
sister and some five or six other bosom friends and faithful
confidants.

But Miss Cornelia, though as well inclined thereto as her sister,
having, nevertheless, been able to find no lover to occupy her
thoughts, and with whom to hold amatory interviews to fill her
leisure, was fain to devote all her spare moments to the reading
of romances and novels, of which, though rigorously interdicted, a
great number were in the house, in possession of the Misses Primber's
pupils; and when this supply was exhausted, she had recourse to a
circulating library near by; being often put as nearly to her wits'
end to devise expedients whereby to smuggle the contraband volumes
into her chamber, as Amelia was to fulfil, at the time and place
of tryst, the frequent engagements which she made to meet her lover.

[Isa. 35:3,4] His labourers also have, by the direction
of His Majesty's surveyors, been for above these sixteen hundred
years employed about this patch of ground, if perhaps it might have
been mended:  yea, and to my knowledge, said he, here have been
swallowed up at least twenty thousand cart-loads, yea, millions of
wholesome instructions, that have at all seasons been brought from
all places of the King's dominions, and they that can tell, say
they are the best materials to make good ground of the place; if
so be, it might have been mended, but it is the Slough of Despond
still, and so will be when they have done what they can.

{35} True, there are, by the direction of the Law-giver, certain
good and substantial steps, placed even through the very midst of
this slough; but at such time as this place doth much spew out its
filth, as it doth against change of weather, these steps are hardly
seen; or, if they be, men, through the dizziness of their heads,
step beside, and then they are bemired to purpose, notwithstanding
the steps be there; but the ground is good when they are once got
in at the gate.  [1 Sam. 12:23]

{36} Now, I saw in my dream, that by this time Pliable was got home
to his house again, so that his neighbours came to visit him; and
some of them called him wise man for coming back, and some called
him fool for hazarding himself with Christian:  others again did mock
at his cowardliness; saying, Surely, since you began to venture, I
would not have been so base to have given out for a few difficulties.
So Pliable sat sneaking among them.  But at last he got more
confidence, and then they all turned their tales, and began to
deride poor Christian behind his back.  And thus much concerning
Pliable.

{37} Now, as Christian was walking solitarily by himself, he espied
one afar off, come crossing over the field to meet him; and their
hap was to meet just as they were crossing the way of each other.
The gentleman's name that met him was Mr. Worldly Wiseman, he dwelt
in the town of Carnal Policy, a very great town, and also hard by
from whence Christian came.  This man, then, meeting with Christian,
and having some inkling of him,--for Christian's setting forth
from the City of Destruction was much noised abroad, not only in
the town where he dwelt, but also it began to be the town talk in
some other places,--Mr. Worldly Wiseman, therefore, having some
guess of him, by beholding his laborious going, by observing his
sighs and groans, and the like, began thus to enter into some talk
with Christian.

{38} WORLD. How now, good fellow, whither away after this burdened
manner?

CHR. A burdened manner, indeed, as ever, I think, poor creature
had!  And whereas you ask me, Whither away?  I tell you, Sir, I am
going to yonder wicket-gate before me; for there, as I am informed,
I shall be put into a way to be rid of my heavy burden.

WORLD. Hast thou a wife and children?

CHR. Yes; but I am so laden with this burden that I cannot take
that pleasure in them as formerly; methinks I am as if I had none.
[1 Cor 7:29]

WORLD. Wilt thou hearken unto me if I give thee counsel?

CHR. If it be good, I will; for I stand in need of good counsel.

{39} WORLD. I would advise thee, then, that thou with all speed get
thyself rid of thy burden; for thou wilt never be settled in thy
mind till then; nor canst thou enjoy the benefits of the blessing
which God hath bestowed upon thee till then.

CHR. That is that which I seek for, even to be rid of this heavy
burden; but get it off myself, I cannot; nor is there any man in
our country that can take it off my shoulders; therefore am I going
this way, as I told you, that I may be rid of my burden.

WORLD. Who bid thee go this way to be rid of thy burden?

CHR. A man that appeared to me to be a very great and honourable
person; his name, as I remember, is Evangelist.

{40} WORLD. I beshrew him for his counsel!  there is not a more
dangerous and troublesome way in the world than is that unto which
he hath directed thee; and that thou shalt find, if thou wilt be
ruled by his counsel.  Thou hast met with something, as I perceive,
already; for I see the dirt of the Slough of Despond is upon thee;
but that slough is the beginning of the sorrows that do attend
those that go on in that way.  Hear me, I am older than thou; thou
art like to meet with, in the way which thou goest, wearisomeness,
painfulness, hunger, perils, nakedness, sword, lions, dragons,
darkness, and, in a word, death, and what not!  These things are
certainly true, having been confirmed by many testimonies.  And why
should a man so carelessly cast away himself, by giving heed to a
stranger?

CHR. Why, Sir, this burden upon my back is more terrible to me than
all these things which you have mentioned; nay, methinks I care
not what I meet with in the way, if so be I can also meet with
deliverance from my burden.

{41} WORLD. How camest thou by the burden at first?

CHR. By reading this book in my hand.

WORLD. I thought so; and it is happened unto thee as to other weak
men, who, meddling with things too high for them, do suddenly fall
into thy distractions; which distractions do not only unman men, as
thine, I perceive, have done thee, but they run them upon desperate
ventures to obtain they know not what.

CHR. I know what I would obtain; it is ease for my heavy burden.

{42} WORLD. But why wilt thou seek for ease this way, seeing so
many dangers attend it?  especially since, hadst thou but patience
to hear me, I could direct thee to the obtaining of what thou desirest,
without the dangers that thou in this way wilt run thyself into;
yea, and the remedy is at hand.  Besides, I will add, that instead
of those dangers, thou shalt meet with much safety, friendship,
and content.

CHR. Pray, Sir, open this secret to me.

{43} WORLD. Why, in yonder village--the village is named Morality--
there dwells a gentleman whose name is Legality, a very judicious
man, and a man of very good name, that has skill to help men
off with such burdens as thine are from their shoulders:  yea, to
my knowledge, he hath done a great deal of good this way; ay, and
besides, he hath skill to cure those that are somewhat crazed in
their wits with their burdens.  To him, as I said, thou mayest go,
and be helped presently.  His house is not quite a mile from this
place, and if he should not be at home himself, he hath a pretty
young man to his son, whose name is Civility, that can do it (to
speak on) as well as the old gentleman himself; there, I say, thou
mayest be eased of thy burden; and if thou art not minded to go
back to thy former habitation, as, indeed, I would not wish thee,
thou mayest send for thy wife and children to thee to this village,
where there are houses now stand empty, one of which thou mayest
have at reasonable rates; provision is there also cheap and good;
and that which will make thy life the more happy is, to be sure,
there thou shalt live by honest neighbours, in credit and good
fashion.

{44} Now was Christian somewhat at a stand; but presently he concluded,
if this be true, which this gentleman hath said, my wisest course
is to take his advice; and with that he thus further spoke.

{45} CHR. Sir, which is my way to this honest man's house?

WORLD. Do you see yonder hill?

CHR. Yes, very well.

WORLD. By that hill you must go, and the first house you come at
is his.

{46} So Christian turned out of his way to go to Mr. Legality's
house for help; but, behold, when he was got now hard by the hill,
it seemed so high, and also that side of it that was next the
wayside did hang so much over, that Christian was afraid to venture
further, lest the hill should fall on his head; wherefore there he
stood still and wotted not what to do.  Also his burden now seemed
heavier to him than while he was in his way.  There came also
flashes of fire out of the hill, that made Christian afraid that
he should be burned.  [Ex. 19:16, 18] Here, therefore, he sweat
and did quake for fear.  [Heb. 12:21]

When Christians unto carnal men give ear, Out of their way they
go, and pay for 't dear; For Master Worldly Wiseman can but shew
A saint the way to bondage and to woe.

{47} And now he began to be sorry that he had taken Mr. Worldly
Wiseman's counsel.  And with that he saw Evangelist coming to meet
him; at the sight also of whom he began to blush for shame.  So
Evangelist drew nearer and nearer; and coming up to him, he looked
upon him with a severe and dreadful countenance, and thus began to
reason with Christian.

{48} EVAN. What dost thou here, Christian?  said he:  at which
words Christian knew not what to answer; wherefore at present he
stood speechless before him.  Then said Evangelist further, Art not
thou the man that I found crying without the walls of the City of
Destruction?

CHR. Yes, dear Sir, I am the man.

EVAN. Did not I direct thee the way to the little wicket-gate?

CHR. Yes, dear Sir, said Christian.

EVAN. How is it, then, that thou art so quickly turned aside?  for
thou art now out of the way.

{49} CHR. I met with a gentleman so soon as I had got over the
Slough of Despond, who persuaded me that I might, in the village
before me, find a man that would take off my burden.

EVAN. What was he?

CHR. He looked like a gentleman, and talked much to me, and got me
at last to yield; so I came hither; but when I beheld this hill, and
how it hangs over the way, I suddenly made a stand lest it should
fall on my head.

EVAN. What said that gentleman to you?

CHR. Why, he asked me whither I was going, and I told him.

EVAN. And what said he then?

CHR. He asked me if I had a family?  And I told him.  But, said I,
I am so loaden with the burden that is on my back, that I cannot
take pleasure in them as formerly.

EVAN. And what said he then?

{50} CHR. He bid me with speed get rid of my burden; and I told him
that it was ease that I sought.  And said I, I am therefore going
to yonder gate, to receive further direction how I may get to the
place of deliverance.  So he said that he would shew me a better
way, and short, not so attended with difficulties as the way,
Sir, that you set me in; which way, said he, will direct you to
a gentleman's house that hath skill to take off these burdens, so
I believed him, and turned out of that way into this, if haply I
might be soon eased of my burden.  But when I came to this place,
and beheld things as they are, I stopped for fear (as I said) of
danger:  but I now know not what to do.

{51} EVAN. Then, said Evangelist, stand still a little, that I
may show thee the words of God.  So he stood trembling.  Then said
Evangelist, "See that ye refuse not him that speaketh.  For if they
escaped not who refused him that spake on earth, much more shall
not we escape, if we turn away from him that speaketh from heaven."
[Heb. 12:25] He said, moreover, "Now the just shall live by faith:
but if any man draw back, my soul shall have no pleasure in him."
[Heb. 10:38] He also did thus apply them:  Thou art the man that
art running into this misery; thou hast begun to reject the counsel
of the Most High, and to draw back thy foot from the way of peace,
even almost to the hazarding of thy perdition.

{52} Then Christian fell down at his feet as dead, crying, "Woe
is me, for I am undone!"  At the sight of which Evangelist caught
him by the right hand, saying, "All manner of sin and blasphemies
shall be forgiven unto men."  [Matt. 12:31, Mark 3:28] "Be not
faithless, but believing."  [John 20:27] Then did Christian again a
little revive, and stood up trembling, as at first, before Evangelist.

{53} Then Evangelist proceeded, saying, Give more earnest heed to
the things that I shall tell thee of.  I will now show thee who it
was that deluded thee, and who it was also to whom he sent thee.
--The man that met thee is one Worldly Wiseman, and rightly is he
so called; partly, because he savoureth only the doctrine of this
world, [1 John 4:5] (therefore he always goes to the town of Morality
to church):  and partly because he loveth that doctrine best, for
it saveth him best from the cross.  [Gal 6:12] And because he is
of this carnal temper, therefore he seeketh to pervert my ways,
though right.  Now there are three things in this man's counsel,
that thou must utterly abhor.

1.  His turning thee out of the way.  2.  His labouring to render
the cross odious to thee.  And, 3.  His setting thy feet in that
way that leadeth unto the administration of death.

{54} First, Thou must abhor his turning thee out of the way; and
thine own consenting thereunto:  because this is to reject the
counsel of God for the sake of the counsel of a Worldly Wiseman.
The Lord says, "Strive to enter in at the strait gate" [Luke 13:24],
the gate to which I sent thee; for "strait is the gate that leadeth
unto life, and few there be that find it."  [Matt. 7:14] From this
little wicket-gate, and from the way thereto, hath this wicked man
turned thee, to the bringing of thee almost to destruction; hate,
therefore, his turning thee out of the way, and abhor thyself for
hearkening to him.

{55} Secondly, Thou must abhor his labouring to render the cross
odious unto thee; for thou art to prefer it "before the treasures
in Egypt."  [Heb. 11:25,26] Besides the King of glory hath told
thee, that he that "will save his life shall lose it."  [Mark 8:35;
John 12:25; Matt. 10:39] And, "He that cometh after me, and hateth
not his father, and mother, and wife, and children, and brethren,
and sisters, yea, and his own life also, he cannot be my disciple."
[Luke 14:26] I say, therefore, for man to labour to persuade thee,
that that shall be thy death, without which, THE TRUTH hath said,
thou canst not have eternal life; this doctrine thou must abhor.

{56} Thirdly, Thou must hate his setting of thy feet in the way
that leadeth to the ministration of death.  And for this thou must
consider to whom he sent thee, and also how unable that person was
to deliver thee from thy burden.

{57} He to whom thou wast sent for ease, being by name Legality,
is the son of the bond-woman which now is, and is in bondage with
her children [Gal 4:21-27]; and is, in a mystery, this Mount Sinai,
which thou hast feared will fall on thy head.  Now, if she, with
her children, are in bondage, how canst thou expect by them to be
made free?  This Legality, therefore, is not able to set thee free
from thy burden.  No man was as yet ever rid of his burden by him;
no, nor ever is like to be:  ye cannot be justified by the works
of the law; for by the deeds of the law no man living can be rid
of his burden:  therefore, Mr. Worldly Wiseman is an alien, and
Mr. Legality is a cheat; and for his son Civility, notwithstanding
his simpering looks, he is but a hypocrite and cannot help thee.
Believe me, there is nothing in all this noise, that thou hast
heard of these sottish men, but a design to beguile thee of thy
salvation, by turning thee from the way in which I had set thee.
After this, Evangelist called aloud to the heavens for confirmation
of what he had said:  and with that there came words and fire out
of the mountain under which poor Christian stood, that made the
hair of his flesh stand up.  The words were thus pronounced:  'As
many as are of the works of the law are under the curse; for it
is written, Cursed is every one that continueth not in all things
which are written in the book of the law to do them.'  [Gal. 3:10]

{58} Now Christian looked for nothing but death, and began to cry
out lamentably; even cursing the time in which he met with Mr. Worldly
Wiseman; still calling himself a thousand fools for hearkening
to his counsel; he also was greatly ashamed to think that this
gentleman's arguments, flowing only from the flesh, should have
the prevalency with him as to cause him to forsake the right way.
This done, he applied himself again to Evangelist in words and
sense as follow:

{59} CHR. Sir, what think you?  Is there hope?  May I now go back
and go up to the wicket-gate?  Shall I not be abandoned for this,
and sent back from thence ashamed?  I am sorry I have hearkened to
this man's counsel.  But may my sin be forgiven?

EVAN. Then said Evangelist to him, Thy sin is very great, for by
it thou hast committed two evils:  thou hast forsaken the way that
is good, to tread in forbidden paths; yet will the man at the gate
receive thee, for he has goodwill for men; only, said he, take heed
that thou turn not aside again, 'lest thou perish from the way,
when his wrath is kindled but a little.'  [Ps. 2:12] Then did
Christian address himself to go back; and Evangelist, after he had
kissed him, gave him one smile, and bid him God-speed.  So he went
on with haste, neither spake he to any man by the way; nor, if any
asked him, would he vouchsafe them an answer.  He went like one
that was all the while treading on forbidden ground, and could by
no means think himself safe, till again he was got into the way
which he left, to follow Mr. Worldly Wiseman's counsel.  So, in
process of time, Christian got up to the gate.  Now, over the gate
there was written, 'Knock, and it shall be opened unto you.'  [Matt
7:8]


{60} "He that will enter in must first without
     Stand knocking at the Gate, nor need he doubt
     That is A KNOCKER but to enter in;
     For God can love him, and forgive his sin."


He knocked, therefore, more than once or twice, saying--

  "May I now enter here?  Will he within
  Open to sorry me, though I have been
  An undeserving rebel?  Then shall I
  Not fail to sing his lasting praise on high."


At last there came a grave person to the gate, named Good-will, who
asked who was there?  and whence he came?  and what he would have?

{61} CHR. Here is a poor burdened sinner.  I come from the City of
Destruction, but am going to Mount Zion, that I may be delivered
from the wrath to come.  I would therefore, Sir, since I am informed
that by this gate is the way thither, know if you are willing to
let me in?

GOOD-WILL. I am willing with all my heart, said he; and with that
he opened the gate.

{62} So when Christian was stepping in, the other gave him a
pull.  Then said Christian, What means that?  The other told him.
it was full of gold and jewels.

16. "Woe is me!" cried the poor fellow; "had it been dates my life
would have been saved."

[Illustration: {An Arab dying of thirst in the desert}]
17. This little story shows you that on the desert dates may sometimes
be worth much more than gold and jewels.

I hope you are well and happy.--Your loving FATHER.

* * * * *
10.

A LETTER FROM INDIA.

1. MY DEAR CHILDREN,--Hurrah!

I am on shore again, after nine long days at sea. Yesterday I
reached Bombay, the chief seaport of India.

2.

Soon after I landed a friend came to see me at my hotel. He drove
me round Bombay, and showed me all the sights.

I wish you had been with me to see them.

3.

Here in Bombay I seem to be in a new world altogether.

It is a world of wonderful light and colour. The bright hot sun floods
the streets and dazzles my eyes. Everywhere I see bright colour--in
the sky, the trees, the flowers, and the dresses of the people.

4. The streets are always full of people. They are dark brown in
colour; their hair is black, their eyes are bright, and their
teeth are as white as pearls.

Most of the people are bare-legged and bare-footed.

[Illustration: {Busy Bombay street scene}]

5. The men wear white clothes, with turbans and sashes of yellow,
green, or blue. Yesterday was a feast-day. In the morning I saw
thousands of the people bathing in the sea. Afterwards they roamed
about the streets in their best clothes. One crowd that I saw looked
like a great tulip garden in full bloom.

6. The women wear a garment of red, blue, or some other bright
colour.
This garment covers them from the neck to the knee.

Almost every woman wears rings of silver on her arms and ankles. Some
of them have great rings in their noses, as well as rings in
their ears and on their toes.

7. You would be amused to see the people carrying their burdens on
their heads.

Yesterday I saw a dozen men carrying a grand piano on their
heads.

8. From childhood the women carry jars of water or baskets of
earth in this way. They hold themselves very upright and walk like
queens.

[Illustration: {Woman carrying a basket on her head}]
9. Bombay is a very busy city. The streets are thronged with
carriages, motor cars, bullock carts, and electric trams. As the
people walk in the middle of the road, it is not easy for a carriage
to make its way through the streets.

10. The drivers ring bells, or shout to warn the people: "Hi, you
woman with the baby on your hip, get out of the way!

--Hi, you man with the box on your head, get out of the way!"
11. I think you would like to see the bullock carts.

They are very small, and are drawn by two bullocks with humps on
their shoulders. The driver sits on the shaft and steers them with
a stick. These carts carry cotton to the mills or to the
docks.

[Illustration: {A bullock cart}]
12. In some of the carriages and motor cars you may see rich men
wearing fine silk robes. Many of these rich men now dress as we
do, except that they wear turbans instead of hats

.

* * * * *

11. IN THE STREETS.

1. I should like you to see the shops of Bombay. Most of them are
quite unlike our British shops. They have no doors and no windows,
but are open to the street.

2. Our shopkeepers try to make a fine show of their goods. The
Indian shopkeeper does nothing of the sort.

He simply piles his goods round his shop and squats in the midst of
them. There he sits waiting for people to come and buy.
[Illustration: {An Indian shopkeeper}]
3. In our shops there is a fixed price for the goods. In India
nothing has a fixed price. You must bargain with the shopkeeper if
you wish to buy anything. Very likely he will ask you three times
the price which he hopes to get.
4. Our penny is divided into four parts; each of these parts is
called a farthing. The Indian penny is divided into twelve parts;
each of these parts is called a "pie." An Indian boy or girl can
buy rice or sweets with one pie.
5. There are thousands of beggars in India. They go to and fro in
front of the shops begging. The shopkeepers are very kind to them,
and never send them away without a present.
6. Very good order is kept in the streets. At every street corner
stands a native policeman, dressed in blue, with a flat yellow cap
on his head and a club by his side. Some of the policemen ride
horses, and carry guns and lances.
[Illustration: {An Indian policeman}]
7. The parks of Bombay are large open spaces covered with grass.
Round them are rows of palm trees. In these parks you may see men
and boys playing all sorts of games.
8. Indians are very fond of cricket, which they play very well. Not
many years ago an Indian prince was one of the best players in
England.
9. Polo is also played in the parks of Bombay. It is an Indian game,
but Britons now play it too. Polo is just hockey on horseback.
10. The players ride ponies which are very quick and nimble. Each
player carries a mallet with a very long handle.So he called for the
master of the house, who, after a little time, came to Christian,
and asked him what he would have.

CHR. Sir, said Christian, I am a man that am come from the City
of Destruction, and am going to the Mount Zion; and I was told by
the man that stands at the gate, at the head of this way, that if
I called here, you would show me excellent things, such as would
be a help to me in my journey.

{72} INTER. Then said the Interpreter, Come in; I will show that
which will be profitable to thee.  So he commanded his man to light
the candle, and bid Christian follow him:  so he had him into
a private room, and bid his man open a door; the which when he
had done, Christian saw the picture of a very grave person hang
up against the wall; and this was the fashion of it.  It had eyes
lifted up to heaven, the best of books in his hand, the law of
truth was written upon his lips, the world was behind his back.
It stood as if it pleaded with men, and a crown of gold did hang
over his head.

CHR. Then said Christian, What meaneth this?

{73} INTER. The man whose picture this is, is one of a thousand; he
can beget children [1 Cor. 4:15], travail in birth with children
[Gal. 4:19], and nurse them himself when they are born.  And whereas
thou seest him with his eyes lift up to heaven, the best of books
in his hand, and the law of truth writ on his lips, it is to show
thee that his work is to know and unfold dark things to sinners;
even as also thou seest him stand as if he pleaded with men:  and
whereas thou seest the world as cast behind him, and that a crown
hangs over his head, that is to show thee that slighting and
despising the things that are present, for the love that he hath
to his Master's service, he is sure in the world that comes next
to have glory for his reward.  Now, said the Interpreter, I have
showed thee this picture first, because the man whose picture this
is, is the only man whom the Lord of the place whither thou art
going, hath authorised to be thy guide in all difficult places thou
mayest meet with in the way; wherefore, take good heed to what I
have shewed thee, and bear well in thy mind what thou hast seen,
lest in thy journey thou meet with some that pretend to lead thee
right, but their way goes down to death.

{74} Then he took him by the hand, and led him into a very large
parlour that was full of dust, because never swept; the which after
he had reviewed a little while, the Interpreter called for a man to
sweep.  Now, when he began to sweep, the dust began so abundantly
to fly about, that Christian had almost therewith been choked.
Then said the Interpreter to a damsel that stood by, Bring hither
the water, and sprinkle the room; the which, when she had done, it
was swept and cleansed with pleasure.

{75} CHR. Then said Christian, What means this?

INTER. The Interpreter answered, This parlour is the heart of
a man that was never sanctified by the sweet grace of the gospel;
the dust is his original sin and inward corruptions, that have defiled
the whole man.  He that began to sweep at first, is the Law; but
she that brought water, and did sprinkle it, is the Gospel.  Now,
whereas thou sawest, that so soon as the first began to sweep, the
dust did so fly about that the room by him could not be cleansed,
but that thou wast almost choked therewith; this is to shew thee,
that the law, instead of cleansing the heart (by its working) from
sin, doth revive, put strength into, and increase it in the soul,
even as it doth discover and forbid it, for it doth not give power
to subdue.  [Rom. 7:6; 1 Cor. 15:56; Rom. 5:20]

{76} Again, as thou sawest the damsel sprinkle the room with water,
upon which it was cleansed with pleasure; this is to show thee,
that when the gospel comes in the sweet and precious influences
thereof to the heart, then, I say, even as thou sawest the damsel
lay the dust by sprinkling the floor with water, so is sin vanquished
and subdued, and the soul made clean through the faith of it, and
consequently fit for the King of glory to inhabit.  [John 15:3;
Eph.  5:26; Acts 15:9; Rom. 16:25,26; John 15:13]

{77} I saw, moreover, in my dream, that the Interpreter took him
by the hand, and had him into a little room, where sat two little
children, each one in his chair.  The name of the eldest was
Passion, and the name of the other Patience.  Passion seemed to
be much discontented; but Patience was very quiet.  Then Christian
asked, What is the reason of the discontent of Passion?  The
Interpreter answered, The Governor of them would have him stay for
his best things till the beginning of the next year; but he will
have all now:  but Patience is willing to wait.

Then I saw that one came to Passion, and brought him a bag of treasure,
and poured it down at his feet, the which he took up and rejoiced
therein, and withal laughed Patience to scorn.  But I beheld but a
while, and he had lavished all away, and had nothing left him but
rags.

{78} CHR. Then said Christian to the Interpreter, Expound this
matter more fully to me.

INTER. So he said, These two lads are figures:  Passion, of the men
of this world; and Patience, of the men of that which is to come;
for as here thou seest, Passion will have all now this year, that
is to say, in this world; so are the men of this world, they must
have all their good things now, they cannot stay till next year,
that is until the next world, for their portion of good.  That
proverb, 'A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush', is of more
authority with them than are all the Divine testimonies of the
good of the world to come.  But as thou sawest that he had quickly
lavished all away, and had presently left him nothing but rags; so
will it be with all such men at the end of this world.

CHR. Then said Christian, Now I see that Patience has the best
wisdom, and that upon many accounts.  First, because he stays for
the best things.  Second, and also because he will have the glory
of his, when the other has nothing but rags.

{79} INTER. Nay, you may add another, to wit, the glory of the next
world will never wear out; but these are suddenly gone.  Therefore
Passion had not so much reason to laugh at Patience, because he had
his good things first, as Patience will have to laugh at Passion,
because he had his best things last; for first must give place to
last, because last must have his time to come; but last gives place
to nothing; for there is not another to succeed.  He, therefore,
that hath his portion first, must needs have a time to spend it;
but he that hath his portion last, must have it lastingly; therefore
it is said of Dives, "Thou in thy life-time receivedst thy good
things, and likewise Lazarus evil things; but now he is comforted,
and thou art tormented."  [Luke 16:25]

CHR. Then I perceive it is not best to covet things that are now,
but to wait for things to come.

INTER. You say the truth:  "For the things which are seen are
temporal; but the things which are not seen are eternal."  [2 Cor.
4:18] But though this be so, yet since things present and our
fleshly appetite are such near neighbours one to another; and again,
because things to come, and carnal sense, are such strangers one
to another; therefore it is, that the first of these so suddenly
fall into amity, and that distance is so continued between the
second.

{80} Then I saw in my dream that the Interpreter took Christian by
the hand, and led him into a place where was a fire burning against
a wall, and one standing by it, always casting much water upon it,
to quench it; yet did the fire burn higher and hotter.

Then said Christian, What means this?

{81} The Interpreter answered, This fire is the work of grace that
is wrought in the heart; he that casts water upon it, to extinguish
and put it out, is the Devil; but in that thou seest the fire
notwithstanding burn higher and hotter, thou shalt also see the
reason of that.  So he had him about to the backside of the wall,
where he saw a man with a vessel of oil in his hand, of the which
he did also continually cast, but secretly, into the fire.

Then said Christian, What means this?

{82} The Interpreter answered, This is Christ, who continually,
with the oil of his grace, maintains the work already begun in the
heart:  by the means of which, notwithstanding what the devil can
do, the souls of his people prove gracious still.  [2 Cor. 12:9]
And in that thou sawest that the man stood behind the wall to
maintain the fire, that is to teach thee that it is hard for the
tempted to see how this work of grace is maintained in the soul.

I saw also, that the Interpreter took him again by the hand, and
led him into a pleasant place, where was builded a stately palace,
beautiful to behold; at the sight of which Christian was greatly
delighted.  He saw also, upon the top thereof, certain persons
walking, who were clothed all in gold.

Then said Christian, May we go in thither?

{83} Then the Interpreter took him, and led him up towards the
door of the palace; and behold, at the door stood a great company
of men, as desirous to go in; but durst not.  This is styled by the
publisher "The Child's _Annual;_" we do not think reasonably so,
since instruction is suited for all times. It is a tolerably
thick volume, and contains the _Easies_ of Grammar, Geography,
Arithmetic, Natural History, Punctuation, History, Poetry, Music,
and Dancing; with outlines of Agriculture, Anatomy, Architecture,
Astronomy, Botany, and other branches of science and knowledge--a
Chronology and description of the London public buildings. The
contents, to be sure, are multifarious; but the book is we think
made of a series of books to be purchased separately. Every
page has a coloured cut of a very gay order.
Cottages have yellow roofs and pink doors; and shopkeepers are
dressed in crimson and orange. Some of the grammatical illustrations
are droll: a heavy old fellow, cross-legged, with his hands folded
on a stick is _myself_; Punch is an _active verb_; a wedding
might have illustrated the conjunction; four in hand is a preposition.
In punctuation, a child asking what o'clock it is, illustrates a
note of interrogation.

We could have supplied the editor with the Colon: a little girl who
had much difficulty in understanding its use, one day complained
that a pain in her stomach was as bad as a colon.

The pictures in Geography are not so good as they might have been;
and it would have been easy to give correct outlines of animals,
since others mislead children.

Music made easy is better, as are Steps to Dancing. The Chronology
is faulty and ill-adapted for children:
what do the little dears want to know of the sale of Cobbett's
Register, or Mr. Fletcher and Miss Dick. There are certain things
which children should know, and others which they should not hear
of.

Show them as many of the virtues of mankind as you please: prepare the
soil well, and there will be less chance of vicious weeds. Altogether
this book merits recommendation. It is nicely bound, as the Guinea
Annual folks say, partly in _Arabesque._

* * * * *

CHEAP MEDICINE.

A publisher who pays much regard to usefulness and economy in
reprints has put forth _Buchan's Domestic Medicine_ for something
less than a crown, with a supplementary "Cholera Morbus, its history,
symptoms, mode of treatment, antidotes,&c."

By the way, we have often thought Buchan's book like the Dead Sea:
you cannot fall into the latter without some of its water incrusting
on you, and you cannot read Buchan without feeling an ache.

Its popularity is founded upon the hackneyed adage "the knowledge
of a disease is half its cure."

People will pore over its sea of calamities till they almost fall
into the fire, or get scalded with the water from a kettle, and
then turn to the Index, Scalds, page 326: perhaps this is a good
plan to test the practical value of a book, as the surgeon scalded
two fingers and plunged one into turpentine and the other into
spirits of wine to test their respective services in case of a
scald.

Here too we may notice a cheap _Companion to the Family Medicine
Chest,_ with an alphabetical arrangement of Medicines, their
properties, and plain rules for taking them; with the Cholera, of
course, as a rider, and cautions respecting suspended animation and
poisons.

The little shillingsworth is in its fifteenth edition, so that many
thousand persons must have taken many million doses by its prescription,
and in some cases become their own medicine chests, with this book
as their companion

.

* * * * *

HERBERT'S COUNTRY PARSON, &c.

Readers who delight to slake their thirst for knowledge from the
deep and pure wells of our olden literature will rejoice to hear of
a cheap and elegant reprint of this beautiful little book. Perchance
some book-buyer need be told that the above is a book to live
by--an invaluable legacy of a parish priest to his brethren and
the world.

The author George Herbert, was born in 1593, near Montgomery, in
the castle that had been successively happy in the Herberts, as
Isaak Walton observes, "a family that hath been blest with men of
remarkable wisdom."

O eternity,
eternity!  how shall I grapple with the misery that I must meet
with in eternity!

INTER. Then said the Interpreter to Christian, Let this man's misery
be remembered by thee, and be an everlasting caution to thee.

CHR. Well, said Christian, this is fearful!  God help me to watch
and be sober, and to pray that I may shun the cause of this man's
misery!  Sir, is it not time for me to go on my way now?

INTER. Tarry till I shall show thee one thing more, and then thou
shalt go on thy way.

{89} So he took Christian by the hand again, and led him into
a chamber, where there was one rising out of bed; and as he put
on his raiment, he shook and trembled.  Then said Christian, Why
doth this man thus tremble?  The Interpreter then bid him tell to
Christian the reason of his so doing.  So he began and said, This
night, as I was in my sleep, I dreamed, and behold the heavens grew
exceeding black; also it thundered and lightened in most fearful
wise, that it put me into an agony; so I looked up in my dream, and
saw the clouds rack at an unusual rate, upon which I heard a great
sound of a trumpet, and saw also a man sit upon a cloud, attended
with the thousands of heaven; they were all in flaming fire:  also
the heavens were in a burning flame.  I heard then a voice saying,
"Arise, ye dead, and come to judgement"; and with that the rocks
rent, the graves opened, and the dead that were therein came forth.
Some of them were exceeding glad, and looked upward; and some
sought to hide themselves under the mountains.  [1 Cor. 15:52; 1
Thes. 4:16; Jude 14; John 5:28,29; 2 Thes. 1:7,8; Rev. 20:11-14;
Isa. 26:21; Micah 7:16,17; Ps. 95:1-3; Dan. 7:10] Then I saw the
man that sat upon the cloud open the book, and bid the world draw
near.  Yet there was, by reason of a fierce flame which issued out
and came from before him, a convenient distance betwixt him and
them, as betwixt the judge and the prisoners at the bar.  [Mal.
3:2,3; Dan. 7:9,10] I heard it also proclaimed to them that attended
on the man that sat on the cloud, Gather together the tares, the
chaff, and stubble, and cast them into the burning lake.  [Matt.
3:12; 13:30; Mal.  4:1] And with that, the bottomless pit opened,
just whereabout I stood; out of the mouth of which there came, in
an abundant manner, smoke and coals of fire, with hideous noises.
It was also said to the same persons, "Gather my wheat into
the garner."  [Luke 3:17] And with that I saw many catched up and
carried away into the clouds, but I was left behind.  [1 Thes.
4:16,17] I also sought to hide myself, but I could not, for the man
that sat upon the cloud still kept his eye upon me; my sins also
came into my mind; and my conscience did accuse me on every side.
[Rom. 3:14,15] Upon this I awaked from my sleep.

{90} CHR. But what is it that made you so afraid of this sight?

MAN. Why, I thought that the day of judgement was come, and that I
was not ready for it:  but this frighted me most, that the angels
gathered up several, and left me behind; also the pit of hell opened
her mouth just where I stood.  My conscience, too, afflicted me;
and, as I thought, the Judge had always his eye upon me, shewing
indignation in his countenance.

{91} Then said the Interpreter to Christian, Hast thou considered
all these things?

CHR. Yes, and they put me in hope and fear.

INTER. Well, keep all things so in thy mind that they may be as a
goad in thy sides, to prick thee forward in the way thou must go.
Then Christian began to gird up his loins, and to address himself
to his journey.  Then said the Interpreter, The Comforter be always
with thee, good Christian, to guide thee in the way that leads to
the City.  So Christian went on his way, saying--

"Here I have seen things rare and profitable; Things pleasant,
dreadful, things to make me stable In what I have begun to take
in hand; Then let me think on them, and understand Wherefore they
showed me were, and let me be Thankful, O good Interpreter, to
thee."

{92} Now I saw in my dream, that the highway up which Christian
was to go, was fenced on either side with a wall, and that wall
was called Salvation.  [Isa. 26:1] Up this way, therefore, did
burdened Christian run, but not without great difficulty, because
of the load on his back.

{93} He ran thus till he came at a place somewhat ascending, and
upon that place stood a cross, and a little below, in the bottom,
a sepulchre.  So I saw in my dream, that just as Christian came up
with the cross, his burden loosed from off his shoulders, and fell
from off his back, and began to tumble, and so continued to do,
till it came to the mouth of the sepulchre, where it fell in, and
I saw it no more.

{94} Then was Christian glad and lightsome, and said, with a
merry heart, "He hath given me rest by his sorrow, and life by his
death."  Then he stood still awhile to look and wonder; for it was
very surprising to him, that the sight of the cross should thus
ease him of his burden.  Lord Chief Baron Orde was on good terms
with us all, in a narrow country filled with jarring interests
and keen parties; and, though I well knew his opinion to be the
same with my own, he kept himself aloof at a very critical period
indeed, when the Douglas cause shook the sacred security of
birthright in Scotland to its foundation; a cause, which had it
happened before the Union, when there was no appeal to a British
House of Lords, would have left the great fortress of honours and
of property in ruins.

When we got home, Dr Johnson desired to see my books. He took down
Ogden's Sermons on Prayer, on which I set a very high value, having
been much edified by them, and he retired with them to his room.

He did not stay long, but soon joined us in the drawing room.

  I presented to him Mr Robert Arbuthnot,
  a relation of the celebrated Dr Arbuthnot,
  and a man of literature and taste. To him
  we were obliged for a previous recommendation,
  which secured us a very agreeable reception
  at St Andrews, and which Dr Johnson, in his
  Journey, ascribes to 'some invisible friend'.
  

Of Dr Beattie, Mr Johnson said, 'Sir, he has written like a man
conscious of the truth, and feeling his own strength. Treating your
adversary with respect, is giving him an advantage to which he
is not entitled.

The greatest part of men cannot judge of reasoning, and are impressed
by character; so that, if you allow your adversary a respectable
character, they will think, that though you differ from him, you
may be in the wrong. Sir, treating your adversary with respect,
is striking soft in a battle. And as to Hume--a man who has so much
conceit as to tell all mankind that they have been bubbled for ages,
and he is the wise man who sees better than they--a man who has
so little scrupulosity as to venture to oppose those principles
which have been thought necessary to human happiness--is he to
be surprised if another man comes and laughs at him? If he is the
great man he thinks himself, all this cannot hurt him: it is like
throwing peas against a rock.'

He added 'something much too rough', both as to Mr Hume's head and
heart, which I suppress. Violence is, in my opinion, not suitable
to the Christian cause. Besides, I always lived on good terms with
Mr Hume, though I have frankly told him, I was not clear that it was
right in me to keep company with him, 'But', said I, 'how much
better are you than your books!' He was cheerful, obliging, and
instructive; he was charitable to the poor; and many an agreeable
hour have I passed with him: I have preserved some entertaining
and interesting memoirs of him, particularly when he knew himself
to be dying, which I may some time or other communicate to the world.

I shall not, however, extol him so very highly as Dr Adam Smith
does, who says, in a letter to Mr Strahan the printer (not a
confidential letter to his friend, but a letter which is published
[Footnote: This letter, though shattered by the sharp shot of Dr
Horne of Oxford's wit, in the character of 'One of the People called
Christians', is still prefixed to Mr Home's excellent History of
England, like a poor invalid on the piquet guard, or like a list
of quack medicines sold by the same bookseller, by whom a work of
whatever nature is published; for it has no connection with his
History, let it have what it may with what are called his Philosophical
Works.

A worthy friend of mine in London was lately consulted by a lady
of quality, of most distinguished merit, what was the best History
of England for her son to read.

My friend recommended Hume's. But, upon recollecting that its usher
was a superlative panegyrick on one, who endeavoured to sap the
credit of our holy religion, he revoked his recommendation. I am
really sorry for this ostentatious alliance; because I admire The
Theory of Moral Sentiments, and value the greatest part of An Inquiry
into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations.

Why should such a writer be so forgetful of human comfort, as to
give any countenance to that dreary infidelity which would' make us
poor indeed!'] with all formality): 'Upon the whole, I have always
considered him, both in his life time and since his death, as
approaching as nearly to the idea of a perfectly wise and virtuous
man as perhaps the nature of human frailty will permit.'

Let Dr Smith consider: Was not Mr Hume blest with good health, good
spirits, good friends, a competent and increasing fortune?

And had he not also a perpetual feast of fame?
But, as a learned friend has observed to me, 'What trials did he
undergo, to prove the perfection of his virtue? Did he ever experience
any great instance of adversity?'

When I read this sentence, delivered by my old Professor of Moral
Philosophy, I could not help exclaiming with the Psalmist, 'Surely
I have now more understanding than my teachers!'

While we were talking, there came a note to me from Dr William
Robertson.

Dear Sir,

I have been expecting every day to hear from you, of Dr Johnson's
arrival. Pray, what do you know about his motions?

I long to take him by the hand. I write this from the college, where
I have only this scrap of paper. Ever yours,
W.R.
Sunday.

It pleased me to find Dr Robertson thus eager to meet Dr Johnson.
I was glad I could answer, that he was come: and I begged Dr
Robertson might be with us as soon as he could. Sir William Forbes,
Mr Scott, Mr Arbuthnot, and another gentleman dined with us.
'Come, Dr Johnson,' said I, 'it is commonly thought that our veal
in Scotland is not good.
But here is some which I believe you will like.' There was no
catching him: JOHNSON.

'Why, sir, what is commonly thought, I should take to be true. YOUR
veal may be good; but that will only be an exception to the
general opinion; not a proof against it.'
Dr Robertson, according to the custom of Edinburgh at that time,
dined in the interval between the forenoon and afternoon service,
which was then later than now; so we had not the pleasure of his
company till dinner was over, when he came and drank wine with us.
And then began some animated dialogue, of which here follows
a pretty full note.

We talked of Mr Burke. Dr Johnson said, he had great variety of
knowledge, store of imagery, copiousness of language. ROBERTSON. 'He
has wit too.' JOHNSON. 'No, sir; he never succeeds there. 'Tis low;
'tis conceit. I used to say. Burke never once made a good joke.

[Footnote: This was one of the points upon which Dr Johnson was
strangely heterodox.

For, surely, Mr Burke, with his other remarkable qualities, is
also distinguished for his wit, and for wit of all kinds too; not
merely that power of language which Pope chooses to denominate
wit.

True wit is Nature to advantage drest; What oft was thought, but
ne'er so well exprest.

but surprising allusions, brilliant sallies of vivacity, and pleasant
conceits. His speeches in Parliament are strewed with them. Take,
for instance, the variety which he has given in his wide range, yet
exact detail, when exhibiting his Reform Bill. And his conversation
abounds in wit. Let me put down a specimen. I told him, I had seen,
at a blue stocking assembly, a number of ladies sitting round a
worthy and tall friend of ours, listening to his literature. 'Ay,'
said he, 'like maids round a May-pole.' I told him, I had found a
perfect definition of human nature, as distinguished from the
animal.

  An ancient philosopher said, man was a
  'two-legged animal without feathers',
  upon which his rival sage had a cock plucked
  bare, and set him down in the school before all the
  disciples, as a 'Philosophick Man'. Dr Franklin
  said, man was 'a tool-making animal', which is very well; for no
animal but man makes a thing, by means of which he can make another
thing.

But this applies to very few of the species. My definition of man
is, 'a Cooking Animal'. The beasts have memory, judgment and all
the faculties and passions of our mind, in a certain degree; but no
beast is a cook. The trick of the monkey using the cat's paw to
roast a chestnut is only a piece of shrewd malice in that turpissima
bestia, which humbles us so sadly by its similarity to us. Man
alone can dress a good dish; and every man whatever is more
or less a cook, in seasoning what he himself eats. 'Your definition
is good,' said Mr Burke, 'and I now see the full force of the
common proverb. "There is REASON in roasting of eggs".'

When Mr Wilkes, in his days of tumultuous opposition, was borne
upon the shoulders of the mob. Mr Burke (as Mr Wilkes told me
himself, with classical admiration,) applied to him what Horace
says of Pindar, 
... numerisque fertur LEGE solutis.

Sir Joshua Reynolds, who agrees with me entirely as to Mr Burke's
fertility of wit said, that this was 'dignifying a pun'. He also
observed, that he has often heard Burke say, in the course of an
evening, ten good things, each of which would have served a noted
wit (whom he named) to live upon for a twelvemonth.

I find, since the former edition, that some persons have objected to
the instances which I have given of Mr Burke's wit, as not doing
justice to my very ingenious friend; the specimens produced having,
it is alleged, more of conceit than real wit and being merely
sportive sallies of the moment, not justifying the encomium which
they think with me, he undoubtedly merits. I was well aware, how
hazardous it was to exhibit particular instances of wit, which is
of so airy and spiritual a nature as often to elude the hand that
attempts to grasp it. The excellence and efficacy of a bon mot
depend frequently so much on the occasion on which it is spoken,
on the particular manner of the speaker, on the person of whom it
is applied, the previous introduction, and a thousand minute
particulars which cannot be easily enumerated, that it is always
dangerous to detach a witty saying from the group to which it
belongs, and to see it before the eye of the spectator, divested
of those concomitant circumstances, which gave it animation,
mellowness, and relief.

I ventured, however, at all hazards to put down the first instances
that occurred to me, as proofs of Mr Burke's lively and brilliant
fancy; but am very sensible that his numerous friends could have
suggested many of a superior quality.
Indeed, the being in company with him, for a single day, is
sufficient to shew that what I have asserted is well founded;
and it was only necessary to have appealed to all who know him
intimately, for a complete refutation of the heterodox opinion
entertained by Dr Johnson on this subject.

HE allowed Mr Burke, as the reader will find hereafter, to be a
man of consummate and unrivalled abilities in every light except
that now under consideration; and the variety of his allusions,
and splendour of his imagery, have made such an impression on ALL
THE REST of the world, that superficial observers are apt to overlook
his other merits, and to suppose that wit is his chief and most
prominent excellence; when in fact it is only one of the many talents
that he possesses, which are so various and extraordinary, that it
is very difficult to ascertain precisely the rank and value of each.]

What I most envy Burke for, is, his being constantly the same.
He is never what we call humdrum; never unwilling to begin to
talk, nor in haste to leave off.' BOSWELL. 'Yet he can listen.'
JOHNSON.
'No; I cannot say he is good at that. So desirous is he to talk,
that, if one is speaking at this end of the table, he'll speak to
somebody at the other end. Burke, sir, is such a man, that if you
met him for the first time in the street where you were stopped by
a drove of oxen, and you and he stepped aside to take shelter
but for five minutes, he'd talk to you in such a manner, that,
when you parted, you would say, this is an extraordinary man.
Now, you may be long enough with me, without finding any thing
extraordinary.' He said, he believed Burke was intended for the law;
but either had not money enough to follow it, or had not diligence
enough. He said, he could not understand how a man could apply
to one thing, and not to another.
Robertson said, one man had more judgment, another more
imagination.
JOHNSON. 'No, sir; it is only, one man has more mind than another.
He may direct it differently; he may, by accident, see the
success of one kind of study, and take a desire to excel in it.
I am persuaded that, had Sir Isaac Newton applied to poetry, he
would have made a very fine epick poem. I could as easily apply to
law as to tragick poetry.' BOSWELL. 'Yet, sir, you did apply to
tragick poetry, not to law.' JOHNSON. 'Because, sir, I had not
money to study law. Sir, the man who has vigour, may walk to the
east, just as well as to the west, if he happens to tune his head
that way.' BOSWELL. 'But, sir, 'tis like walking up and down a
hill; one man will naturally do the one better than the other.
A hare will run up a hill best, from her fore-legs being short; a
dog down.' JOHNSON. 'Nay, sir; that is from mechanical powers. If
you make mind mechanical, you may argue in that manner. One
mind is a vice, and holds fast; there's a good memory. Another
is a file; and he is a disputant, a controversialist.

Another is a razor; and he is sarcastical.' We talked of
Whitefield. He said, he was at the same college with him, and knew
him 'before he began to be better than other people' (smiling);
that he believed he sincerely meant well, but had a mixture of
politicks and ostentation: whereas Wesley thought of religion
only. [Footnote: That cannot be said now, after the flagrant part
which Mr John Wesley took against our American brethren, when,
in his own name, he threw amongst his enthusiastic flock, the very
individual combustibles of Dr Johnson's Taxation no Tyranny: and
after the intolerant spirit which he manifested against our fellow
Christians of the Roman Catholick Communion, for which that able
champion, Father O'Leary, has given him so hearty a drubbing.

But I should think myself very unworthy, if I did not at the same
time acknowledge Mr John Wesley's merit, as a veteran 'Soldier of
Jesus Christ', who has, I do believe, 'turned many from darkness
into light, and from the power of Satan to the living God'.]
Robertson said, Whitefield had strong natural eloquence, which,
if cultivated, would have done great things. JOHNSON. 'Why, sir,
I take it, he was at the height of what his abilities could do,
and was sensible of it. He had the ordinary advantages of education;
but he chose to pursue that oratory which is for the mob.' BOSWELL.
'He had great effect on the passions.' JOHNSON. 'Why, sir, I don't
think so. He could not represent a succession of pathetick images.
He vociferated, and made an impression. THERE, again, was a mind
like a hammer.' Dr Johnson now said, a certain eminent political
friend of ours was wrong, in his maxim of sticking to a certain set
of MEN on all occasions. 'I can see that a man may do right to
stick to a PARTY,' said he;' that is to say, he is a WHIG, or he is
a TORY, and he thinks one of those parties upon the whole the best,
and that to make it prevail, it must be generally supported,
though, in particulars, it may be wrong. He takes its faggot
of principles, in which there are fewer rotten sticks than in the
other, though some rotten sticks to be sure; and they cannot well
be separated. But, to bind one's self to one man, or one set of men
(who may be right to-day and wrong to-morrow), without any general
preference of system, I must disapprove.' [Footnote: If due
attention were paid to this observation, there would be more virtue,
even in politicks.

What Dr Johnson justly condemned, has, I am sorry to say, greatly
increased in the present reign. At the distance of four years
from this conversation, 21st February 1777, My Lord Archbishop
of York, in his 'Sermon before the Society for the Propagation of
the Gospel in Foreign Parts', thus indignantly describes the then
state of parties: 'Parties once had a PRINCIPLE belonging to them,
absurd perhaps, and indefensible, but still carrying a notion of
DUTY, by which honest minds might easily be caught.

'But they are now COMBINATIONS OF INDIVIDUALS, who, instead of being
the sons and servants of the community, make a league for advancing
their PRIVATE INTERESTS. It is their business to hold high the notion
of POLITICAL HONOUR. I believe and trust, it is not injurious to
say, that such a bond is no better than that by which the lowest
and wickedest combinations are held together; and that it denotes
the last stage of political depravity.'

  To find a thought, which just shewed
  itself to us from the mind of JOHNSON, thus
  appearing again at such a distance of
  time, and without any communication between them, enlarged to full
growth in the mind of MARKHAM, is a curious object of philosophical
contemplation.

That two such great and luminous minds should have been so dark in
one corner--that THEY should have held it to be 'wicked rebellion
in the British subjects established in America, to resist the
abject condition of holding all their property at the mercy of British
subjects remaining at home, while their allegiance to our common
Lord the King was to be preserved inviolate'--is a striking proof
to me, either that 'He who fitteth in Heaven', scorns the loftiness
of human pride, or that the evil spirit, whose personal existence
I strongly believe, and even in this age am confirmed in that
belief by a Fell, nay, by a Hurd, has more power than some choose
to allow.]



{114} The porter answered, This man is in a journey from the City
of Destruction to Mount Zion, but being weary and benighted, he
asked me if he might lodge here to-night; so I told him I would call
for thee, who, after discourse had with him, mayest do as seemeth
thee good, even according to the law of the house.

{115} Then she asked him whence he was, and whither he was going,
and he told her.  She asked him also how he got into the way; and
he told her.  Then she asked him what he had seen and met with
in the way; and he told, her.  And last she asked his name; so he
said, It is Christian, and I have so much the more a desire to lodge
here to-night, because, by what I perceive, this place was built
by the Lord of the hill for the relief and security of pilgrims.
So she smiled, but the water stood in her eyes; and after a
little pause, she said, I will call forth two or three more of the
family.  So she ran to the door, and called out Prudence, Piety,
and Charity, who, after a little more discourse with him, had him
into the family; and many of them, meeting him at the threshold
of the house, said, Come in, thou blessed of the Lord; this house
was built by the Lord of the hill, on purpose to entertain such
pilgrims in.  Then he bowed his head, and followed them into the
house.  So when he was come in and sat down, they gave him something
to drink, and consented together, that until supper was ready, some
of them should have some particular discourse with Christian, for
the best improvement of time; and they appointed Piety, and Prudence,
and Charity to discourse with him; and thus they began:

{116} PIETY. Come, good Christian, since we have been so loving
to you, to receive you in our house this night, let us, if perhaps
we may better ourselves thereby, talk with you of all things that
have happened to you in your pilgrimage.

CHR. With a very good will, and I am glad that you are so well
disposed.

{117} PIETY. What moved you at first to betake yourself to a
pilgrim's life?

CHR. I was driven out of my native country by a dreadful sound that
was in mine ears:  to wit, that unavoidable destruction did attend
me, if I abode in that place where I was.

PIETY. But how did it happen that you came out of your country this
way?

CHR. It was as God would have it; for when I was under the fears
of destruction, I did not know whither to go; but by chance there
came a man, even to me, as I was trembling and weeping, whose name
is Evangelist, and he directed me to the wicket-gate, which else I
should never have found, and so set me into the way that hath led
me directly to this house.

{118} PIETY. But did you not come by the house of the Interpreter?

CHR. Yes, and did see such things there, the remembrance of which
will stick by me as long as I live; especially three things:  to
wit, how Christ, in despite of Satan, maintains his work of grace
in the heart; how the man had sinned himself quite out of hopes of
God's mercy; and also the dream of him that thought in his sleep
the day of judgement was come.

PIETY. Why, did you hear him tell his dream?

CHR. Yes, and a dreadful one it was.  I thought it made my heart
ache as he was telling of it; but yet I am glad I heard it.

{119} PIETY. Was that all that you saw at the house of the Interpreter?

CHR. No; he took me and had me where he shewed me a stately palace,
and how the people were clad in gold that were in it; and how there
came a venturous man and cut his way through the armed men that
stood in the door to keep him out, and how he was bid to come in,
and win eternal glory.  Methought those things did ravish my heart!
I would have stayed at that good man's house a twelvemonth, but
that I knew I had further to go.

{120} PIETY. And what saw you else in the way?

CHR. Saw!  why, I went but a little further, and I saw one, as
I thought in my mind, hang bleeding upon the tree; and the very
sight of him made my burden fall off my back, (for I groaned under
a very heavy burden,) but then it fell down from off me.  It was
a strange thing to me, for I never saw such a thing before; yea,
and while I stood looking up, for then I could not forbear looking,
three Shining Ones came to me.  One of them testified that my sins
were forgiven me; another stripped me of my rags, and gave me this
broidered coat which you see; and the third set the mark which you
see in my forehead, and gave me this sealed roll.  (And with that
he plucked it out of his bosom.)

{121} PIETY. But you saw more than this, did you not?

CHR. The things that I have told you were the best; yet some other
matters I saw, as, namely--I saw three men, Simple, Sloth, and
Presumption, lie asleep a little out of the way, as I came, with
irons upon their heels; but do you think I could awake them?  I
also saw Formality and Hypocrisy come tumbling over the wall, to
go, as they pretended, to Zion, but they were quickly lost, even
as I myself did tell them; but they would not believe.  But above
all, I found it hard work to get up this hill, and as hard to come
by the lions' mouths, and truly if it had not been for the good
man, the porter that stands at the gate, I do not know but that
after all I might have gone back again; but now I thank God I am
here, and I thank you for receiving of me.

{122} Then Prudence thought good to ask him a few questions, and
desired his answer to them.

PRUD. Do you not think sometimes of the country from whence you
came?

Christian's thoughts of his native country

CHR. Yes, but with much shame and detestation:  "Truly, if I had
been mindful of that country from whence I came out, I might have
had opportunity to have returned; but now I desire a better country,
that is, an heavenly."  [Heb. 11:15,16]

PRUD. Do you not yet bear away with you some of the things that
then you were conversant withal?

CHR. Yes, but greatly against my will; especially my inward and
carnal cogitations, with which all my countrymen, as well as myself,
were delighted; but now all those things are my grief; and might
I but choose mine own things,

Christian's choice

I would choose never to think of those things more; but when I
would be doing of that which is best, that which is worst is with
me.  [Rom 7:16-19]

{123} PRUD. Do you not find sometimes, as if those things were
vanquished, which at other times are your perplexity?

Christian's golden hours

CHR. Yes, but that is seldom; but they are to me golden hours in
which such things happen to me.

PRUD. Can you remember by what means you find your annoyances, at
times, as if they were vanquished?

CHR. Yes, when I think what I saw at the cross, that will do it;
and when I look upon my broidered coat, that will do it; also when
I look into the roll that I carry in my bosom, that will do it;
and when my thoughts wax warm about whither I am going, that will
do it.

{124} PRUD. And what is it that makes you so desirous to go to
Mount Zion?

CHR. Why, there I hope to see him alive that did hang dead on the
cross; and there I hope to be rid of all those things that to this
day are in me an annoyance to me; there, they say, there is no
death; and there I shall dwell with such company as I like best.
[Isa. 25:8; Rev. 21:4] For, to tell you truth, I love him,
because I was by him eased of my burden; and I am weary of my inward
sickness.  I would fain be where I shall die no more, and with the
company that shall continually cry, "Holy, Holy, Holy!"

{125} Then said Charity to Christian, Have you a family?  Are you
a married man?

CHR. I have a wife and four small children.

CHAR. And why did you not bring them along with you?

Christian's love to his wife and children

CHR. Then Christian wept, and said, Oh, how willingly would I have
done it!  but they were all of them utterly averse to my going on
pilgrimage.

CHAR. But you should have talked to them, and have endeavoured to
have shown them the danger of being behind.

CHR. So I did; and told them also of what God had shown to me
of the destruction of our city; "but I seemed to them as one that
mocked", and they believed me not.  [Gen. 19:14]

CHAR. And did you pray to God that he would bless your counsel to
them?

CHR. Yes, and that with much affection:  for you must think that
my wife and poor children were very dear unto me.

CHAR. But did you tell them of your own sorrow, and fear of
destruction?  for I suppose that destruction was visible enough to
you.

Christian's fears of perishing might be read in his very countenance

CHR. Yes, over, and over, and over.  They might also see my fears
in my countenance, in my tears, and also in my trembling under the
apprehension of the judgement that did hang over our heads; but
all was not sufficient to prevail with them to come with me.

CHAR. But what could they say for themselves, why they came not?

{126} CHR. Why, my wife was afraid of losing this world, and
my children were given to the foolish delights of youth:  so what
by one thing, and what by another, they left me to wander in this
manner alone.

CHAR. But did you not, with your vain life, damp all that you by
words used by way of persuasion to bring them away with you?

{127} Christian's good conversation before his wife and children

CHR. Indeed, I cannot commend my life; for I am conscious to myself
of many failings therein; I know also that a man by his conversation
may soon overthrow what by argument or persuasion he doth labour to
fasten upon others for their good.  Yet this I can say, I was very
wary of giving them occasion, by any unseemly action, to make them
averse to going on pilgrimage.  Yea, for this very thing they would
tell me I was too precise, and that I denied myself of things,
for their sakes, in which they saw no evil.  Nay, I think I may
say, that if what they saw in me did hinder them, it was my great
tenderness in sinning against God, or of doing any wrong to my
neighbour.

CHAR. Indeed Cain hated his brother, "because his own works were
evil, and his brother's righteous" [1 John 3:12]; and if thy wife
and children have been offended with thee for this, they thereby
show themselves to be implacable to good, and "thou hast delivered
thy soul from their blood".  [Ezek. 3:19]

{128} Now I saw in my dream, that thus they sat talking together
until supper was ready.  So when they had made ready, they sat down
to meat.  Now the table was furnished "with fat things, and with
wine that was well refined":  and all their talk at the table was
about the Lord of the hill; as, namely, about what he had done, and
wherefore he did what he did, and why he had builded that house.
And by what they said, I perceived that he had been a great warrior,
and had fought with and slain "him that had the Power of death",
but not without great danger to himself, which made me love him
the more.  [Heb. 2:14,15]

{129} For, as they said, and as I believe (said Christian), he did
it with the loss of much blood; but that which put glory of grace
into all he did, was, that he did it out of pure love to his country.
And besides, there were some of them of the household that said
they had been and spoke with him since he did die on the cross; and
they have attested that they had it from his own lips, that he is
such a lover of poor pilgrims, that the like is not to be found
from the east to the west.

{130} They, moreover, gave an instance of what they affirmed, and
that was, he had stripped himself of his glory, that he might do
this for the poor; and that they heard him say and affirm, "that
he would not dwell in the mountain of Zion alone."  They said,
moreover, that he had made many pilgrims princes, though by nature
they were beggars born, and their original had been the dunghill.
[1 Sam 2:8; Ps. 113:7]

{131} Christian's bedchamber

Thus they discoursed together till late at night; and after they had
committed themselves to their Lord for protection, they betook
themselves to rest:  the Pilgrim they laid in a large upper
chamber, whose window opened towards the sun-rising:  the name of
the chamber was Peace; where he slept till break of day, and then
he awoke and sang--

  "Where am I now?  Is this the love and care
  Of Jesus for the men that pilgrims are?
  Thus to provide! that I should be forgiven!
  And dwell already the next door to heaven!"


{132} So in the morning they all got up; and, after some more
discourse, they told him that he should not depart till they had
shown him the rarities of that place.  And first they had him into
the study, where they showed him records of the greatest antiquity;
in which, as I remember my dream, they showed him first the pedigree of
the Lord of the hill, that he was the son of the Ancient of Days,
and came by that eternal generation.  Here also was more fully
recorded the acts that he had done, and the names of many hundreds
that he had taken into his service; and how he had placed them in
such habitations that could neither by length of days, nor decays
of nature, be dissolved.

{133} Then they read to him some of the worthy acts that some of
his servants had done:  as, how they had "subdued kingdoms, wrought
righteousness, obtained promises, stopped the mouths of lions,
quenched the violence of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, out
of weakness were made strong, waxed valiant in fight, and turned
to flight the armies of the aliens."  [Heb 11:33,34]

{134} They then read again, in another part of the records of the
house, where it was shewed how willing their Lord was to receive
into his favour any, even any, though they in time past had offered
great affronts to his person and proceedings.  Here also were
several other histories of many other famous things, of all which
Christian had a view; as of things both ancient and modern; together
with prophecies and predictions of things that have their certain
accomplishment, both to the dread and amazement of enemies, and
the comfort and solace of pilgrims.

{135} The next day they took him and had him into the armoury,
where they showed him all manner of furniture, which their Lord
had provided for pilgrims, as sword, shield, helmet, breastplate,
ALL-PRAYER, and shoes that would not wear out.  And there was here
enough of this to harness out as many men for the service of their
Lord as there be stars in the heaven for multitude.

{136} They also showed him some of the engines with which some of
his servants had done wonderful things.  They shewed him Moses'
rod; the hammer and nail with which Jael slew Sisera; the pitchers,
trumpets, and lamps too, with which Gideon put to flight the armies
of Midian.  Then they showed him the ox's goad wherewith Shamgar
slew six hundred men.  They showed him also the jaw-bone with which
Samson did such mighty feats.  They showed him, moreover, the sling
and stone with which David slew Goliath of Gath; and the sword,
also, with which their Lord will kill the Man of Sin, in the day
that he shall rise up to the prey.  They showed him, besides, many
excellent things, with which Christian was much delighted.  This
done, they went to their rest again.

{137} Then I saw in my dream, that on the morrow he got up to go
forward; but they desired him to stay till the next day also; and
then, said they, we will, if the day be clear, show you the Delectable
Mountains, which, they said, would yet further add to his comfort,
because they were nearer the desired haven than the place where at
present he was; so he consented and stayed.  When the morning was
up, they had him to the top of the house, and bid him look south;
so he did:  and behold, at a great distance, he saw a most pleasant
mountainous country, beautified with woods, vineyards, fruits of
all sorts, flowers also, with springs and fountains, very delectable
to behold.  [Isa. 33:16,17] Then he asked the name of the country.
They said it was Immanuel's Land; and it is as common, said they,
as this hill is, to and for all the pilgrims.  And when thou comest
there from thence, said they, thou mayest see to the gate of the
Celestial City, as the shepherds that live there will make appear.

{138} Now he bethought himself of setting forward, and they were
willing he should.  But first, said they, let us go again into the
armoury.  So they did; and when they came there, they harnessed him
from head to foot with what was of proof, lest, perhaps, he should
meet with assaults in the way.  He being, therefore, thus accoutred,
walketh out with his friends to the gate, and there he asked the
porter if he saw any pilgrims pass by.  Then the porter answered,
Yes.

{139} CHR. Pray, did you know him?  said he.

POR. I asked him his name, and he told me it was Faithful.

CHR. Oh, said Christian, I know him; he is my townsman, my near
neighbour; he comes from the place where I was born.  How far do
you think he may be before?

POR. He is got by this time below the hill.

CHR. Well, said Christian, good Porter, the Lord be with thee, and
add to all thy blessings much increase, for the kindness that thou
hast showed to me.

{140} Then he began to go forward; but Discretion, Piety, Charity,
and Prudence would accompany him down to the foot of the hill.  So
they went on together, reiterating their former discourses, till
they came to go down the hill.  Then said Christian, As it was
difficult coming up, so, so far as I can see, it is dangerous going
down.  Yes, said Prudence, so it is, for it is a hard matter for
a man to go down into the Valley of Humiliation, as thou art now,
and to catch no slip by the way; therefore, said they, are we come
out to accompany thee down the hill.  So he began to go down, but
very warily; yet he caught a slip or two.

{141} Then I saw in my dream that these good companions, when
Christian was gone to the bottom of the hill, gave him a loaf of
bread, a bottle of wine, and a cluster of raisins; and then he went
on his way.

But now, in this Valley of Humiliation, poor Christian was hard put
to it; for he had gone but a little way, before he espied a foul
fiend coming over the field to meet him; his name is Apollyon.  Then
did Christian begin to be afraid, and to cast in his mind whether
to go back or to stand his ground.  But he considered again that
he had no armour for his back; and therefore thought that to turn
the back to him might give him the greater advantage with ease to
pierce him with his darts.

Christian's resolution at the approach of Apollyon

Therefore he resolved to venture and stand his ground; for, thought
he, had I no more in mine eye than the saving of my life, it would
be the best way to stand.

{142} So he went on, and Apollyon met him.  Now the monster was
hideous to behold; he was clothed with scales, like a fish, (and
they are his pride,) he had wings like a dragon, feet like a bear,
and out of his belly came fire and smoke, and his mouth was as the
mouth of a lion.  When he was come up to Christian, he beheld him
with a disdainful countenance, and thus began to question with him.

{143} APOL. Whence come you?  and whither are you bound?

CHR. I am come from the City of Destruction, which is the place of
all evil, and am going to the City of Zion.

APOL. By this I perceive thou art one of my subjects, for all that
country is mine, and I am the prince and god of it.  How is it,
then, that thou hast run away from thy king?  Were it not that I
hope thou mayest do me more service, I would strike thee now, at
one blow, to the ground.

{144} CHR. I was born, indeed, in your dominions, but your service
was hard, and your wages such as a man could not live on, "for the
wages of sin is death" [Rom 6:23]; therefore, when I was come to
years, I did, as other considerate persons do, look out, if, perhaps,
I might mend myself.

Apollyon's flattery

APOL. There is no prince that will thus lightly lose his subjects,
neither will I as yet lose thee; but since thou complainest of thy
service and wages, be content to go back:  what our country will
afford, I do here promise to give thee.

CHR. But I have let myself to another, even to the King of princes;
and how can I, with fairness, go back with thee?

{145} APOL. Thou hast done in this, according to the proverb,
"Changed a bad for a worse"; but it is ordinary for those that
have professed themselves his servants, after a while to give him
the slip, and return again to me.  Do thou so too, and all shall
be well.

CHR. I have given him my faith, and sworn my allegiance to him;
how, then, can I go back from this, and not be hanged as a traitor?

APOL. Thou didst the same to me, and yet I am willing to pass by
all, if now thou wilt yet turn again and go back.

{146} CHR. What I promised thee was in my nonage; and, besides, I
count the Prince under whose banner now I stand is able to absolve
me; yea, and to pardon also what I did as to my compliance with
thee; and besides, O thou destroying Apollyon!  to speak truth,
I like his service, his wages, his servants, his government, his
company, and country, better than thine; and, therefore, leave off
to persuade me further; I am his servant, and I will follow him.

{147} APOL. Consider, again, when thou art in cool blood, what thou
art like to meet with in the way that thou goest.  Thou knowest
that, for the most part, his servants come to an ill end, because
they are transgressors against me and my ways.  How many of them
have been put to shameful deaths!  and, besides, thou countest his
service better than mine, whereas he never came yet from the place
where he is to deliver any that served him out of their hands; but
as for me, how many times, as all the world very well knows, have
I delivered, either by power, or fraud, those that have faithfully
served me, from him and his, though taken by them; and so I will
deliver thee.

CHR. His forbearing at present to deliver them is on purpose to try
their love, whether they will cleave to him to the end; and as for
the ill end thou sayest they come to, that is most glorious in their
account; for, for present deliverance, they do not much expect it,
for they stay for their glory, and then they shall have it when
their Prince comes in his and the glory of the angels.

APOL. Thou hast already been unfaithful in thy service to him; and
how dost thou think to receive wages of him?

CHR. Wherein, O Apollyon!  have I been unfaithful to him?

{148} APOL. Thou didst faint at first setting out, when thou wast
almost choked in the Gulf of Despond; thou didst attempt wrong ways
to be rid of thy burden, whereas thou shouldst have stayed till
thy Prince had taken it off; thou didst sinfully sleep and lose
thy choice thing; thou wast, also, almost persuaded to go back at
the sight of the lions; and when thou talkest of thy journey, and
of what thou hast heard and seen, thou art inwardly desirous of
vain-glory in all that thou sayest or doest.

CHR. All this is true, and much more which thou hast left out;
but the Prince whom I serve and honour is merciful, and ready to
forgive; but, besides, these infirmities possessed me in thy country,
for there I sucked them in; and I have groaned under them, been
sorry for them, and have obtained pardon of my Prince.

{149} APOL. Then Apollyon broke out into a grievous rage, saying,
I am an enemy to this Prince; I hate his person, his laws, and
people; I am come out on purpose to withstand thee.

CHR. Apollyon, beware what you do; for I am in the King's highway,
the way of holiness; therefore take heed to yourself.

APOL. Then Apollyon straddled quite over the whole breadth of the
way, and said, I am void of fear in this matter:  prepare thyself
to die; for I swear by my infernal den, that thou shalt go no
further; here will I spill thy soul.

{150} And with that he threw a flaming dart at his breast; but
Christian had a shield in his hand, with which he caught it, and
so prevented the danger of that.

Then did Christian draw, for he saw it was time to bestir him; and
Apollyon as fast made at him, throwing darts as thick as hail; by
the which, notwithstanding all that Christian could do to avoid it,
Apollyon wounded him in his head, his hand, and foot.  This made
Christian give a little back; Apollyon, therefore, followed his work
amain, and Christian again took courage, and resisted as manfully
as he could.  This sore combat lasted for above half a day, even
till Christian was almost quite spent; for you must know that
Christian, by reason of his wounds, must needs grow weaker and
weaker.

{151} Then Apollyon, espying his opportunity, began to gather up
close to Christian, and wrestling with him, gave him a dreadful
fall; and with that Christian's sword flew out of his hand.  Then
said Apollyon, I am sure of thee now.  And with that he had almost
pressed him to death, so that Christian began to despair of life;
but as God would have it, while Apollyon was fetching of his
last blow, thereby to make a full end of this good man, Christian
nimbly stretched out his hand for his sword, and caught it, saying,
"Rejoice not against me, O mine enemy; when I fall I shall arise"
[Micah 7:8];

Christian's victory over Apollyon

and with that gave him a deadly thrust, which made him give back,
as one that had received his mortal wound.  Christian perceiving
that, made at him again, saying, "Nay, in all these things we are
more than conquerors through him that loved us".  [Rom. 8:37] And
with that Apollyon spread forth his dragon's wings, and sped him
away, that Christian for a season saw him no more.  [James 4:7]

{152} In this combat no man can imagine, unless he had seen and
heard as I did, what yelling and hideous roaring Apollyon made all
the time of the fight--he spake like a dragon; and, on the other
side, what sighs and groans burst from Christian's heart.  I never
saw him all the while give so much as one pleasant look, till he
perceived he had wounded Apollyon with his two-edged sword; then,
indeed, he did smile, and look upward; but it was the dreadfullest
sight that ever I saw.

A more unequal match can hardly be,--CHRISTIAN must fight an
Angel; but you see,

  The valiant man by handling Sword and Shield,
  Doth make him, tho' a Dragon, quit the field.


{153} So when the battle was over, Christian said, "I will here
give thanks to him that delivered me out of the mouth of the lion,
to him that did help me against Apollyon."  And so he did, saying--

  Great Beelzebub, the captain of this fiend,
  Design'd my ruin; therefore to this end
  He sent him harness'd out:  and he with rage
  That hellish was, did fiercely me engage.
  But blessed Michael helped me, and I,
  By dint of sword, did quickly make him fly.
  Therefore to him let me give lasting praise,
  And thank and bless his holy name always.


{154} Then there came to him a hand, with some of the leaves of the
tree of life, the which Christian took, and applied to the wounds
that he had received in the battle, and was healed immediately.
He also sat down in that place to eat bread, and to drink of the
bottle that was given him a little before; so, being refreshed,
he addressed himself to his journey, with his sword drawn in his
hand; for he said, I know not but some other enemy may be at hand.
But he met with no other affront from Apollyon quite through this
valley.

{155} Now, at the end of this valley was another, called the Valley
of the Shadow of Death, and Christian must needs go through it,
because the way to the Celestial City lay through the midst of it.
Now, this valley is a very solitary place.  The prophet Jeremiah
thus describes it:  "A wilderness, a land of deserts and of pits,
a land of drought, and of the shadow of death, a land that no man"
(but a Christian) "passed through, and where no man dwelt."  [Jer.
2:6]

Now here Christian was worse put to it than in his fight with
Apollyon, as by the sequel you shall see.

{156} I saw then in my dream, that when Christian was got to the
borders of the Shadow of Death, there met him two men, children of
them that brought up an evil report of the good land [Num. 13],
making haste to go back; to whom Christian spake as follows:--

{157} CHR. Whither are you going?

MEN. They said, Back!  back!  and we would have you to do so too,
if either life or peace is prized by you.

CHR. Why, what's the matter?  said Christian.

MEN. Matter!  said they; we were going that way as you are going,
and went as far as we durst; and indeed we were almost past coming
back; for had we gone a little further, we had not been here to
bring the news to thee.

CHR. But what have you met with?  said Christian.

MEN. Why, we were almost in the Valley of the Shadow of Death; but
that, by good hap, we looked before us, and saw the danger before
we came to it.  [Ps. 44:19; 107:10]

CHR. But what have you seen?  said Christian.

{158} MEN. Seen!  Why, the Valley itself, which is as dark as pitch;
we also saw there the hobgoblins, satyrs, and dragons of the pit;
we heard also in that Valley a continual howling and yelling, as of
a people under unutterable misery, who there sat bound in affliction
and irons; and over that Valley hangs the discouraging clouds of
confusion.  Death also doth always spread his wings over it.  In
a word, it is every whit dreadful, being utterly without order.
[Job 3:5; 10:22]

CHR. Then, said Christian, I perceive not yet, by what you have
said, but that this is my way to the desired haven.  [Jer. 2:6]

MEN. Be it thy way; we will not choose it for ours.  So, they parted,
and Christian went on his way, but still with his sword drawn in
his hand, for fear lest he should be assaulted.

{159} I saw then in my dream, so far as this valley reached, there
was on the right hand a very deep ditch; that ditch is it into
which the blind have led the blind in all ages, and have both there
miserably perished.  [Ps. 69:14,15] Again, behold, on the left
hand, there was a very dangerous quag, into which, if even a good
man falls, he can find no bottom for his foot to stand on.  Into
that quag King David once did fall, and had no doubt therein been
smothered, had not HE that is able plucked him out.

{160} The pathway was here also exceeding narrow, and therefore
good Christian was the more put to it; for when he sought, in the
dark, to shun the ditch on the one hand, he was ready to tip over
into the mire on the other; also when he sought to escape the mire,
without great carefulness he would be ready to fall into the ditch.
Thus he went on, and I heard him here sigh bitterly; for, besides
the dangers mentioned above, the pathway was here so dark, and
ofttimes, when he lift up his foot to set forward, he knew not
where or upon what he should set it next.


  Poor man!  where art thou now?  thy day is night.
  Good man, be not cast down, thou yet art right,
  Thy way to heaven lies by the gates of Hell;
  Cheer up, hold out, with thee it shall go well.


{161} About the midst of this valley, I perceived the mouth of
hell to be, and it stood also hard by the wayside.  Now, thought
Christian, what shall I do?  And ever and anon the flame and smoke
would come out in such abundance, with sparks and hideous noises,
(things that cared not for Christian's sword, as did Apollyon
before), that he was forced to put up his sword, and betake himself
to another weapon called All-prayer.  [Eph. 6:18] So he cried in my
hearing, "O Lord, I beseech thee, deliver my soul!"  [Ps. 116:4]
Thus he went on a great while, yet still the flames would be
reaching towards him.  Also he heard doleful voices, and rushings
to and fro, so that sometimes he thought he should be torn in
pieces, or trodden down like mire in the streets.  This frightful
sight was seen, and these dreadful noises were heard by him for
several miles together; and, coming to a place where he thought he
heard a company of fiends coming forward to meet him, he stopped,
and began to muse what he had best to do.  Sometimes he had half
a thought to go back; then again he thought he might be half way
through the valley; he remembered also how he had already vanquished
many a danger, and that the danger of going back might be much more
than for to go forward; so he resolved to go on.  Yet the fiends
seemed to come nearer and nearer; but when they were come even
almost at him, he cried out with a most vehement voice, "I will walk
in the strength of the Lord God!"  so they gave back, and came no
further.

{162} One thing I would not let slip.  I took notice that now poor
Christian was so confounded, that he did not know his own voice;
and thus I perceived it.  Just when he was come over against the
mouth of the burning pit, one of the wicked ones got behind him, and
stepped up softly to him, and whisperingly suggested many grievous
blasphemies to him, which he verily thought had proceeded from his
own mind.  This put Christian more to it than anything that he met
with before, even to think that he should now blaspheme him that
he loved so much before; yet, if he could have helped it, he would
not have done it; but he had not the discretion either to stop his
ears, or to know from whence these blasphemies came.

{163} When Christian had travelled in this disconsolate condition
some considerable time, he thought he heard the voice of a man,
as going before him, saying, "Though I walk through the valley of
the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for thou art with me."
[Ps. 23:4]

{164} Then he was glad, and that for these reasons:

First, Because he gathered from thence, that some who feared God
were in this valley as well as himself.

Secondly, For that he perceived God was with them, though in that
dark and dismal state; and why not, thought he, with me?  though,
by reason of the impediment that attends this place, I cannot
perceive it.  [Job 9:11]

Thirdly, For that he hoped, could he overtake them, to have company
by and by.  So he went on, and called to him that was before; but
he knew not what to answer; for that he also thought to be alone.
And by and by the day broke; then said Christian, He hath turned
"the shadow of death into the morning".  [Amos 5:8]

{165} Now morning being come, he looked back, not out of desire to
return, but to see, by the light of the day, what hazards he had
gone through in the dark.  So he saw more perfectly the ditch that
was on the one hand, and the mire that was on the other; also how
narrow the way was which led betwixt them both; also now he saw the
hobgoblins, and satyrs, and dragons of the pit, but all afar off,
(for after break of day, they came not nigh;) yet they were discovered
to him, according to that which is written, "He discovereth deep
things out of darkness, and bringeth out to light the shadow of
death."  [Job 12:22]

{166} Now was Christian much affected with his deliverance from all
the dangers of his solitary way; which dangers, though he feared
them more before, yet he saw them more clearly now, because the light
of the day made them conspicuous to him.  And about this time the
sun was rising, and this was another mercy to Christian; for you
must note, that though the first part of the Valley of the Shadow
of Death was dangerous, yet this second part which he was yet to
go, was, if possible, far more dangerous; for from the place where
he now stood, even to the end of the valley, the way was all along
set so full of snares, traps, gins, and nets here, and so full of
pits, pitfalls, deep holes, and shelvings down there, that, had it
now been dark, as it was when he came the first part of the way,
had he had a thousand souls, they had in reason been cast away; but,
as I said just now, the sun was rising.  Then said he, "His candle
shineth upon my head, and by his light I walk through darkness."
[Job 29:3]

{167} In this light, therefore, he came to the end of the valley.
Away in the north there are grand forests filled with wild animals.
Tigers are often shot within twenty miles of the old king's
palace.

14. Now I have filled my paper, and I must bring this letter to
an end.
I hope you are all well and happy. I am leaving Burma tomorrow.--Best
love to you all. FATHER.

* * * * *
18. A LETTER FROM CEYLON.

1.

MY DEAR CHILDREN,--A week ago I landed in the beautiful island of
Ceylon. It lies to the south of India. Get mother to show it to
you on the globe.

2. I am still under the British flag, the Union Jack. I can see it
waving from the top of a big building.

  The people of Ceylon are proud to call
  themselves British.
  
  3. I have just been for a ride through the
  streets of the chief town. I rode in a
  rickshaw--that is, a kind of large
  baby-carriage drawn by a man. My rickshaw had rubber
  on its wheels, so we went along very
  smoothly and quickly.
  

[Illustration: {Rickshaw with passenger}]
4. Some of the carts are drawn by little bullocks that trot along
as fast as a pony. I often meet carts with a high cover of thatch.
These carts carry the tea, which grows on the hills, down to the
ships in the harbour.

5. Some of the men of Ceylon wear tortoise-shell combs in their
hair.

They are very proud of these combs, and some of them are very
handsome.

[Illustration: {Ceylon family--a man, a woman, and two babies}]

6. The children of Ceylon seem very happy.

They are pretty and clean, and always obey their parents.

Many of them learn to speak and read English. They love dancing and
singing, and they never quarrel.

[Illustration: Ceylon Girls Playing the Tom-Tom.

(From the picture by E.A. Hornel. By permission of the Corporation
of Manchester.)] 
7.

By the next ship home I am sending mother a chest of tea. The tea
grew on the hills of Ceylon. I made a journey to these hills by
train.

On the way we passed through thick forests, and by the side of
beautiful rivers.

8. Ceylon is very rich in plants and trees. The cocoanut palm grows
almost everywhere. On one of the rivers I saw a raft of cocoanuts.

A man swam behind it and pushed it along.

[Illustration: {Cocoanut palm tree}]

9. With this letter I send you a picture of a tea-garden. Notice the
men and women plucking the leaf.

Many of them come from the south of India.
Look at the white planter. He comes, as you know, from our own
country.

[Illustration: IN A CEYLON TEA PLANTATION.]
10. In the middle of Ceylon there are many high mountains. The
highest is called Adam's Peak.

It stands like a great wedge high above the other hills.

11.

The people of Ceylon believe that it is a holy mountain. They say
that once upon a time Buddha climbed to the top of this mountain.
To prove that he did so they show you his footprint. It is more
than five feet long!

12. A little temple has been built over the footprint. Men, women,
and children climb the mountain, to lay little gifts before the
footprint, and to strew sweet flowers about it. When this is done,
the children kneel down and ask their parents to bless them.

13.

To-morrow I leave Ceylon on a long voyage to China. You will not
hear from me for several weeks.

I hope you are all well, and that you are still good children.--I
remain, your loving Father.

* * * * *

19. A LETTER FROM CHINA.

1.

MY DEAR CHILDREN,--Three weeks have gone by since I last wrote to
you. I have made my voyage safely, and I am now in a great city
of China called Canton.

2. Ask mother to show you China on the globe.

You see at once that it is a vast country. It is larger than the whole
of Europe.

One-fourth of all the people in the world live in China.

3. All round this city of Canton there is a high wall. From the
wall the city seems to be a beautiful place.

When, however, you enter it, you soon find that it is dirty and
full of foul smells.

[Illustration: A Chinese Street.

(From the picture by T. Hodgson Liddell, R.B.A.)]

4. The streets are very narrow, and are always crowded with
people. Many of them are roofed in to keep them cool. Most of
them are so narrow that no carriage can pass along them.

People who wish to ride must be carried in a kind of box on the
shoulders of two or more men.

[Illustration: {Person riding in a box}]

5. I am sure you would like to see the signboards that hang down
in front of the shops.

The strange letters on them are painted in gold and in bright
colours.

They look very gay indeed.

6. The shops sell all sorts of things--silk, books, drugs, flowers,
china, and birds. Some of the shops only sell gold and silver
paper. The Chinese burn this paper at the graves of their friends.

When they do this they think that they are sending money for their
dead friends to spend in the other world.

7.

Many things are also sold in the streets. The street traders carry a
bamboo pole across the shoulder. From the ends of this pole they
sling the baskets in which they carry their wares. Many workmen
ply their trades in the open street, and you are sure to see quack
doctors, letter-writers, and money-changers.

8. The Chinese do in the open street many things which we do
inside our houses. A Chinaman likes to eat his meals where every
one can see him.

9. Sometimes he will sit in front of his house and wash his
feet.
Yesterday I saw a man having his tooth drawn out of doors. A crowd
stood round him, watching to see how it was done.

10. How should you like to go for a ride in a wheelbarrow? In
China the wheelbarrow is often used for carrying people or goods
from place to place. It has a large wheel in the middle.

Round the wheel there is a platform for people or goods.

[Illustration: {People riding in a wheelbarrow}]
11. A broad river runs through the city. It is crowded with boats,
in which live many thousands of people.

Many of these people never go ashore at all.

12.

Over the sterns of the boats there are long baskets. These are
the backyards of the floating city. Hens, ducks, geese, and sometimes
pigs, are kept in these baskets.

[Illustration: {A boy on a boat}]
13. The little boys who live on the boats have a log of wood
fastened to their waists. This keeps them afloat if they fall
overboard. The little girls have no such lifebelts. In China nobody
troubles about the girls.

14. Nearly all the boats have an eye painted on their bows. Perhaps
this seems strange to you. The Chinese, however, say,--
"S'pose no got eye, no can see; S'pose no can see, no can walkee

."
* * * * *

20. CHINESE BOYS AND GIRLS.

1. Chinese fathers and mothers are very glad when their children are
boys. In China the boys are much petted. Their mothers give way
to them, and let them do as they please.

2. Girls, however, are not welcome. Sometimes they are called "Not-wanted"
or "Ought-to-have-been-a-boy."
3. A Chinese boy has always two names, sometimes four.

He has one name when he is a child, and another when he goes to
school.

He has a third name when he begins to earn money. When he dies he
has a fourth name.

4. Chinese boys are very fond of flying kites, which are shaped like
fish or butterflies or dragons. Old gentlemen are just as fond of
kite-flying as boys.

5.

In China you will often see boys playing hopscotch or spinning
peg-tops. They also play shuttlecock, but they have no battledore.
They kick the shuttlecock with the sides of their feet.

6. Chinese boys love to set off fireworks, such as crackers, wheels,
and rockets. If the fireworks make a loud noise, so much the
better.

7.

Chinese children are taught to show very great respect to their
parents. They all bow and kneel to their fathers and mothers. A boy
who is not kind and good to his parents is thought to be a wicked
wretch.

8. A few days ago I went to see a Chinese school. The boys sit
on stools at tiny tables. In front of them they have a stone
slab, a stick of Chinese ink, and some brushes with which they
write.

[Illustration: {A boy at a table at school}]
9. There is always a great din in a Chinese schoolroom. The boys shout
at the top of their voices. If they do not make a noise, the teacher
thinks that they are not learning.

10. When a boy knows his lesson he goes up to his master to say it.

He turns his back to his master, and does not face him as you
do.

11.

A Chinese boy becomes a man at sixteen years of age.

He chooses his work in life when he is quite a baby. Let me tell you
how he does it.

12. When he is one year old he is seated in the middle of such things
as money, books, and pens. Then the parents watch him to see what
he will play with.

13.

If he takes up the money, they say that he must be a trader or a banker.
If he takes up a book or a pen, they say that he must be a
writer or a teacher or a scholar.

* * * * *

21. HAIR, FINGERS, AND TOES.

1. Chinese men shave their heads, all but a small patch of hair. This
is allowed to grow very long, and is plaited into a pigtail.

I have seen Chinamen with coloured ribbons woven into their
pigtails.

[Illustration: {Two Chinamen}]
2. When men are at work they twine their pigtails round their
heads.
When they wish to show respect to any person they let down their
pigtails. A man who has a long, thick pigtail is very proud of
it.

3. Sometimes men who are sent to prison have their pigtails cut
off.
This is thought to be a great disgrace. When they leave prison they
buy false pigtails to wear.

4. When Chinamen fight they pull each other about by the pigtail.
Sometimes a schoolmaster punishes bad boys with his pigtail.

5. Rich women are very proud of their tiny feet. Chinese ladies
can wear shoes about four inches long. Fancy mother wearing a doll's
shoes!

[Illustration: {Chinese women holding fans}]
6. Girls have their feet bound up tightly when they are five years
of age. The bandages are made tighter every week, until the foot
stops growing.

Of course, the poor girls suffer very much.

The Chinese have a saying: "Every pair of bound feet costs a bath
of tears."
7. When the girls grow up they cannot walk. They can only totter
along, and they have to lean on the arm of a maid to keep themselves
from falling.

[Illustration: {Woman walking with the support of her maid}]
8. I am glad to say that many parents do not now bind the feet of
their girls. They have learnt that it is both wicked and foolish
to do so. At one school in China all the girls have their feet
unbound. They skip and play about almost as well as Kate and
May.

9. You and I think that only dirty, untidy people let their nails
grow long. Rich people in China never cut their nails. They let
them grow so long that they have to wear shields to keep them
from being broken.

10. The dress of a Chinaman is very simple. He wears trousers and
several cotton or silk tunics. The outside tunic has very long,
wide sleeves; these are used as pockets.

11. The trousers are loose, and are covered up to the knee by white
stockings. When a Chinaman is in full dress he wears a long gown. The
Chinese boy wears the same kind of clothes as his father. Every
man, woman, and child carries a fan.

  12. Chinese boots are made of cloth or
  satin, never of leather. The soles are
  made of rags or paper. We blacken the
  uppers of our boots.
  Chinamen whiten the soles of theirs.
  
  [Illustration: {Chinese boots}]
  13. Now I must end this letter.

When I come home you must ask me to tell you about the rice fields
and the silk farms and the Great Wall. I have a hundred more things
to tell you about this wonderful land.--Your loving FATHER.

[Illustration: A Rich Chinaman's House.

(From the photograph by J. Thomson, F.R.G.S.)]
* * * * *
22. A LETTER FROM JAPAN.

1. MY DEAR CHILDREN,--Once more I have made a long sea voyage, and
once more I am safely on shore.

I am now in Japan.

2. The Japs live on islands, just as we do. They are brave and
clever and busy, and they have many fine warships. Because of all
these things they are sometimes called the Britons of the Far
East.

3. Most of the people in the East are very backward. They have stood
still while the people of the West have gone forward. Not so the
Japs.
They have learnt everything that the West can teach them. You will
see in Japan all the things on which we pride ourselves.

4. The Japs are first-rate sailors.

Some of their captains learnt to be sailors on board our warships.
They are also fine soldiers. You know that not many years ago they
beat the Russians both by land and by sea.

5. I like the Japs better than any other people that I have met in
the East.

Many of them still wear the dress of olden days, and keep to their
simple and pretty ways.

Their country is beautiful, and they love beautiful things.

6.

They are very fond indeed of flowers, which they grow very well.

Their gardens are lovely.

When the flowers are in bloom the Japs troop in thousands to see
them.

It is pretty to watch the delight of fathers and mothers and children
at the form, colour, and scent of the flowers.

7.

The Japs are very clever workmen. I have often stood and watched
them at work. They always try to beat their own best. Good work of
any kind gives them joy; bad work gives them pain.

8. I have bought Jap fans for Kate and May. On these fans there
are pictures of a snow-clad mountain shaped like a sugar loaf.

There is no more beautiful mountain in all the world.

[Illustration: {Snowy mountain}] 
9.

This mountain began as a hole in the ground. Melted rocks boiled
up out of the hole and built up the mountain. In time the rocks
grew cool and hard. Some Japs believe that it was formed in a
single night!

10. Steam still comes out of a crack in the side of the mountain.
This shows that any day melted rocks may boil forth again. About
two hundred years ago the mountain threw out so much ash that it
covered a town sixty miles away.

11.

Sometimes the earth shakes and opens in great cracks. When the
earth "quakes" houses tumble down, and the tops of tall trees snap
off.

Very often lives are lost.

* * * * *
23. JAP CHILDREN.

1. When a Jap boy is born there is great joy in his home. His
mother's friends all come to see him. They bring him presents,
such as toys, dried fish, and eggs.

2. Very early in his life the little Jap baby is strapped on to his
sister's back.

He goes with her wherever she goes. If the weather is cold, the
little girl covers him with her coat.

When the sun is hot she shelters him with her sunshade.

3. When she plays she jumps and skips and runs about, and all the
time baby's little head jerks to and fro. He does not mind; he
is quite happy.

You never hear a Jap baby cry.

4.

When a boy is about three years of age he learns to walk. He soon
finds his feet, and runs about on high wooden clogs.

5. Jap boys are fond of pets and games. Wherever a boy goes he
carries with him a long pole.

With this he makes flying leaps and does many clever tricks.

6. Every boy in Japan wishes to be either a soldier or a sailor when
he grows up. Even tiny little mites play with flags and drums and
little guns.

When the boys are older they are taught to be brave, and to die
if need be for their country.

7. The great day of the year for Jap boys is the fifth day of the
fifth month. On this day the Feast of Flags is held. Over each house
where there is a boy you see big paper fish floating in the
air.

[Illustration: {Flags on poles outside houses}]
8. The shops are then full of toys. Most of the toys are soldiers,
and sometimes they are like the soldiers of olden days. Some are
on foot, and some are on horseback; some are generals, and some are
drummers.

[Illustration: The Toy Seller.
(From the water-colour painting by H.E. Tidmarsh.)]
9. The boys love to play at war. You can always make Jap boys happy
by giving them a toy army to play with.
10. The greatest day of the year for the girls is the Feast of
Dolls. On this day the girls give doll parties to their little
friends. All the dolls, however old, are brought out and dressed
up in fine new clothes.
The Feast of Dolls is a time of great fun and laughter.
11. Jap children now play many of our games. They are very fond of
"prisoner's base," "fox and geese," and "tag." The boys love
kite-flying.

[Illustration: {Children at play}]
12. Sometimes they put glass on the strings of their kites, and
with it try to cut the strings of other boys' kites. They are very
clever at this game, and there is great laughter when a string is
cut.
13. In the house, during the day, girls like to blow soap bubbles.
At dusk they are fond of hunting fire-flies, and driving them to
and fro with fans.
14. In the summer they catch grasshoppers, and keep them in small
bamboo cages. They say that the chirping of the grasshoppers brings
them good luck.
15. All Japs are polite--even boys. When a boy goes to the house
of a friend he squats on his heels. Then he places his hands on the
floor, and bows until his forehead touches his toes. This he does
again and again, and all the time he speaks very politely.
[Illustration: {Boys bowing}]
16. Jap children are taught to be very kind and helpful to their
elders, and to the poor and the weak. Yesterday I saw a little girl
run from her mother to take the hand of a blind man and lead him
across the street.
17. Now, my dears, I must end this letter. To-morrow I start on my
homeward way. I shall sail across the ocean to the great land of
America. I hope you are all well, good, and happy. Your loving
FATHER.

* * * * * 
24. A LETTER FROM CANADA.
1. MY DEAR CHILDREN,--Look at the globe in my room and find Japan.
Then find America. You will see that a broad ocean lies between
them. It is called the Pacific Ocean. I have crossed this ocean,
and I am now in the great country of Canada.
2. I am sure that you cannot guess where I am writing this letter.
I am writing it in the train. I have already been three days in the
train, and I am only half-way across Canada.
3. I am glad to say that I am once more under the Union Jack. The
whole land of Canada is British, from sea to sea. Our flag floats
above every city.
4. The first part of my journey pleased me most. The train ran
through a beautiful country, filled with splendid trees. Some of
them are as high as a church tower, and have trunks many yards
round. There are no finer trees in all the world.
5. Later in the day our train ran by the side of a rushing river,
which was deep down in a narrow valley between the mountains.
6. In this river there are millions of salmon. I saw men catching
them.
You will see tins of salmon from this river in most of the grocers'
shops at home.
7. As the train ran on, the mountains rose higher and higher, until
their tops were covered with snow. We then began to cross the great
Rocky Mountains. Up and up the train climbed, until the rails reached
their highest point.

[Illustration: {The Rocky Mountains}]
8. Then we began to descend. We ran through dark clefts in the
rocks, along the edges of steep cliffs, across rivers, and by the
side of lakes. High above us were the snowy mountain tops. It was
all very grand and very beautiful.
9. At last we left the mountains behind us and reached the plains.
We are now speeding over these plains. The country is as flat as
the palm of your hand. Here and there, far apart, I can see
farm-houses. On these plains the best wheat in the world is grown.
10. In winter the whole land is covered deep with snow, and the
rivers are frozen over. In April winter gives place to spring. Then
the snow melts, and the ice on the rivers breaks up.
11. No sooner has the snow gone than the wheat begins to spring up.
The wheat grows very fast and ripens very quickly. Much of it is
sent to Britain. Very likely the loaf which you ate for breakfast
this morning was made of wheat which grew on the plains of
Canada.

[Illustration: Harvest-Time in Canada.
(From the picture by Cyrus Cuneo, R.I. By kind permission of the
C.P.R. Co.)]
12. In other parts of Canada there are forests which cover thousands
of miles of country. The trees in these forests are cut down, and
are made into planks which are sent to all parts of the world.
13. The trees are felled during winter. Their trunks are piled up
by the side of a river. When the thaw comes they are thrown into
the water. Men follow them and push them back into the water if
they drift ashore.

[Illustration: {Men rolling logs}]
14. The stream carries the logs down to the sawmills, where they
are cut up into planks. Love to all. FATHER.

* * * * *
25. CHILDREN OF CANADA.
1. MY DEAR CHILDREN,--I am staying for a few days with a friend who
has a farm on the plains. His house is five miles from the railway.
2. My friend met me at the station with a motor car, and drove me
over rough roads between huge fields. There are no hedges in this
part of the country. The fields are divided from each other by
fences.
3. This farm is much larger than any farm which you have seen in
England. The house is built of wood. All round it is a pretty
garden.
Not far away are the stables and the barns.
[Illustration: {Large farmhouse}]
4. I am sure you would like to hear something about the farmer's
children. There are three of them--a girl and two boys. The girl
is the youngest, and she is about eight years of age.
5. All the children make themselves very useful in the house.
Servants are hard to get in Canada, so people must learn to help
themselves. The boys clean the boots and chop wood. The girls think
nothing of helping to scrub the floors.
6. After breakfast the children trudge off to school, which is three
miles away. They take their lunch with them. When they return in
the evening they have many odd jobs to do.
7. In the playground of their school you will see many young trees
growing. There are very few trees on the plains, and far more are
needed.

[Illustration: {Canadian schoolhouse}] 
8.Surely this
man will make a very excellent pilgrim.

CHR. At this Christian modestly smiled, and said, This man, with
whom you are so taken, will beguile, with that tongue of his, twenty
of them that know him not.

FAITH. Do you know him, then?

{190} CHR. Know him!  Yes, better than he knows himself.

FAITH. Pray, what is he?

CHR. His name is Talkative; he dwelleth in our town.  I wonder that
you should be a stranger to him, only I consider that our town is
large.

FAITH. Whose son is he?  And whereabout does he dwell?

CHR. He is the son of one Say-well; he dwelt in Prating Row; and is
known of all that are acquainted with him, by the name of Talkative
in Prating Row; and notwithstanding his fine tongue, he is but a
sorry fellow.

{191} FAITH. Well, he seems to be a very pretty man.

CHR. That is, to them who have not thorough acquaintance with him;
for he is best abroad; near home, he is ugly enough.  Your saying
that he is a pretty man, brings to my mind what I have observed in
the work of the painter, whose pictures show best at a distance,
but, very near, more unpleasing.

{192} FAITH. But I am ready to think you do but jest, because you
smiled.

CHR. God forbid that I should jest (although I smiled) in this
matter, or that I should accuse any falsely!  I will give you
a further discovery of him.  This man is for any company, and for
any talk; as he talketh now with you, so will he talk when he is on
the ale-bench; and the more drink he hath in his crown, the more
of these things he hath in his mouth; religion hath no place in his
heart, or house, or conversation; all he hath lieth in his tongue,
and his religion is, to make a noise therewith.

{193} FAITH. Say you so!  then am I in this man greatly deceived.

CHR. Deceived!  you may be sure of it; remember the proverb, "They
say and do not."  [Matt. 23:3] But the kingdom of God is not in
word, but in Power.  [1 Cor 4:20] He talketh of prayer, of repentance,
of faith, and of the new birth; but he knows but only to talk of
them.  I have been in his family, and have observed him both at
home and abroad; and I know what I say of him is the truth.  His
house is as empty of religion as the white of an egg is of savour.
There is there neither prayer nor sign of repentance for sin; yea,
the brute in his kind serves God far better than he.  He is the
very stain, reproach, and shame of religion, to all that know him;
it can hardly have a good word in all that end of the town where
he dwells, through him.  [Rom. 2:24,25] Thus say the common people
that know him, A saint abroad, and a devil at home.  His poor
family finds it so; he is such a churl, such a railer at and so
unreasonable with his servants, that they neither know how to do
for or speak to him.  Men that have any dealings with him say it is
better to deal with a Turk than with him; for fairer dealing they
shall have at their hands.  This Talkative (if it be possible) will
go beyond them, defraud, beguile, and overreach them.  Besides, he
brings up his sons to follow his steps; and if he findeth in any of
them a foolish timorousness, (for so he calls the first appearance
of a tender conscience,) he calls them fools and blockheads, and by
no means will employ them in much, or speak to their commendations
before others.  For my part, I am of opinion, that he has, by his
wicked life, caused many to stumble and fall; and will be, if God
prevent not, the ruin of many more.

{194} FAITH. Well, my brother, I am bound to believe you; not only
because you say you know him, but also because, like a Christian,
you make your reports of men.  For I cannot think that you speak
these things of ill-will, but because it is even so as you say.

CHR. Had I known him no more than you, I might perhaps have thought
of him, as, at the first, you did; yea, had he received this report
at their hands only that are enemies to religion, I should have
thought it had been a slander,--a lot that often falls from bad
men's mouths upon good men's names and professions; but all these
things, yea, and a great many more as bad, of my own knowledge,
I can prove him guilty of.  Besides, good men are ashamed of him;
they can neither call him brother, nor friend; the very naming of
him among them makes them blush, if they know him.

{195} FAITH. Well, I see that saying and doing are two things, and
hereafter I shall better observe this distinction.

CHR. They are two things, indeed, and are as diverse as are the
soul and the body; for as the body without the soul is but a dead
carcass, so saying, if it be alone, is but a dead carcass also.
The soul of religion is the practical part:  "Pure religion
and undefiled, before God and the Father, is this, To visit the
fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep himself
unspotted from the world."  [James 1:27; see vv.  22-26] This
Talkative is not aware of; he thinks that hearing and saying will
make a good Christian, and thus he deceiveth his own soul.  Hearing
is but as the sowing of the seed; talking is not sufficient to
prove that fruit is indeed in the heart and life; and let us assure
ourselves, that at the day of doom men shall be judged according
to their fruits.  [Matt. 13, 25] It will not be said then, Did you
believe?  but, Were you doers, or talkers only?  and accordingly
shall they be judged.  The end of the world is compared to our
harvest; and you know men at harvest regard nothing but fruit.
Not that anything can be accepted that is not of faith, but I speak
this to show you how insignificant the profession of Talkative will
be at that day.

{196} FAITH. This brings to my mind that of Moses, by which he
describeth the beast that is clean.  [Lev. 11:3-7; Deut. 14:6-8]
He is such a one that parteth the hoof and cheweth the cud; not
that parteth the hoof only, or that cheweth the cud only.  The
hare cheweth the cud, but yet is unclean, because he parteth not
the hoof.  And this truly resembleth Talkative; he cheweth the cud,
he seeketh knowledge, he cheweth upon the word; but he divideth
not the hoof, he parteth not with the way of sinners; but, as the
hare, he retaineth the foot of a dog or bear, and therefore he is
unclean.

CHR. You have spoken, for aught I know, the true gospel sense
of those texts.  And I will add another thing:  Paul calleth some
men, yea, and those great talkers, too, sounding brass and tinkling
cymbals; that is, as he expounds them in another place, things
without life, giving sound.  [1 Cor. 13:1-3; 14:7] Things without
life, that is, without the true faith and grace of the gospel;
and consequently, things that shall never be placed in the kingdom
of heaven among those that are the children of life; though their
sound, by their talk, be as if it were the tongue or voice of an
angel.

FAITH. Well, I was not so fond of his company at first, but I am
as sick of it now.  What shall we do to be rid of him?

CHR. Take my advice, and do as I bid you, and you shall find that
he will soon be sick of your company too, except God shall touch
his heart, and turn it.

FAITH. What would you have me to do?

CHR. Why, go to him, and enter into some serious discourse about
the power of religion; and ask him plainly (when he has approved
of it, for that he will) whether this thing be set up in his heart,
house, or conversation.

{197} FAITH. Then Faithful stepped forward again, and said to
Talkative, Come, what cheer?  How is it now?

TALK. Thank you, well.  I thought we should have had a great deal
of talk by this time.

{198} FAITH. Well, if you will, we will fall to it now; and since
you left it with me to state the question, let it be this:  How doth
the saving grace of God discover itself when it is in the heart of
man?

Talkative's false discovery of a work of grace

TALK. I perceive, then, that our talk must be about the power of
things.  Well, it is a very good question, and I shall be willing
to answer you.  And take my answer in brief, thus:  First, Where
the grace of God is in the heart, it causeth there a great outcry
against sin.  Secondly--

FAITH. Nay, hold, let us consider of one at once.  I think you
should rather say, It shows itself by inclining the soul to abhor
its sin.

TALK. Why, what difference is there between crying out against,
and abhorring of sin?

{199} FAITH. Oh, a great deal.  A man may cry out against sin of
policy, but he cannot abhor it, but by virtue of a godly antipathy
against it.  I have heard many cry out against sin in the pulpit,
who yet can abide it well enough in the heart, house, and conversation.
Joseph's mistress cried out with a loud voice, as if she had been
very holy; but she would willingly, notwithstanding that, have
committed uncleanness with him.  Some cry out against sin even as
the mother cries out against her child in her lap, when she calleth
it slut and naughty girl, and then falls to hugging and kissing
it.

TALK. You lie at the catch, I perceive.

{200} FAITH. No, not I; I am only for setting things right.  But
what is the second thing whereby you would prove a discovery of a
work of grace in the heart?

TALK. Great knowledge of gospel mysteries.

FAITH. This sign should have been first; but first or last, it is
also false; for knowledge, great knowledge, may be obtained in the
mysteries of the gospel, and yet no work of grace in the soul.  [1
Cor. 13] Yea, if a man have all knowledge, he may yet be nothing,
and so consequently be no child of God.  When Christ said, "Do you
know all these things?"  and the disciples had answered, Yes; he
addeth, "Blessed are ye if ye do them."  He doth not lay the blessing
in the knowing of them, but in the doing of them.  Above all is
the bright blue sky.

8. Look at the picture again. At a short distance from the water you
see a village. It has a wall round it, and outside the wall is a
ditch. In October the ditch is full of water; in spring it is
dry.

9. In and near this ditch the children and the dogs of the villages
play together. You can see two boys in the picture. One of them
is standing by his mother. The other boy is riding on a
buffalo.

10. In the middle of the village there is an open space.

Sometimes this space is covered with bright green grass.

Round it are rows of palm trees. The house of the chief stands on
one side of this green.

11. Every village has its well, and every well has its water-wheel
for drawing up the water.

By the side of the well the old men of the village sit smoking and
chatting.

The women come to the well to fill their pitchers with water.

12. All the houses are built of Nile mud. This mud is dug out of the
banks of the river. It is mixed with a little chopped straw to
hold it together. Then it is put into moulds. After a time it is
turned out of the moulds, and is left to dry in the sun.

[Illustration: The Chief City of Egypt.

(From the picture by Talbot Kelly, R.I.)]
* * * * * 
6. CHILDREN OF EGYPT.
[Illustration: {An Egyptian woman}]
1. In the picture you see two of the women of Egypt. One of them
is standing at the edge of the river. She is filling her pitcher
with water. The other woman is carrying a lamb in her arms.
2. The people of Egypt have changed but little since the days of
Moses.
The men have brown faces, white teeth, and bright black eyes. Most
of them wear beards and shave their heads.
3. The women wear long dark cloaks.[Ps.
38:18, Jer. 31:19, Gal. 2:16, Acts 4:12, Matt. 5:6, Rev. 21:6]
Now, according to the strength or weakness of his faith in his
Saviour, so is his joy and peace, so is his love to holiness, so
are his desires to know him more, and also to serve him in this
world.  But though I say it discovereth itself thus unto him, yet
it is but seldom that he is able to conclude that this is a work
of grace; because his corruptions now, and his abused reason, make
his mind to misjudge in this matter; therefore, in him that hath
this work, there is required a very sound judgement before he can,
with steadiness, conclude that this is a work of grace.

{202} To others, it is thus discovered:

1.  By an experimental confession of his faith in Christ.  [Rom.
10:10, Phil. 1:27, Matt. 5:19]

2.  By a life answerable to that confession; to wit, a life of
holiness, heart-holiness, family-holiness, (if he hath a family),
and by conversation-holiness in the world which, in the general,
teacheth him, inwardly, to abhor his sin, and himself for that, in
secret; to suppress it in his family and to promote holiness in
the world; not by talk only, as a hypocrite or talkative person may
do, but by a practical subjection, in faith and love, to the power
of the Word.  [John 14:15, Ps. 50:23, Job 42:5-6, Eze. 20:43]
And now, Sir, as to this brief description of the work of grace,
and also the discovery of it, if you have aught to object, object;
if not, then give me leave to propound to you a second question.

{203} TALK. Nay, my part is not now to object, but to hear; let
me, therefore, have your second question.

FAITH. It is this:  Do you experience this first part of this
description of it?  and doth your life and conversation testify the
same?  or standeth your religion in word or in tongue, and not in
deed and truth?  Pray, if you incline to answer me in this, say
no more than you know the God above will say Amen to; and also
nothing but what your conscience can justify you in; for not he
that commendeth himself is approved, but whom the Lord commendeth.
Besides, to say I am thus and thus, when my conversation, and all
my neighbours, tell me I lie, is great wickedness.

{204} TALK. Then Talkative at first began to blush; but, recovering
himself, thus he replied:  You come now to experience, to conscience,
and God; and to appeal to him for justification of what is spoken.
This kind of discourse I did not expect; nor am I disposed to
give an answer to such questions, because I count not myself bound
thereto, unless you take upon you to be a catechiser, and, though
you should so do, yet I may refuse to make you my judge.  But, I
pray, will you tell me why you ask me such questions?

{205} FAITH. Because I saw you forward to talk, and because I knew
not that you had aught else but notion.  Besides, to tell you all
the truth, I have heard of you, that you are a man whose religion
lies in talk, and that your conversation gives this your mouth-profession
the lie.

Faithful's plain dealing with Talkative

They say, you are a spot among Christians; and that religion fareth
the worse for your ungodly conversation; that some have already
stumbled at your wicked ways, and that more are in danger of being
destroyed thereby; your religion, and an ale-house, and covetousness,
and uncleanness, and swearing, and lying, and vain-company keeping,
&c., will stand together.  The proverb is true of you which is
said of a whore, to wit, that she is a shame to all women; so are
you a shame to all professors.

TALK. Since you are ready to take up reports and to judge so rashly
as you do, I cannot but conclude you are some peevish or melancholy
man, not fit to be discoursed with; and so adieu.

{206} CHR. Then came up Christian, and said to his brother, I told
you how it would happen:  your words and his lusts could not agree;
he had rather leave your company than reform his life.  But he is
gone, as I said; let him go, the loss is no man's but his own; he
has saved us the trouble of going from him; for he continuing (as
I suppose he will do) as he is, he would have been but a blot in our
company:  besides, the apostle says, "From such withdraw thyself."

FAITH. But I am glad we had this little discourse with him; it
may happen that he will think of it again:  however, I have dealt
plainly with him, and so am clear of his blood, if he perisheth.

{207} CHR. You did well to talk so plainly to him as you did;
there is but little of this faithful dealing with men now-a-days,
and that makes religion to stink so in the nostrils of many, as it
doth; for they are these talkative fools whose religion is only in
word, and are debauched and vain in their conversation, that (being
so much admitted into the fellowship of the godly) do puzzle the
world, blemish Christianity, and grieve the sincere.  I wish that
all men would deal with such as you have done:  then should they
either be made more conformable to religion, or the company of
saints would be too hot for them.  Then did Faithful say,


  How Talkative at first lifts up his plumes!
  How bravely doth he speak!  How he presumes
  To drive down all before him!  But so soon
  As Faithful talks of heart-work, like the moon
  That's past the full, into the wane he goes.
  And so will all, but he that HEART-WORK knows.


{208} Thus they went on talking of what they had seen by the way,
and so made that way easy which would otherwise, no doubt, have
been tedious to them; for now they went through a wilderness.

{209} Now, when they were got almost quite out of this wilderness,
Faithful chanced to cast his eye back, and espied one coming after
them, and he knew him.  Oh!  said Faithful to his brother, who
comes yonder?  Then Christian looked, and said, It is my good friend
Evangelist.  Ay, and my good friend too, said Faithful, for it was
he that set me in the way to the gate.  Now was Evangelist come up
to them, and thus saluted them:

{210} EVAN. Peace be with you, dearly beloved; and peace be to your
helpers.

CHR. Welcome, welcome, my good Evangelist, the sight of
thy countenance brings to my remembrance thy ancient kindness and
unwearied labouring for my eternal good.

FAITH. And a thousand times welcome, said good Faithful.  Thy
company, O sweet Evangelist, how desirable it is to us poor pilgrims!

EVAN. Then said Evangelist, How hath it fared with you, my friends,
since the time of our last parting?  What have you met with, and
how have you behaved yourselves?

{211} Then Christian and Faithful told him of all things that had
happened to them in the way; and how, and with what difficulty,
they had arrived at that place.

{212} EVAN. Right glad am I, said Evangelist, not that you have
met with trials, but that you have been victors; and for that you
have, notwithstanding many weaknesses, continued in the way to this
very day.

I say, right glad am I of this thing, and that for mine own sake
and yours.  I have sowed, and you have reaped:  and the day is
coming, when both he that sowed and they that reaped shall rejoice
together; that is, if you hold out:  "for in due season ye shall
reap, if ye faint not."  [John 4:36, Gal. 6:9] The crown is before
you, and it is an incorruptible one; so run, that you may obtain
it.  [1 Cor. 9:24-27] Some there be that set out for this crown,
and, after they have gone far for it, another comes in, and takes
it from them:  hold fast, therefore, that you have; let no man
take your crown.  [Rev. 3:11] You are not yet out of the gun-shot
of the devil; you have not resisted unto blood, striving against
sin; let the kingdom be always before you, and believe steadfastly
concerning things that are invisible.  Let nothing that is on this
side the other world get within you; and, above all, look well to
your own hearts, and to the lusts thereof, "for they are deceitful
above all things, and desperately wicked"; set your faces like a
flint; you have all power in heaven and earth on your side.

{213} CHR. Then Christian thanked him for his exhortation; but
told him, withal, that they would have him speak further to them
for their help the rest of the way, and the rather, for that they
well knew that he was a prophet, and could tell them of things that
might happen unto them, and also how they might resist and overcome
them.  To which request Faithful also consented.  So Evangelist
began as followeth:--

EVAN. My sons, you have heard, in the words of the truth of
the gospel, that you must, through many tribulations, enter into
the kingdom of heaven.  And, again, that in every city bonds and
afflictions abide in you; and therefore you cannot expect that you
should go long on your pilgrimage without them, in some sort or
other.  You have found something of the truth of these testimonies
upon you already, and more will immediately follow; for now, as
you see, you are almost out of this wilderness, and therefore you
will soon come into a town that you will by and by see before you;
and in that town you will be hardly beset with enemies, who will
strain hard but they will kill you; and be you sure that one or
both of you must seal the testimony which you hold, with blood; but
be you faithful unto death, and the King will give you a crown of
life.

{214} He that shall die there, although his death will be unnatural,
and his pain perhaps great, he will yet have the better of his
fellow; not only because he will be arrived at the Celestial City
soonest, but because he will escape many miseries that the other
will meet with in the rest of his journey.  But when you are come
to the town, and shall find fulfilled what I have here related,
then remember your friend, and quit yourselves like men, and commit
the keeping of your souls to your God in well-doing, as unto a
faithful Creator.

{215} Then I saw in my dream, that when they were got out of the
wilderness, they presently saw a town before them, and the name of
that town is Vanity; and at the town there is a fair kept, called
Vanity Fair:  it is kept all the year long.  It beareth the name
of Vanity Fair because the town where it is kept is lighter than
vanity; and, also because all that is there sold, or that cometh
thither, is vanity.  As is the saying of the wise, "all that cometh
is vanity."  [Eccl. 1; 2:11,17; 11:8; Isa. 11:17]

{216} This fair is no new-erected business, but a thing of ancient
standing; I will show you the original of it.

Almost five thousand years agone, there were pilgrims walking to
the Celestial City, as these two honest persons are:  and Beelzebub,
Apollyon, and Legion, with their companions, perceiving by the
path that the pilgrims made, that their way to the city lay through
this town of Vanity, they contrived here to set up a fair; a fair
wherein, should be sold all sorts of vanity, and that it should last
all the year long:  therefore at this fair are all such merchandise
sold, as houses, lands, trades, places, honours, preferments, titles,
countries, kingdoms, lusts, pleasures, and delights of all sorts,
as whores, bawds, wives, husbands, children, masters, servants,
lives, blood, bodies, souls, silver, gold, pearls, precious stones,
and what not.

And, moreover, at this fair there is at all times to be seen juggling
cheats, games, plays, fools, apes, knaves, and rogues, and that of
every kind.

Here are to be seen, too, and that for nothing, thefts, murders,
adulteries, false swearers, and that of a blood-red colour.

{217} And as in other fairs of less moment, there are the several
rows and streets, under their proper names, where such and such
wares are vended; so here likewise you have the proper places,
rows, streets, (viz.  countries and kingdoms), where the wares of
this fair are soonest to be found.  Here is the Britain Row, the
French Row, the Italian Row, the Spanish Row, the German Row, where
several sorts of vanities are to be sold.  But, as in other fairs,
some one commodity is as the chief of all the fair, so the ware
of Rome and her merchandise is greatly promoted in this fair; only
our English nation, with some others, have taken a dislike thereat.

{218} Now, as I said, the way to the Celestial City lies just
through this town where this lusty fair is kept; and he that will
go to the city, and yet not go through this town, must needs go out
of the world.  [1 Cor. 5:10] The Prince of princes himself, when
here, went through this town to his own country, and that upon a
fair day too; yea, and as I think, it was Beelzebub, the chief lord
of this fair, that invited him to buy of his vanities; yea, would
have made him lord of the fair, would he but have done him reverence
as he went through the town.  [Matt. 4:8, Luke 4:5-7] Yea, because
he was such a person of honour, Beelzebub had him from street to
street, and showed him all the kingdoms of the world in a little
time, that he might, if possible, allure the Blessed One to cheapen
and buy some of his vanities; but he had no mind to the merchandise,
and therefore left the town, without laying out so much as one
farthing upon these vanities.  This fair, therefore, is an ancient
thing, of long standing, and a very great fair.

{219} Now these pilgrims, as I said, must needs go through this
fair.  Well, so they did:  but, behold, even as they entered into
the fair, all the people in the fair were moved, and the town
itself as it were in a hubbub about them; and that for several
reasons:  for--

{220} First, The pilgrims were clothed with such kind of raiment
as was diverse from the raiment of any that traded in that fair.
The people, therefore, of the fair, made a great gazing upon them:
some said they were fools, some they were bedlams, and some they
are outlandish men.  [1 Cor. 2:7-8]

{221} Secondly, And as they wondered at their apparel, so they did
likewise at their speech; for few could understand what they said;
they naturally spoke the language of Canaan, but they that kept
the fair were the men of this world; so that, from one end of the
fair to the other, they seemed barbarians each to the other.

{222} Thirdly, But that which did not a little amuse the merchandisers
was, that these pilgrims set very light by all their wares; they
cared not so much as to look upon them; and if they called upon them
to buy, they would put their fingers in their ears, and cry, Turn
away mine eyes from beholding vanity, and look upwards, signifying
that their trade and traffic was in heaven.  [Ps. 119:37, Phil.
3:19-20]

{223} One chanced mockingly, beholding the carriage of the men, to
say unto them, What will ye buy?  But they, looking gravely upon
him, answered, "We buy the truth."  [Prov. 23:23] At that there
was an occasion taken to despise the men the more; some mocking,
some taunting, some speaking reproachfully, and some calling upon
others to smite them.  At last things came to a hubbub and great
stir in the fair, insomuch that all order was confounded.  Now was
word presently brought to the great one of the fair, who quickly
came down, and deputed some of his most trusty friends to take these
men into examination, about whom the fair was almost overturned.  So
the men were brought to examination; and they that sat upon them,
asked them whence they came, whither they went, and what they did
there, in such an unusual garb?  The men told them that they were
pilgrims and strangers in the world, and that they were going to
their own country, which was the heavenly Jerusalem, [Heb. 11:13-16]
and that they had given no occasion to the men of the town, nor
yet to the merchandisers, thus to abuse them, and to let them in
their journey, except it was for that, when one asked them what
they would buy, they said they would buy the truth.  But they that
were appointed to examine them did not believe them to be any other
than bedlams and mad, or else such as came to put all things into
a confusion in the fair.  Therefore they took them and beat them,
and besmeared them with dirt, and then put them into the cage, that
they might be made a spectacle to all the men of the fair.


  Behold Vanity Fair!  the Pilgrims there
  Are chain'd and stand beside:
  Even so it was our Lord pass'd here,
  And on Mount Calvary died.


{224} There, therefore, they lay for some time, and were made the
objects of any man's sport, or malice, or revenge, the great one of
the fair laughing still at all that befell them.  But the men being
patient, and not rendering railing for railing, but contrariwise,
blessing, and good words for bad, and kindness for injuries done,
some men in the fair that were more observing, and less prejudiced
than the rest, began to check and blame the baser sort for their
continual abuses done by them to the men; they, therefore, in
angry manner, let fly at them again, counting them as bad as the
men in the cage, and telling them that they seemed confederates, and
should be made partakers of their misfortunes.  The other replied
that, for aught they could see, the men were quiet, and sober, and
intended nobody any harm; and that there were many that traded in
their fair that were more worthy to be put into the cage, yea, and
pillory too, than were the men they had abused.  Thus, after divers
words had passed on both sides, the men behaving themselves all
the while very wisely and soberly before them, they fell to some
blows among themselves, and did harm one to another.  Then were
these two poor men brought before their examiners again, and there
charged as being guilty of the late hubbub that had been in the
fair.  To these may be added, that an urn has been some time ago
dug up in this neighbourhood, containing a thousand silver denarii
marked from Antoninus Pius to Philip, during which tract of time
Britain was probably a Roman province. And, lastly, the vestiges of
a true Roman via running from Shoreham towards Lewes, at a
small distance above this town have been lately discovered by an
ingenious gentleman truly conversant in matters of this nature.

The light sometimes obtained in these dark matters from a
similitude of sounds in the ancient and modern names of places,
is not to be had in assisting the present conjecture. Its ancient
one, as far as I can learn, is no way discoverable; and its modern
one may be owing either to this town's belonging formerly to, or
being countenanced in a particular manner by a Bishop Brighthelm,
who, during the Saxon government of the island, lived in this
neighbourhood: or perhaps may be deduced from the ships of this
town having their helms better ornamented than those of their
neighbouring ones.

It is true here are no hypocausts, Mosaic pavements, inscriptions,
or any other delicate monuments of Roman antiquity,[4] that might
corroborate in a stronger manner this supposition: these, if any
such existed here, have been defaced by time, or destroyed by the
undiscerning inhabitants of the place.

During the Saxon aera, this town was almost the centre of the kingdom
of the South Saxons; and consequently could not be the scene of
much action.
It submitted to the various revolutions which prevailed at different
times, until the Norman conquest.

The conqueror landed at Hastings forty miles distant to the east of
this town; so that his troops never came near it. Yet, the fate of
England being decided by the bloody engagement at Battel, this
town, with many other large possessions in the county, was granted
to William de Warren, who married the Conqueror's daughter: and he
soon made it part of the endowment of that rich priory, which he
founded at Lewes.

This resigning of the town into the hands of monks was a fatal
stroke to its ancient greatness. Too attentive to their own
immediate interest, and too regardless of that of their vassals, as
soon as they were in possession of it, they laboured, and with
success, to obtain an exemption for it from supplying the king with
ships, or affording him such other succour, as a large and powerful
maritime town ought to have done, on the pretence of its being part
of a religious estate.

(_To be concluded in our next_.)

[1] It appears to have been called Brighton in a terrier of lands,
dated in 1660.

  
  [2] In the years 1800 and 1801, when wheat was
  at an unprecedented price, the occupiers of
  farms on the South Downs converted much of their downland into
tillage, from which they acquired abundant crops of corn.

The green sward when once ploughed, can never be restored to its
former verdure, and although grass seeds have been yearly sown in
succession for more than 80 years upon down formerly broken up and
converted into arable land, the distinctions between these parts
and the original down is still clearly perceptible

.

[3] See the remains of a Druidical altar at Goldstone (Gor or
Thor stone) bottom, about a mile to the north-west of the town.

[4] A Mosaic pavement has been discovered at Lancing, within nine
miles west of the town.

* * * * *

FINE ARTS
* * * * *

LARGE PAINTED WINDOW OF THE CRUCIFIXION.

Mr. Wilmshurst has nearly completed a fine copy, on glass, of Mr.

Hilton's celebrated picture of the Crucifixion. It consists of
118 squares, 15 by 21 inches each, fitted into copper frames, in a
large centre and two sides; in all 19 feet high, and 15 feet wide,
intended for a Venetian window-case in St. George's Church,
Liverpool. The original picture was painted for this purpose,
by commission from the Corporation, in the year 1826, for which
the artist received 1,000 guineas. Perhaps in all the productions
of British art there is not a more appropriate subject for the
embellishment of a church, than Hilton's representation of this
sublime event.

The countenance and figure of the crucified Saviour are admirably
drawn: his placid resignation is finely contrasted with the muscular
figures of the two thieves struggling in the last agonies of torture:
the spike-nails and blood-drops of the hands and feet, and the title
on the cross are closely preserved.

The group of women at the foot of the cross, the lifeless form,
drooping hand, anxious eye, and gushing tear, the terrified and
afflicted populace, and the unperturbed devotional gaze of a few
by-standers are too among the masterly beauties of this composition.
The lights are well kept, and the entire effect of the Window is
that of awe-inspiring grandeur.

It is somewhat curious, that on the evening Mr. Wilmshurst put
together his Liverpool Window, his larger Window of the Field of
Cloth of Gold, was totally destroyed by fire, and by the next morning
all its glories were melted (or vitrified) into tears.

* * * * *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

* * * * * 

THE TWA BURDIES.

BY THE ETTRICK SHEPHERD.

When the winter day had past an' gane, Twa wee burdies came into our
hearth stane; An' they lookit a'round them wi' little din, As if they
had living souls within.

"O, bonny burdies, come tell to me If ye are twa burdies o' this
countrye?
An' where ye were gaun when ye tint your gate, A-winging the winter
shower sae late?"
"We are cauld, we are cauld--ye maun let us bide, For our father's
gane, an' our mother's a bride:
But in her bride's bed though she be, We would rather cour on the
earth wi' thee!"
"O, bonny burdies, my heart is sair To see twa motherless broods
sae fair.

But flee away, burdies! flee away!
For I darenae bide wi' you till day."
"Ye maun let us bide till our feathers dry, For the time of our
trial's drawing nigh.

A voice will call at the hour eleven, An' a naked sword appear in
heaven!

"There's an offering to make, but not by men, On altar as white as
the snow of the glen-- There's a choice to be made, and a vow to
pay, And blood to spill ere the break of day."
"O, tell me, beings of marvellous birth, If ye are twa creatures
of heaven or earth?

For ye look an' ye speak, I watnae how-- But I'm fear'd, I'm fear'd,
little burdies for you!"

"Ye needna be fear'd, for it's no our part To injure the kind and
the humble heart; And those whose trust is in heaven high, The
Angel of God will aye be nigh.

We were twa sisters bred in a bower, As gay as the lark an' as fair
as the flower; But few of the ills of this world we proved, Till
we were slain by the hands we loved.

Our bodies into the brake were flung, To feed the hawks and the ravens
young; And there our little bones reclined, And white they bleach'd
in the winter wind.

Our youngest sister found them there, And wiped them clean wi' her
yellow hair; And every day she sits and grieves, And covers them
o'er wi' the wabron leaves.

Then our twin souls they sought the sky, And were welcome guests
in the heavens high; And we gat our choice through all the spheres
What lives to lead for a thousand years.

Then humble, old matron, lend us thine aid, For this night the
choice is to be made; And we have sought thy lowly hearth For the
last advice thou giv'st on earth.

Say, shall we skim o'er this earth below, Beholding its scenes of
joy and woe; And try to reward the virtuous heart, And make the
unjust and the sinner smart?

Or shall we choose the star of love, In a holy twilight still
to move; Or fly to frolic, light and boon, On the silver mountains
of the moon?

O, tell us, for we hae nane beside!
Our daddy's gane, and our mammy's a bride.
She is blitliely laid in her bridal sheet, But a spirit stands at
her bed feet.

Ay, though she be laid in her bridal bed, There is guiltless blood
upon her head; And on her soul the hue of a crime, That will never
wash out till the end of time.

Advise, advise! dear matron, advise!
For you are humble, devout, and wise.
We ask a last advice from you-- Our hour is come--what shall we
do?"

"O, wondrous creatures, ye maun allow I naething can ken of beings
like you; But ere the voice calls at eleven, Go ask your Father who
is in heaven."
Away, away, the burdies flew Aye singing, "Adieu, kind heart,
adieu!
They that hae blood on their hands may rue Afore the day-beam kiss
the dew.

There's naught sae heinous in human life As taking a helpless
baby's life; There's naething sae kind aneath the sky As cheering
the heart that soon maun die."
The morning came wi' drift an' snaw, And with it news frae the
bridal-ha', That death had been busy, and blood was spilt, May
Heaven preserve us all from guilt!

They tell of a deed--Believe't who can?
Such tale was never told by man; The bridegroom is gone in fire and
flood, And the bridal-bed is steep'd with blood!

The poor auld matron died ere day, And was found as life was passing
away; And twa bonny burdies sang in the bed, The one at the feet,
the other the head.

Now I have heard tales, and told them too, Hut this is beyond what
I could do; And far hae I ridden, and far hae I gane, But burdies
like these I never saw nane.

_Fraser's Magazine._
* * * * * 

ELLISTON AND THE ASS' HEAD.

Elliston was, in his day, the Napoleon of Drury-lane, but, like
the conqueror at Austerlitz, he suffered his declensions, and the
Surrey became to him a St. Helena. However, once an eagle always an
eagle; and Robert William was no less aquiline in the day of
adversity than in his palmy time of patent prosperity.

  He was born to carry things with a high hand,
  and he but fulfilled his destiny. The
  anecdote which we are about to relate, is
  one of the ten thousand instances of his lordly bearing.

When, the season before last, "no effects" was written over the
treasury-door of Covent-garden theatre, it will be remembered that
several actors proffered their services _gratis_, in aid of the
then humble, but now arrogant and persecuting establishment.

Among these patriots was Mr. T.P. Cooke--(it was just after his
promotion to the honorary rank of Admiral of the Blue).
The Covent-garden managers jumped at the offer of the actor, who
was in due time announced as having, in the true play-bill style,
"most generously volunteered his services for six nights!"

  Cooke was advertised for _William_; Elliston
  having "most generously lent [N.B. this was
  _not_ put in the bill] his musical score of _Black-Eyed
  Susan_, together with the identical captains'
  coats, worn at a hundred-and-fifty court-martials
  at the Surrey Theatre!"

Cooke--the score--the coats, were all accepted, and made the most
of by the now prosecuting managers of Covent-garden, who cleared
out of the said Cooke, score, and coats, one thousand pounds at
half-price on the first six nights of their exhibition. This is a
fact; nay, we have lately heard it stated that all the sum was
specially banked, to be used in a future war against the minors.
Cooke was then engaged for twelve more nights, at ten pounds per
night--a hackney-coach bringing him each night, hot from the
Surrey stage, where he had previously made bargemen weep, and
thrown nursery-maids into convulsions.

Well, time drove on, and Cooke drove into the country. Elliston,
who was always classical, having a due veneration for that divine
"creature," Shakspeare, announced, on the anniversary of the poet's
birth-day, a representation of the Stratford Jubilee. The wardrobe
was ransacked, the property-man was on the alert; and, after much
preparation, every thing was in readiness for the imposing spectacle.

--No! There was one thing forgotten--one important "property!"
_Bottom_ must be a "feature" in the procession, and there was no
ass's head!

it would not do for the acting manager to apologize for the absence
of the head--no, _he_ could not have the face to do it.

A head must be procured!

Every one was in doubt and trepidation, when hope sounded in the
clarion-like voice of Robert William. "Ben!"

exclaimed Elliston, "take pen, ink, and paper, and write as
follows!" Ben (Mr.

Benjamin Fairbrother, the late manager's most trusty secretary)
sat, "all ear" and Elliston, with finger on nether lip, proceeded.--
"My dear Charles,
I am about to represent, 'with entirely new dresses, scenery, and
decorations,' the Stratford Jubilee, in honour of the sweet swan
of Avon.

My scene-painter is the finest artist (except your Grieve) in
Europe--my tailor is no less a genius, and I lately raised the
salary of my property-man.

This will give you some idea of the capabilities of the
Surrey Theatre. However, in the hurry of "getting up," we have
forgotten one property--every thing is well with us but our _Bottom_,
and he wants a head. As it is too late to manufacture, not but that
my property-man is the cleverest in the world (except the property-man
of Covent-garden), can _you_, lend me an ass's head, and believe
me, my dear Charles,
Yours ever truly,

ROBERT WILLIAM ELLISTON."

"P.S. I had forgotten to acknowledge the return of the _Black-Eyed
Susan_ score, and coats. You were most welcome to them."
The letter was dispatched to Covent-garden Theatre, and in a
brief time the bearer returned with the following answer:--
"MY DEAR ROBERT,
It is with the most acute pain that I am compelled to refuse your
trifling request. You are aware, my dear Sir, of the unfortunate
situation of Covent-garden Theatre; it being at the present
moment, with all the 'dresses, scenery, and decorations,' in the
Court of Chancery, I cannot exercise that power which my friendship
would dictate.

I have spoken to Bartley, and he agrees with me (indeed, he always
does), that I cannot lend you an ass's head--he is an authority on
such a subject--without risking a reprimand from the Lord High
Chancellor. Trusting to your generosity, and to your liberal
construction of my refusal--and hoping that it will in no way
interrupt that mutually cordial friendship that has ever subsisted
between us.

Believe me, ever yours,
CHARLES KEMBLE."
"P.S. When I next see you advertised for _Rover_, I intend to leave
myself out of the bill to come and see it."

Of course this letter did not remain long unanswered. Ben was again
in requisition, and the following was the result of his labours:--
"DEAR CHARLES,
I regret the situation of Covent-garden Theatre--I also, for your
sake, deeply regret that the law does not permit you to send me the
'property' in question.

I knew that law alone could prevent you; for were it not for the
vigilance of Equity, such is my opinion of the management of
Covent-garden, that I am convinced, if left to the dictates of its
own judgment, it would be enabled to spare asses' heads, not to the
Surrey atone, but to every theatre in Christendom.
Yours ever truly, 
ROBERT WILLIAM ELLISTON."
"P.S. My wardrobe-keeper informs me that there are no less than
seven buttons missing from the captains' coats. However, I have
ordered their places to be instantaneously filled by others."
We entreat our readers not to receive the above as a squib of
invention.
We will not pledge ourselves that the letters are _verbatim_ from
the originals; but the loan of the Surrey music and coats to
Covent-garden, with the refusal of Covent-garden's ass's head to
the Surrey, is "true as holy writ.".

{248} CHR. I thought, indeed, that you were the man that I heard
of; and to tell you what I think, I fear this name belongs to you
more properly than you are willing we should think it doth.

BY-ENDS. Well, if you will thus imagine, I cannot help it; you
shall find me a fair company-keeper, if you will still admit me
your associate.

CHR. If you will go with us, you must go against wind and tide;
the which, I perceive, is against your opinion; you must also own
religion in his rags, as well as when in his silver slippers; and
stand by him, too, when bound in irons, as well as when he walketh
the streets with applause.

BY-ENDS. You must not impose, nor lord it over my faith; leave me
to my liberty, and let me go with you.

CHR. Not a step further, unless you will do in what I propound as
we.

Then said By-ends, I shall never desert my old principles, since
they are harmless and profitable.  If I may not go with you, I must
do as I did before you overtook me, even go by myself, until some
overtake me that will be glad of my company.

{249} Now I saw in my dream that Christian and Hopeful forsook him,
and kept their distance before him; but one of them looking back,
saw three men following Mr. By-ends, and behold, as they came up
with him, he made them a very low conge {conge'}; and they also
gave him a compliment.  The men's names were Mr. Hold-the-world,
Mr. Money-love, and Mr. Save-all; men that Mr. By-ends had formerly
been acquainted with; for in their minority they were schoolfellows,
and were taught by one Mr. Gripe-man, a schoolmaster in Love-gain,
which is a market town in the county of Coveting, in the north.  This
schoolmaster taught them the art of getting, either by violence,
cozenage, flattery, lying, or by putting on the guise of religion;
and these four gentlemen had attained much of the art of their
master, so that they could each of them have kept such a school
themselves.

{250} Well, when they had, as I said, thus saluted each other, Mr.
Money-love said to Mr. By-ends, Who are they upon the road before
us?  (for Christian and Hopeful were yet within view).

By-ends' character of the pilgrims

BY-ENDS. They are a couple of far countrymen, that, after their
mode, are going on pilgrimage.

MONEY-LOVE. Alas!  Why did they not stay, that we might have had
their good company?  for they, and we, and you, Sir, I hope, are
all going on pilgrimage.

BY-ENDS. We are so, indeed; but the men before us are so rigid,
and love so much their own notions, and do also so lightly esteem
the opinions of others, that let a man be never so godly, yet if
he jumps not with them in all things, they thrust him quite out of
their company.

{251} SAVE-ALL. That is bad, but we read of some that are righteous
overmuch; and such men's rigidness prevails with them to judge and
condemn all but themselves.  But, I pray, what, and how many, were
the things wherein you differed?

BY-ENDS. Why, they, after their headstrong manner, conclude that
it is duty to rush on their journey all weathers; and I am for
waiting for wind and tide.  They are for hazarding all for God at
a clap; and I am for taking all advantages to secure my life and
estate.  They are for holding their notions, though all other men
are against them; but I am for religion in what, and so far as the
times, and my safety, will bear it.  They are for religion when
in rags and contempt; but I am for him when he walks in his golden
slippers, in the sunshine, and with applause.

{252} HOLD-THE-WORLD. Ay, and hold you there still, good Mr.
By-ends; for, for my part, I can count him but a fool, that, having
the liberty to keep what he has, shall be so unwise as to lose it.
Let us be wise as serpents; it is best to make hay when the sun
shines; you see how the bee lieth still all winter, and bestirs her
only when she can have profit with pleasure.  God sends sometimes
rain, and sometimes sunshine; if they be such fools to go through
the first, yet let us be content to take fair weather along with
us.  For my part, I like that religion best that will stand with
the security of God's good blessings unto us; for who can imagine,
that is ruled by his reason, since God has bestowed upon us the
good things of this life, but that he would have us keep them for
his sake?  Abraham and Solomon grew rich in religion.  And Job
says, that a good man shall lay up gold as dust.  But he must not
be such as the men before us, if they be as you have described
them.

SAVE-ALL. I think that we are all agreed in this matter, and
therefore there needs no more words about it.

MONEY-LOVE. No, there needs no more words about this matter, indeed;
for he that believes neither Scripture nor reason (and you see we
have both on our side) neither knows his own liberty, nor seeks
his own safety.

{253} BY-ENDS. My brethren, we are, as you see, going all on
pilgrimage; and, for our better diversion from things that are bad,
give me leave to propound unto you this question:--

Suppose a man, a minister, or a tradesman, &c., should have an
advantage lie before him, to get the good blessings of this life,
yet so as that he can by no means come by them except, in appearance
at least, he becomes extraordinarily zealous in some points
of religion that he meddled not with before, may he not use these
means to attain his end, and yet be a right honest man?

{254} MONEY-LOVE. I see the bottom of your question; and, with these
gentlemen's good leave, I will endeavour to shape you an answer.
And first, to speak to your question as it concerns a minister
himself:  Suppose a minister, a worthy man, possessed but of a very
small benefice, and has in his eye a greater, more fat, and plump
by far; he has also now an opportunity of getting of it, yet so as
by being more studious, by preaching more frequently and zealously,
and, because the temper of the people requires it, by altering
of some of his principles; for my part, I see no reason but a man
may do this, (provided he has a call), ay, and more a great deal
besides, and yet be an honest man.  For why--

{255} 1.  His desire of a greater benefice is lawful, (this cannot
be contradicted), since it is set before him by Providence; so then,
he may get it, if he can, making no question for conscience' sake.

{256} 2.  Besides, his desire after that benefice makes him more
studious, a more zealous preacher, &c., and so makes him a better
man; yea, makes him better improve his parts, which is according
to the mind of God.

{257} 3.  Now, as for his complying with the temper of his people,
by dissenting, to serve them, some of his principles, this argueth,
(1) That he is of a self-denying, temper; (2) Of a sweet and winning
deportment; and so (3) more fit for the ministerial function.

{258} 4.  I conclude, then, that a minister that changes a small
for a great, should not, for so doing, be judged as covetous; but
rather, since he has improved in his parts and industry thereby,
be counted as one that pursues his call, and the opportunity put
into his hands to do good.

{259} And now to the second part of the question, which concerns
the tradesman you mentioned.  Suppose such a one to have but a poor
employ in the world, but by becoming religious, he may mend his
market, perhaps get a rich wife, or more and far better customers
to his shop; for my part, I see no reason but that this may be
lawfully done.  For why--

1.  To become religious is a virtue, by what means soever a man
becomes so.

2.  Nor is it unlawful to get a rich wife, or more custom to my
shop.

3.  Besides, the man that gets these by becoming religious, gets
that which is good, of them that are good, by becoming good himself;
so then here is a good wife, and good customers, and good gain,
and all these by becoming religious, which is good; therefore, to
become religious, to get all these, is a good and profitable design.

{260} This answer, thus made by this Mr. Money-love to Mr. By-ends's
question, was highly applauded by them all; wherefore they concluded
upon the whole, that it was most wholesome and advantageous.  And
because, as they thought, no man was able to contradict it, and
because Christian and Hopeful were yet within call, they jointly
agreed to assault them with the question as soon as they overtook
them; and the rather because they had opposed Mr. By-ends before.
So they called after them, and they stopped, and stood still till
they came up to them; but they concluded, as they went, that not Mr.
By-ends, but old Mr. Hold-the-world, should propound the question
to them, because, as they supposed, their answer to him would be
without the remainder of that heat that was kindled betwixt Mr.
By-ends and them, at their parting a little before.

{260} So they came up to each other, and after a short salutation,
Mr. Hold-the-world propounded the question to Christian and his
fellow, and bid them to answer it if they could.

CHR. Then said Christian, Even a babe in religion may answer ten
thousand such questions.  For if it be unlawful to follow Christ for
loaves, (as it is in the sixth of John), how much more abominable
is it to make of him and religion a stalking-horse to get and enjoy
the world!  Nor do we find any other than heathens, hypocrites,
devils, and witches, that are of this opinion.

{261} 1.  Heathens; for when Hamor and Shechem had a mind to the
daughter and cattle of Jacob, and saw that there was no way for them
to come at them, but by becoming circumcised, they say to their
companions, If every male of us be circumcised, as they are circumcised,
shall not their cattle, and their substance, and every beast of
theirs, be ours?  Their daughter and their cattle were that which
they sought to obtain, and their religion the stalking-horse they
made use of to come at them.  Read the whole story.  [Gen. 34:20-23]

{262} 2.  The hypocritical Pharisees were also of this religion;
long prayers were their pretence, but to get widows' houses was
their intent; and greater damnation was from God their judgment.
[Luke 20:46-47]

{263} 3.  Judas the devil was also of this religion; he was religious
for the bag, that he might be possessed of what was therein; but
he was lost, cast away, and the very son of perdition.

{264} 4.  Simon the witch was of this religion too; for he would
have had the Holy Ghost, that he might have got money therewith;
and his sentence from Peter's mouth was according.  [Acts 8:19-22]

{265} 5.  Neither will it out of my mind, but that that man that
takes up religion for the world, will throw away religion for
the world; for so surely as Judas resigned the world in becoming
religious, so surely did he also sell religion and his Master for
the same.  To answer the question, therefore, affirmatively, as I
perceive you have done, and to accept of, as authentic, such answer,
is both heathenish, hypocritical, and devilish; and your reward
will be according to your works.  Then they stood staring one upon
another, but had not wherewith to answer Christian.  Hopeful also
approved of the soundness of Christian's answer; so there was a great
silence among them.  Mr. By-ends and his company also staggered
and kept behind, that Christian and Hopeful might outgo them.  Then
said Christian to his fellow, If these men cannot stand before the
sentence of men, what will they do with the sentence of God?  And
if they are mute when dealt with by vessels of clay, what will they
do when they shall be rebuked by the flames of a devouring fire?

{266} Then Christian and Hopeful outwent them again, and went till
they came to a delicate plain called Ease, where they went with
much content; but that plain was but narrow, so they were quickly
got over it.  Now at the further side of that plain was a little
hill called Lucre, and in that hill a silver mine, which some of
them that had formerly gone that way, because of the rarity of it,
had turned aside to see; but going too near the brink of the pit,
the ground being deceitful under them, broke, and they were slain;
some also had been maimed there, and could not, to their dying day,
be their own men again.

{267} Then I saw in my dream, that a little off the road, over
against the silver mine, stood Demas (gentlemanlike) to call to
passengers to come and see; who said to Christian and his fellow,
Ho!  turn aside hither, and I will show you a thing.

CHR. What thing so deserving as to turn us out of the way to see
it?

DEMAS. Here is a silver mine, and some digging in it for treasure.
If you will come, with a little pains you may richly provide for
yourselves.

{268} HOPE. Then said Hopeful, Let us go see.

CHR. Not I, said Christian, I have heard of this place before now;
and how many have there been slain; and besides that, treasure
is a snare to those that seek it; for it hindereth them in their
pilgrimage.  Then Christian called to Demas, saying, Is not the
place dangerous?  Hath it not hindered many in their pilgrimage?
[Hos. 14:8]

DEMAS. Not very dangerous, except to those that are careless, (but
withal, he blushed as he spake).

CHR. Then said Christian to Hopeful, Let us not stir a step, but
still keep on our way.

HOPE. I will warrant you, when By-ends comes up, if he hath the
same invitation as we, he will turn in thither to see.

CHR. No doubt thereof, for his principles lead him that way, and
a hundred to one but he dies there.

DEMAS. Then Demas called again, saying, But will you not come over
and see?

{269} CHR. Then Christian roundly answered, saying, Demas, thou
art an enemy to the right ways of the Lord of this way, and hast
been already condemned for thine own turning aside, by one of His
Majesty's judges [2 Tim. 4:10]; and why seekest thou to bring us
into the like condemnation?  Besides, if we at all turn aside, our
Lord and King will certainly hear thereof, and will there put us
to shame, where we would stand with boldness before him.

Demas cried again, that he also was one of their fraternity; and
that if they would tarry a little, he also himself would walk with
them.

{270} CHR. Then said Christian, What is thy name?  Is it not the
same by the which I have called thee?

DEMAS. Yes, my name is Demas; I am the son of Abraham.

CHR. I know you; Gehazi was your great-grandfather, and Judas your
father; and you have trod in their stePs. [2 Kings 5:20, Matt.
26:14,15, 27:1-5] It is but a devilish prank that thou usest;
thy father was hanged for a traitor, and thou deservest no better
reward.  Assure thyself, that when we come to the King, we will do
him word of this thy behaviour.  Thus they went their way.

{271} By this time By-ends and his companions were come again
within sight, and they, at the first beck, went over to Demas.  Now,
whether they fell into the pit by looking over the brink thereof,
or whether they went down to dig, or whether they were smothered in
the bottom by the damps that commonly arise, of these things I am
not certain; but this I observed, that they never were seen again
in the way.  Then sang Christian--

  By-ends and silver Demas both agree;
  One calls, the other runs, that he may be
  A sharer in his lucre; so these do
  Take up in this world, and no further go.


{272} Now I saw that, just on the other side of this plain,
the pilgrims came to a place where stood an old monument, hard by
the highway side, at the sight of which they were both concerned,
because of the strangeness of the form thereof; for it seemed
to them as if it had been a woman transformed into the shape of a
pillar; here, therefore they stood looking, and looking upon it,
but could not for a time tell what they should make thereof.  At
last Hopeful espied written above the head thereof, a writing in
an unusual hand; but he being no scholar, called to Christian (for
he was learned) to see if he could pick out the meaning; so he came,
and after a little laying of letters together, he found the same
to be this, "Remember Lot's Wife".  So he read it to his fellow;
after which they both concluded that that was the pillar of salt into
which Lot's wife was turned, for her looking back with a covetous
heart, when she was going from Sodom for safety.  [Gen. 19:26]
Which sudden and amazing sight gave them occasion of this discourse.

{273} CHR. Ah, my brother!  this is a seasonable sight; it came
opportunely to us after the invitation which Demas gave us to come
over to view the Hill Lucre; and had we gone over, as he desired
us, and as thou wast inclining to do, my brother, we had, for aught
I know, been made ourselves like this woman, a spectacle for those
that shall come after to behold.

HOPE. I am sorry that I was so foolish, and am made to wonder that
I am not now as Lot's wife; for wherein was the difference betwixt
her sin and mine?  She only looked back; and I had a desire to go
see.  Let grace be adored, and let me be ashamed that ever such a
thing should be in mine heart.

{274} CHR. Let us take notice of what we see here, for our help
for time to come.  This woman escaped one judgment, for she fell
not by the destruction of Sodom; yet she was destroyed by another,
as we see she is turned into a pillar of salt.

HOPE. True; and she may be to us both caution and example; caution,
that we should shun her sin; or a sign of what judgment will overtake
such as shall not be prevented by this caution; so Korah, Dathan,
and Abiram, with the two hundred and fifty men that perished in
their sin, did also become a sign or example to others to beware.
[Num. 26:9,10] But above all, I muse at one thing, to wit, how
Demas and his fellows can stand so confidently yonder to look for
that treasure, which this woman, but for looking behind her after,
(for we read not that she stepped one foot out of the way) was
turned into a pillar of salt; especially since the judgment which
overtook her did make her an example, within sight of where they
are; for they cannot choose but see her, did they but lift up their
eyesUpon the death of James, Herbert's Court hopes died also, and he
betook himself to a retreat from London.

In this retirement, "he had many conflicts with himself, whether
he should return to the painted pleasures of court life or betake
himself to the study of divinity, and enter into sacred orders."
He chose the latter. He married well. In 1630 he was inducted into
the parsonage of Bemerton, a mile from Salisbury; the third day after
which, he said to his wife, "You are now a minister's wife, and must
now so far forget your father's house, as not to claim a precedence
of any one of your parishioners; for you are to know that a
priest's wife can challenge no precedence or place, but that which
she purchases by her obliging humility; and I am sure, places so
purchased do best become them. And let me tell you, that I am
so good a herald, as to assure you that this is truth." These
rules his meek wife observed with cheerful willingness. Herbert
now set about his "Priest to the Temple: or the Country Parson, his
character, and rule of Holy Life."

Unlike many doctrinists, he practised his own rules: he was a
self-example of his own precepts, and his book was the rule of his own
life; or, as Walton more beautifully explains it "his behaviour
towards God and man may be said to be a practical comment on the
holy rules set down in that useful book."

Thus, he sets forth the Diversities of a Pastor's life: the Parson's
life, knowledge, praying, preaching, Sundays, house, courtesy,
charity, church, comfort, eye, mirth, &c.; his prayers before
and after Sermon, with a few poetical pieces of quaint but
touching sweetness. His poetry has been censured for its point and
antithesis; but he cultivated the poetical art to convey moral and
devotional sentiments; others excel him in smoothness of
versification, but not in benevolent purpose. Herbert though himself
a pattern of humility, was younger brother of the celebrated Lord
Herbert of Cherbury, whom Horace Walpole abuses for his beauty and
gallant bearing, tinctured it must be allowed, with affected notions
of high birth. But the gay philosopher of Cherbury lived in the
last days of chivalry, and had their light but gleamed upon Walpole,
he would, in all probability, have borne the very qualities which
he so loudly censures in Herbert. The pastor Herbert's wife was
nearly related to Lord Danby, so that the caution which we
have quoted was perhaps requisite. As Herbert sank his own high
birth, it was but fit that his wife should forget hers also.

  
  * * * * *
  
  THE NEW BATH GUIDE.
  
  

What a change from grave to gay--from the moral antitheses of
Herbert's _Country Parson_ to the fun and folly of Anstey's New
Bath Guide, with etchings by George Cruikshank, and cuts admirably
designed and engraved by S.

Williams--as Mr. Simkin dressing for the ball:

But what with my Nivernois hat can compare, Bag-wig and laced ruffles,
and black solitaire, And what can a man of true fashion denote,
Like an ell of good riband tyed under the throat.

and "We three blunder-heads," two frizzled physicians of the last
century, and the invariably accompanying cane, or Esculapian wand.
This edition is by Mr. Britton, who has prefixed a dedication
and an essay on the genius of Anstey, both of which sparkle with
humour and lively anecdote; and an amusing sketch of Bath as
it is. Among the anecdotical notes to the Poem it is stated that
Dodsley acknowledged about ten years after he had purchased the
"Bath Guide," that the profits from its sale were greater than on
any other book he had published.

He generously gave up the copyright to the author in 1777, who had
200_l_. for the copyright after the second edition.

Yet Dodsley, with all his liberality lived to be rich, though he
originally was footman to the Hon. Mrs. Lowther; so true is it
that genius and perseverance will find their way upwards from any
station.

There is a pleasant anecdote of the late John Palmer, who, it will
be remembered, was somewhat stiltish. "Palmer, whose father was a
bill-sticker, and who had occasionally practised in the same humble
occupation himself, strutting one evening in the green-room at
Drury-Lane Theatre, in a pair of glittering buckles, a gentleman
present remarked that they greatly resembled diamonds.

'Sir,' said Palmer, with warmth, 'I would have you to know, that I
never wear anything but diamonds.' 'Jack, your pardon,' replied
the gentleman, 'I remember the time when you wore nothing but
_paste!_' This produced a loud laugh, which was heightened by Parsons
jogging him on the elbow, and drily saying, 'Jack, why don't you
_stick him against the wall?

_'"
Another. Mr. Quin, upon his first going to Bath, found he was charged
most exorbitantly for every thing; and, at the end of a week,
complained to Nash, who had invited him thither, as the cheapest
place in England for a man of taste and a _bon vivant_. The master of
the ceremonies, who knew that Quin relished a pun, replied, "They
have acted by you on truly Christian principles."

"How so?" says Quin. "Why," answered Nash, "you were a _stranger_,
and they _took you in_."

"Ay" rejoined Quin; "but they have fleeced me, instead of clothed
me."

* * * * *

THE OUTLINE OF ENGLISH HISTORY,
Is a well-executed compendium for schools, and will be amusing by
any fire-side.

It not merely contains the great names, but abounds with curious
notes on domestic life in each reign, with facts and calculations
which must have cost the editor, Mr.

Ince, many days labour. The period pompously termed "the Georgian
Aera" is not so copious us the editor wishes, but a little more
forethought on his part or that of the printer would better satisfy
himself and the public

.

* * * * *

SNATCHES

_From Mr. Bulwer's Novel of "Eugene Aram,"_ vol. i.

_Love of Nature_.--It has been observed and there is a world of
homely, ay, of legislative knowledge in the observation, that
wherever you see a flower in a cottage-garden, or a bird at the
window, you may feel sure that the cottagers are better and wiser
than their neighbours.

_Humour_.--Where but in farces is the phraseology of the humorist
always the same?

_Conversation Tactics_.

--A quick, short, abrupt turn, that retrenching all superfluities of
pronoun and conjunction, and marching at once upon the meaning of
the sentence, had in it a military and Spartan significance, which
betrayed how difficult it often is for a man to forget that he had
been a corporal.

_Music of Water_.--You saw hard by the rivulet darkening and stealing
away, till your sight, though not your ear, lost it among the
woodland.

_A fine Fellow_--He had strong principles as well as warm feelings,
and a fine and resolute sense of honour utterly impervious to
attack. It was impossible to be in his company an hour, and not
see that he was a man to be respected. It was equally impossible to
live with him a week, and not see that he was a man to be
beloved.

_Marriage_.--The greatest happiness which the world is capable of
bestowing--the society and love of one in whom we could wish for
no change, and beyond whom we have no desire.

_Fatality_.--What evil cannot corrupt, Fate seldom spares.

  _Widowhood_.--If the blow did not crush,
  at least it changed him.
  
  _Comfort of Children_.

--As his nephew and his motherless daughters grew up, they gave an
object to his seclusion, and a relief to his reflections. He found
a pure and unfailing delight in watching the growth of their young
minds, and guiding their differing dispositions; and, as time at
length enabled them to return his affection, and appreciate his
cares, he became once more sensible that he had a home.

_Intellectual Beauty_.--Her eyes of a deep blue, wore a thoughtful
and serene expression, and her forehead, higher and broader than
it usually is in women, gave promise of a certain nobleness of
intellect, and added dignity, but a feminine dignity, to the
more tender characteristics of her beauty.

_A Village Beauty_.--The sunlight of a happy and innocent heart
sparkled on her face, and gave a beam it gladdened you to behold,
to her quick hazel eye, and a smile that broke out from a thousand
dimples.

_An unformed mind_.--Cheerful to outward seeming, but restless, fond
of change, and subject to the melancholy and pining mood common
to young and ardent minds.

_Dependence_.--What in the world makes a man of just pride appear
so unamiable as the sense of dependence.

_Two modes of sitting in a chair_.--The one short, dry, fragile,
and betraying a love of ease in his unbuttoned vest, and a
certain lolling, see-sawing method of balancing his body upon his
chair; the other, erect and solemn, and as steady on his seat as
if he were nailed to it.

_A Soldier's simile_.--Your shy dog is always a deep one: give me a
man who looks me in the face as he would a cannon.

_A Landlord's Independence_.--The indifference of a man well to do,
and not ambitious of half-pence. "There's my wife by the door,
friend; go, tell her what you want."
* * * * *

THE GATHERER

_The Opera_. From the number of French and German operas announced
for performance at the King's Theatre, it should no longer be called
the _Italian_ Opera, but the _Foreign Opera_.

_Tooth Ache_.--Powdered alum not only relieves this annoyance, but
prevents the decay of the tooth.

_Egypt_.--The French are just at this moment crazy for Egyptian
antiquities. "While Champollion (_on dit_)is about to unrol the
mystic papyri in all their primitive significance, the celebrated
Caillaud has preceded him with the First Numbers of a work on the
Arts and Trades of the Egyptians, Nubians, and Ethiopians; their
customs, civil, and domestic, with the manners and customs of
the modern inhabitants of these countries." --_For. Quart. Rev._

_Anne Boleyn_.--M. Crapelet, the celebrated Parisian printer,
has just written and printed a beautiful little volume entitled
_Anne Boleyn_, which is spoken of as "a careful and pains-taking attempt
to exhibit a character hitherto strangely disfigured by party
writers, in its true light."
_Root of the Devil_.--There is a strange root called the Devil's
Bit Scabious, of which quaint old Gerard observes: "The great part
of the root seemeth to be bitten away: old fantasticke charmers
report that the devil did bite it for envie, because it is an herbe
that hath so many good virtues, and is so beneficial to mankinde."

Sir James Smith as quaintly observes, "the malice of the devil has
unhappily been so successful, that no virtue can now be found in
the remainder of the root or herb."-- _Knowledge for the People._
Part xiv.

_Onions_.--The British onion is of the worst description, those of
Egypt and India being considered great delicacies. Their strong,
disagreeable odour is attributable to the sulphur which they
contain, and which is deposited by their juice, when exposed to heat.

--_Ibid_.

_Spanish Liquorice_ is so called from its being manufactured only
in _Spain_ and Sicily. The root grows naturally in those countries
and in Languedoc, and in such abundance in some parts of Sicily,
that it is considered the greatest scourge to the cultivator.

--_Ibid_. (Our brewers and distillers would not be of this opinion
were liquorice indigenous to this country.)
_Heat in Plants_.--Lamarck tells us of a plant, which during a few
hours of its growth, is "so hot as to seem burning." Its greatest
heat is stated at nearly 45 degrees above the temperature of
the air in which the plant was growing.

_Iceland_ is perhaps the most deplorable spot on the world's map.
"Not very long ago it counted at least 100,000 inhabitants. Depopulated
by time, which has more than once introduced frightful pestilence,
there are now not half that number. Their occupation is that of
shepherds and fishermen, for the bitterness of the climate makes all
agricultural labours vain or unproductive. They are scattered
over the wide wastes of the country, far distant, in huts and
farms, and it was only in 1787 that any portion of the population
was gathered into towns, if towns may be called the two spots where
a few families have their abode together."

--_For. Quart. Rev._
_Tobacco and Snuff_.--Tobacco is a narcotic and depressing poison,
whose effect on the nerves and stomach is to destroy the appetite,
prevent the perfect digestion of the food, create an unnatural
thirst, and render the individual who uses it nervous and otherwise
infirm. Snuff destroys the sense of smell, and causes a very disagreeable
alteration in the voice. It also produces head-ache in the course
of time; and by the distillation of its juice which falls from the
posterior nostrils into the stomach during sleep, gives rise to
weak and painful digestion.

--_Dr. Granville_.

_Early Rising_.--From March to November, at least, no cause, save
sickness, or one of equal weight, should retain us in bed a moment
after the sun has risen.--_Dr. Granville_. (What say the lazy
Londoners to this? In Paris, shops are opened and set out for the
day before six o'clock in the mornings of spring, summer, and great
part of autumn.)
_Food_.--Many articles of consumption, introduced in the reign of
Henry VIII, the following distich embraces a few:--
Turkey, carp, hops, pricard, and beer.
Came into England all in one year. (1525.)
_Ince's Outline of English History._ 
* * * * *
_Printed and Published by J. LIMBIRD, 143, Strand, (near Somerset
House,) London; sold by ERNEST FLEISCHER, 626, New Market, Leipsic;
G.G. BENNIS, 55, Rue Neuve, St. Augustin, Paris; and by all Newsmen
and Booksellers._ 
* * * * *These, said he, were pilgrims as you are, once,
and they trespassed in my grounds, as you have done; and when I
thought fit, I tore them in pieces, and so, within ten days, I will
do you.  Go, get you down to your den again; and with that he beat
them all the way thither.  They lay, therefore, all day on Saturday
in a lamentable case, as before.  Now, when night was come, and
when Mrs. Diffidence and her husband, the Giant, were got to bed,
they began to renew their discourse of their prisoners; and withal
the old Giant wondered, that he could neither by his blows nor
his counsel bring them to an end.  And with that his wife replied,
I fear, said she, that they live in hope that some will come to
relieve them, or that they have picklocks about them, by the means
of which they hope to escape.  And sayest thou so, my dear?  said
the Giant; I will, therefore, search them in the morning.

{292} Well, on Saturday, about midnight, they began to pray, and
continued in prayer till almost break of day.

Now a little before it was day, good Christian, as one half amazed,
brake out in passionate speech:  What a fool, quoth he, am I, thus
to lie in a stinking Dungeon, when I may as well walk at liberty.
I have a Key in my bosom called Promise, that will, I am persuaded,
open any Lock in Doubting Castle.  Then said Hopeful, That's good
news; good Brother pluck it out of thy bosom and try.

A key in Christian's bosom, called Promise, opens any lock in
Doubting Castle

Then Christian pulled it out of his bosom, and began to try at the
Dungeon door, whose bolt (as he turned the Key) gave back, and the
door flew open with ease, and Christian and Hopeful both came out.
Then he went to the outward door that leads into the Castle-yard,
and with his Key opened that door also.  After he went to the iron
Gate, for that must be opened too, but that Lock went damnable
hard, yet the Key did open it.  Then they thrust open the Gate to
make their escape with speed; but that Gate as it opened made such
a creaking, that it waked Giant Despair, who hastily rising to
pursue his Prisoners, felt his limbs to fail, for his Fits took
him again, so that he could by no means go after them.  Then they
went on, and came to the King's High-way again, and so were safe,
because they were out of his jurisdiction

{294} Now, when they were over the stile, they began to contrive
with themselves what they should do at that stile to prevent those
that should come after from falling into the hands of Giant Despair.
So they consented to erect there a pillar, and to engrave upon the
side thereof this sentence--"Over this stile is the way to Doubting
Castle, which is kept by Giant Despair, who despiseth the King of
the Celestial Country, and seeks to destroy his holy pilgrims."
Many, therefore, that followed after read what was written, and
escaped the danger.  This done, they sang as follows:--

  Out of the way we went, and then we found
  What 'twas to tread upon forbidden ground;
  And let them that come after have a care,
  Lest heedlessness makes them, as we, to fare.
  Lest they for trespassing his prisoners are,
  Whose castle's Doubting, and whose name's Despair.


{295} They went then till they came to the Delectable Mountains,
which mountains belong to the Lord of that hill of which we have
spoken before; so they went up to the mountains, to behold the
gardens and orchards, the vineyards and fountains of water; where
also they drank and washed themselves, and did freely eat of the
vineyards.  The children of Egypt always obey their parents, and are
never rude to them. I think they have very good manners.

7. All the people of Egypt love singing. Their voices are soft and
sweet. The boatmen on the Nile sing as they row. The fruit-sellers
sing as they cry their wares in the streets.

8.

  Many of the boys in the chief city of
  Egypt are donkey drivers. In Egypt donkeys
  are far more used for riding than horses. The
  donkeys are beautiful little animals, and they trot along very
quickly.

[Illustration: {A boy with two donkeys}]
9. Each donkey has a boy to run after it with a stick, and to shout
at it to make it go.

The donkey boys are very jolly little fellows.

They always smile, however far they have to run.

10.

Most donkey boys wear a white or blue gown, and have a red cap, or
fez, on the head.

If a donkey boy sees an Englishman coming, he runs to him and says,
"My donkey is called John Bull."

If he sees an American coming, he says that his donkey's name is
Yankee Doodle.

11.

Sometimes the donkey boy will ask the rider,--
"Very good donkey?"

If the rider says "Yes," he will then ask,--
"Very good donkey boy?"

"Yes."
12. "Very good saddle too?"
"Yes."

"_Then me have very good present!_"
13. Now let me tell you something that will surprise you. The people
of Egypt in the old, old days thought that their cats were
gods.

14. They prayed to them and built temples to them. When the family cat
died, all the people in the house shaved their eyebrows to show
how sorry they were.--Best love to you all. FATHER.

* * * * *
7. THROUGH THE CANAL.

1. MY DEAR CHILDREN,--I have just sailed through a very wonderful
canal.
It joins two great seas together, and is now part of the way to
India.

2.

By means of this canal we can sail from England to India in three weeks.
Before it was made the voyage took three months or more.

3. The canal was made more than forty years ago by a Frenchman.
He dug a great ditch, and joined together a number of lakes. By doing
so he made a waterway from sea to sea. This waterway is about a
hundred miles long.

4. I joined my ship at the town which stands at the north end of
the canal. There is nothing to see in the town except the
lighthouse and the shops. On the sea wall there is a statue of
the Frenchman who made the canal.

5. As we lay off the town we could see many little boats darting
to and fro. The boatmen were dressed in all the colours of the
rainbow--red, blue, green, and orange. In one boat there were men and
women playing and singing songs.

6. By the side of our ship men were swimming in the water. I threw a
piece of silver into the water. One of the men dived, and caught it
before it reached the bottom.

[Illustration: {Side of a ship, with men swimming below}]
7. On the other side of the ship there were great barges full of
coal.

Hundreds of men and women carried this coal to the ship in little
baskets upon their heads. They walked up and down a plank, and all
the time they made an awful noise which they called singing.
8. When all the coal was on board, the ship began to steam slowly
along the narrow canal. No ship is allowed to sail more than four
miles an hour, lest the "wash" should break down the banks.
9. Soon we passed out of the narrow canal into one of the lakes.
Our road was marked by buoys. Away to right and to left of us
stretched the sandy desert.
10. In the afternoon we passed a station, where I saw a number of
camels laden with boxes of goods. They were going to travel across
the sands for many days.
11. The sun went down in a sky of purple and gold. Then a large
electric light shone forth from our bows. It threw a broad band of
white light on the water and on the banks of the canal. Where the
light touched the sands it seemed to turn them into silver.
12. In less than twenty-four hours we reached the town at the south
end of the canal. A boat came out from the shore, and this letter
is going back with it.--Love to you all.They answered, Yes.  Then said the Shepherds, From
that stile there goes a path that leads directly to Doubting Castle,
which is kept by Giant Despair, and these, pointing to them among
the tombs, came once on pilgrimage, as you do now, even till they
came to that same stile; and because the right way was rough in
that place, they chose to go out of it into that meadow, and there
were taken by Giant Despair, and cast into Doubting Castle; where,
after they had been a while kept in the dungeon, he at last did put
out their eyes, and led them among those tombs, where he has left
them to wander to this very day, that the saying of the wise man might
be fulfilled, "He that wandereth out of the way of understanding,
shall remain in the congregation of the dead."  [Pro. 21:16] Then
Christian and Hopeful looked upon one another, with tears gushing
out, but yet said nothing to the Shepherds.

{302} Then I saw in my dream, that the Shepherds had them to another
place, in a bottom, where was a door in the side of a hill, and they
opened the door, and bid them look in.  They looked in, therefore,
and saw that within it was very dark and smoky; they also thought
that they heard there a rumbling noise as of fire, and a cry of
some tormented, and that they smelt the scent of brimstone.  Then
said Christian, What means this?  The Shepherds told them, This is
a by-way to hell, a way that hypocrites go in at; namely, such as
sell their birthright, with Esau; such as sell their master, with
Judas; such as blaspheme the gospel, with Alexander; and that
lie and dissemble, with Ananias and Sapphira his wife.  Then said
Hopeful to the Shepherds, I perceive that these had on them, even
every one, a show of pilgrimage, as we have now; had they not?

{303} SHEP. Yes, and held it a long time too.

HOPE. How far might they go on in pilgrimage in their day, since
they notwithstanding were thus miserably cast away?

SHEP. Some further, and some not so far, as these mountains.

Then said the Pilgrims one to another, We have need to cry to the
Strong for strength.

SHEP. Ay, and you will have need to use it, when you have it, too.

{304} By this time the Pilgrims had a desire to go forward, and
the Shepherds a desire they should; so they walked together towards
the end of the mountains.  Then said the Shepherds one to another,
Let us here show to the Pilgrims the gates of the Celestial City,
if they have skill to look through our perspective glass.  The
Pilgrims then lovingly accepted the motion; so they had them to
the top of a high hill, called Clear, and gave them their glass to
look.

{305} Then they essayed to look, but the remembrance of that last
thing that the Shepherds had shown them, made their hands shake;
by means of which impediment, they could not look steadily through
the glass; yet they thought they saw something like the gate, and
also some of the glory of the place.  Then they went away, and sang
this song--

  Thus, by the Shepherds, secrets are reveal'd,
  Which from all other men are kept conceal'd.
  Come to the Shepherds, then, if you would see
  Things deep, things hid, and that mysterious be.


{306} When they were about to depart, one of the Shepherds gave
them a note of the way.  Another of them bid them beware of the
Flatterer.  The third bid them take heed that they sleep not upon
the Enchanted Ground.  And the fourth bid them God-speed.  So I
awoke from my dream.

{307} And I slept, and dreamed again, and saw the same two Pilgrims
going down the mountains along the highway towards the city.  Now,
a little below these mountains, on the left hand, lieth the country
of Conceit; from which country there comes into the way in which
the Pilgrims walked, a little crooked lane.  Here, therefore, they
met with a very brisk lad, that came out of that country; and his
name was Ignorance.  So Christian asked him from what parts he
came, and whither he was going.

{308} IGNOR. Sir, I was born in the country that lieth off there
a little on the left hand, and I am going to the Celestial City.

CHR. But how do you think to get in at the gate?  for you may find
some difficulty there.

IGNOR. As other people do, said he.

CHR. But what have you to show at that gate, that may cause that
the gate should be opened to you?

IGNOR. I know my Lord's will, and I have been a good liver; I pay
every man his own; I pray, fast, pay tithes, and give alms, and
have left my country for whither I am going.

{309} CHR. But thou camest not in at the wicket-gate that is at the
head of this way; thou camest in hither through that same crooked
lane, and therefore, I fear, however thou mayest think of thyself,
when the reckoning day shall come, thou wilt have laid to thy charge
that thou art a thief and a robber, instead of getting admittance
into the city.

IGNOR. Gentlemen, ye be utter strangers to me, I know you not; be
content and follow the religion of your country, and I will follow
the religion of mine.  I hope all will be well.  And as for the
gate that you talk of, all the world knows that that is a great way
off of our country.  I cannot think that any man in all our parts
doth so much as know the way to it, nor need they matter whether
they do or no, since we have, as you see, a fine, pleasant green
lane, that comes down from our country, the next way into the way.

{310} When Christian saw that the man was "wise in his own conceit",
he said to Hopeful, whisperingly, "There is more hope of a fool
than of him."  [Prov. 26:12] And said, moreover, "When he that is
a fool walketh by the way, his wisdom faileth him, and he saith to
every one that he is a fool."  [Eccl. 10:3] What, shall we talk
further with him, or out-go him at present, and so leave him to
think of what he hath heard already, and then stop again for him
afterwards, and see if by degrees we can do any good to him?  Then
said Hopeful--

  Let Ignorance a little while now muse
  On what is said, and let him not refuse
  Good counsel to embrace, lest he remain
  Still ignorant of what's the chiefest gain.
  God saith, those that no understanding have,
  Although he made them, them he will not save.


HOPE. He further added, It is not good, I think, to say all to him
at once; let us pass him by, if you will, and talk to him anon,
even as he is able to bear it.

{311} So they both went on, and Ignorance he came after.  Now when
they had passed him a little way, they entered into a very dark
lane, where they met a man whom seven devils had bound with seven
strong cords, and were carrying of him back to the door that they
saw on the side of the hill.  [Matt. 12:45, Prov. 5:22] Now good
Christian began to tremble, and so did Hopeful his companion; yet
as the devils led away the man, Christian looked to see if he knew
him; and he thought it might be one Turn-away, that dwelt in the
town of Apostasy.  But he did not perfectly see his face, for he
did hang his head like a thief that is found.  But being once past,
Hopeful looked after him, and espied on his back a paper with this
inscription, "Wanton professor and damnable apostate".

Then said Christian to his fellow, Now I call to remembrance, that
which was told me of a thing that happened to a good man hereabout.
The name of the man was Little-faith, but a good man, and he dwelt
in the town of Sincere.  The thing was this:--At the entering
in at this passage, there comes down from Broad-way Gate, a lane
called Dead Man's Lane; so called because of the murders that are
commonly done there; and this Little-faith going on pilgrimage,
as we do now, chanced to sit down there, and slept.  Now there
happened, at that time, to come down the lane, from Broad-way Gate,
three sturdy rogues, and their names were Faint-heart, Mistrust,
and Guilt, (three brothers), and they espying Little-faith, where
he was, came galloping up with speed.  Now the good man was just
awake from his sleep, and was getting up to go on his journey.
So they came up all to him, and with threatening language bid him
stand.  At this Little-faith looked as white as a clout, and had
neither power to fight nor fly.  Then said Faint-heart, Deliver thy
purse.  But he making no haste to do it (for he was loath to lose
his money), Mistrust ran up to him, and thrusting his hand into
his pocket, pulled out thence a bag of silver.  Then he cried out,
Thieves!  Thieves!  With that Guilt, with a great club that was
in his hand, struck Little-faith on the head, and with that blow
felled him flat to the ground, where he lay bleeding as one that
would bleed to death.  All this while the thieves stood by.  But,
at last, they hearing that some were upon the road, and fearing
lest it should be one Great-grace, that dwells in the city of
Good-confidence, they betook themselves to their heels, and left
this good man to shift for himself.  Now, after a while, Little-faith
came to himself, and getting up, made shift to scrabble on his way.
This was the story.

{312} HOPE. But did they take from him all that ever he had?

Chr.  No; the place where his jewels were they never ransacked, so
those he kept still.  But, as I was told, the good man was much afflicted
for his loss, for the thieves got most of his spending-money.  That
which they got not (as I said) were jewels, also he had a little
odd money left, but scarce enough to bring him to his journey's
end [1 Peter 4:18]; nay, if I was not misinformed, he was forced
to beg as he went, to keep himself alive; for his jewels he might
not sell.  But beg, and do what he could, he went (as we say) with
many a hungry belly the most part of the rest of the way.

{313} HOPE. But is it not a wonder they got not from him his certificate,
by which he was to receive his admittance at the Celestial Gate?

CHR. It is a wonder; but they got not that, though they missed it
not through any good cunning of his; for he, being dismayed with
their coming upon him, had neither power nor skill to hide anything;
so it was more by good Providence than by his endeavour, that they
missed of that good thing.

{314} HOPE. But it must needs be a comfort to him, that they got
not his jewels from him.

CHR. It might have been great comfort to him, had he used it as
he should; but they that told me the story said, that he made but
little use of it all the rest of the way, and that because of the
dismay that he had in the taking away his money; indeed, he forgot
it a great part of the rest of his journey; and besides, when at any
time it came into his mind, and he began to be comforted therewith,
then would fresh thoughts of his loss come again upon him, and
those thoughts would swallow up all.  [1 Peter 1:9]

{315} HOPE. Alas!  poor man!  This could not but be a great grief
to him.

CHR. Grief!  ay, a grief indeed.  Would it not have been so to any
of us, had we been used as he, to be robbed, and wounded too, and
that in a strange place, as he was?  It is a wonder he did not die
with grief, poor heart!  I was told that he scattered almost all
the rest of the way with nothing but doleful and bitter complaints;
telling also to all that overtook him, or that he overtook in the
way as he went, where he was robbed, and how; who they were that
did it, and what he lost; how he was wounded, and that he hardly
escaped with his life.

{316} HOPE. But it is a wonder that his necessity did not put him
upon selling or pawning some of his jewels, that he might have
wherewith to relieve himself in his journey.

CHR. Thou talkest like one upon whose head is the shell to this
very day; for what should he pawn them, or to whom should he sell
them?  In all that country where he was robbed, his jewels were not
accounted of; nor did he want that relief which could from thence
be administered to him.  Besides, had his jewels been missing at the
gate of the Celestial City, he had (and that he knew well enough)
been excluded from an inheritance there; and that would have been
worse to him than the appearance and villainy of ten thousand
thieves.

{317} HOPE. Why art thou so tart, my brother?  Esau sold his
birthright, and that for a mess of pottage, and that birthright
was his greatest jewel; and if he, why might not Little-faith do
so too?  [Heb. 12:16]

CHR. Esau did sell his birthright indeed, and so do many besides,
and by so doing exclude themselves from the chief blessing, as
also that caitiff did; but you must put a difference betwixt Esau
and Little-faith, and also betwixt their estates.  Esau's birthright
was typical, but Little-faith's jewels were not so; Esau's belly
was his god, but Little-faith's belly was not so; Esau's want lay
in his fleshly appetite, Little-faith's did not so.  Besides, Esau
could see no further than to the fulfilling of his lusts; "Behold,
I am at the point to die, (said he), and what profit shall this
birthright do me?"  [Gen. 25:32] But Little-faith, though it was
his lot to have but a little faith, was by his little faith kept
from such extravagances, and made to see and prize his jewels
more than to sell them, as Esau did his birthright.  You read not
anywhere that Esau had faith, no, not so much as a little; therefore,
no marvel if, where the flesh only bears sway, (as it will in that
man where no faith is to resist), if he sells his birthright, and
his soul and all, and that to the devil of hell; for it is with
such, as it is with the ass, who in her occasions cannot be turned
away.  [Jer. 2:24] When their minds are set upon their lusts,
they will have them whatever they cost.  But Little-faith was of
another temper, his mind was on things divine; his livelihood was
upon things that were spiritual, and from above; therefore, to what
end should he that is of such a temper sell his jewels (had there
been any that would have bought them) to fill his mind with empty
things?  Will a man give a penny to fill his belly with hay; or can
you persuade the turtle-dove to live upon carrion like the crow?
Though faithless ones can, for carnal lusts, pawn, or mortgage,
or sell what they have, and themselves outright to boot; yet they
that have faith, saving faith, though but a little of it, cannot
do so.  Here, therefore, my brother, is thy mistake.

{318} HOPE. I acknowledge it; but yet your severe reflection had
almost made me angry.

CHR. Why, I did but compare thee to some of the birds that are of
the brisker sort, who will run to and fro in untrodden paths, with
the shell upon their heads; but pass by that, and consider the
matter under debate, and all shall be well betwixt thee and me.

HOPE. But, Christian, these three fellows, I am persuaded in
my heart, are but a company of cowards; would they have run else,
think you, as they did, at the noise of one that was coming on
the road?  Why did not Little-faith pluck up a greater heart?  He
might, methinks, have stood one brush with them, and have yielded
when there had been no remedy.

CHR. That they are cowards, many have said, but few have found it
so in the time of trial.  As for a great heart, Little-faith had
none; and I perceive by thee, my brother, hadst thou been the man
concerned, thou art but for a brush, and then to yield.

And, verily, since this is the height of thy stomach, now they are
at a distance from us, should they appear to thee as they did to
him they might put thee to second thoughts.

{319} But, consider again, they are but journeymen thieves, they
serve under the king of the bottomless pit, who, if need be, will
come into their aid himself, and his voice is as the roaring of a
lion.  [1 Pet. 5:8] I myself have been engaged as this Little-faith
was, and I found it a terrible thing.  These three villains set
upon me, and I beginning, like a Christian, to resist, they gave
but a call, and in came their master.  I would, as the saying is,
have given my life for a penny, but that, as God would have it,
I was clothed with armour of proof.  Ay, and yet, though I was so
harnessed, I found it hard work to quit myself like a man.  No man
can tell what in that combat attends us, but he that hath been in
the battle himself.

{320} HOPE. Well, but they ran, you see, when they did but suppose
that one Great-grace was in the way.

CHR. True, they have often fled, both they and their master, when
Great-grace hath but appeared; and no marvel; for he is the King's
champion.  But, I trow, you will put some difference betwixt
Little-faith and the King's champion.  All the King's subjects
are not his champions, nor can they, when tried, do such feats of
war as he.  Is it meet to think that a little child should handle
Goliath as David did?  Or that there should be the strength of
an ox in a wren?  Some are strong, some are weak; some have great
faith, some have little.  This man was one of the weak, and therefore
he went to the wall.

{321} HOPE. I would it had been Great-grace for their sakes.

CHR. If it had been, he might have had his hands full; for I must
tell you, that though Great-grace is excellent good at his weapons,
and has, and can, so long as he keeps them at sword's point, do well
enough with them; yet, if they get within him, even Faint-heart,
Mistrust, or the other, it shall go hard but they will throw up
his heels.  And when a man is down, you know, what can he do?

{322} Whoso looks well upon Great-grace's face, shall see those
scars and cuts there, that shall easily give demonstration of what
I say.  Yea, once I heard that he should say, (and that when he was
in the combat), "We despaired even of life."  How did these sturdy
rogues and their fellows make David groan, mourn, and roar?  Yea,
Heman, and Hezekiah, too, though champions in their day, were forced
to bestir them, when by these assaulted; and yet, notwithstanding,
they had their coats soundly brushed by them.  Peter, upon a time,
would go try what he could do; but though some do say of him that
he is the prince of the apostles, they handled him so, that they
made him at last afraid of a sorry girl.

{323} Leviathan's sturdiness

Besides, their king is at their whistle.  He is never out of hearing;
and if at any time they be put to the worst, he, if possible, comes in
to help them; and of him it is said, The sword of him that layeth
at him cannot hold the spear, the dart, nor the habergeon; he
esteemeth iron as straw, and brass as rotten wood.  The arrow cannot
make him flee; sling stones are turned with him into stubble.  Darts
are counted as stubble:  he laugheth at the shaking of a spear.
[Job 41:26-29] What can a man do in this case?  It is true, if a man
could, at every turn, have Job's horse, and had skill and courage
to ride him, he might do notable things; for his neck is clothed
with thunder, he will not be afraid of the grasshopper; the glory
of his nostrils is terrible:  he paweth in the valley, and rejoiceth
in his strength, he goeth on to meet the armed men.  He mocketh
at fear, and is not affrighted, neither turneth he back from the
sword.  The quiver rattleth against him, the glittering spear, and
the shield.  He swalloweth the ground with fierceness and rage,
neither believeth he that it is the sound of the trumpet. He saith
among the trumpets, Ha, ha!  and he smelleth the battle afar off,
the thunder of the captains, and the shouting.  [Job 39:19-25]

{324} But for such footmen as thee and I are, let us never desire
to meet with an enemy, nor vaunt as if we could do better, when we
hear of others that they have been foiled, Nor be tickled at the
thoughts of our own manhood; for such commonly come by the worst
when tried.  Then a fierce war broke out.
The North beat the South, and when the war came to an end all the
slaves in America were set free.

13. The blacks still work in the cotton and sugar and tobacco fields;
but they now work for wages, just as I do.

They are free to come and go as they please.

[Illustration: {Five black children}]
14. The darkies are very merry and full of fun. When their work
is over they love to sing and dance to the music of the banjo. Some
of their songs are very pretty. I will sing some of them to you
when I come home.

Good-bye, dears. I shall soon be with you now.--Your loving
FATHER.

* * * * *
29. HOME AGAIN.

1. The telegram came soon after breakfast.

Father was coming home that very day. We were so delighted that we
sang and danced and clapped our hands, just like the darkies.

2. Mother was very busy. "You must all come and help me," she said.
"The house must be made beautiful for father's return."
3. May and I worked with mother, but the day passed very
slowly.

  Father's train was to arrive at six o'clock. By
  half-past five we were all at the station
  waiting for him.
  

4. At last the train steamed in, and out jumped father. Oh, how we
hugged and kissed him! Father was well, and he looked very brown.

5. I sat next to him in the cab. He told us that his ship had
only reached Liverpool that morning. He had taken the first train
for home, because he wished to see us so much.

[Illustration: {Father in cab with one of his daughters}]
6. After tea he opened one of his boxes. "I have brought each of
you a present," he said. "Sit down, and I will show you some
pretty things."
7. Mother's present was a dress from India. It had gold and beetles'
wings on it. They were a lovely shiny green, just like jewels.

8. My present was a necklace of beautiful blue stones. May's was
a dolly, dressed just like an Indian lady. Tom's was a kite from
Japan. It was shaped just like a dragon. Of course, we were all
delighted with our gifts.

9. Then father told us many things about his travels. "I have been
right round the world," he said. "I sailed to the East, and I went
on and on until I returned to the place from which I set out."
[Illustration: {Father at home with his family}]
"I know," cried Tom.

"I have followed you all round the world on the globe."
10. May was sitting on father's knee. "Dad," she said, "I suppose
you are the very first man who has ever been right round the world."
"Of course he is," said Tom.

11. Father laughed. "No, my dear," he replied; "thousands of men
had been round the world before I was born."
12. "I'm so sorry," said May. "I did so want to tell the girls
at school that my father was the very first man who ever went
round the world."

EXERCISES.

(_To be worked under the direction of the teacher_)
* * * * *
Lesson 1.

1. The father travelled by train. In what other ways might he have
travelled? Which is the fastest way? Which is the slowest?

2. What power drives the train? What other work does this power do?

3. Look carefully at the first picture in this book. Describe
it.

4. Learn: _A globe is a small model of the earth._ Of what shape
is the earth?

Of what shape are the sun, moon, and stars?

Lesson 2.

1. The name of the town on the seashore (par. 2) is Dover. Turn to
the picture on page 11 {Illustration entitled "The White Cliffs
of Dover"} and describe the cliffs of Dover as seen from the
sea.

2.

  The distance between Dover and Calais is
  only twenty-one miles.
  Learn: _A narrow passage of water joining
  two seas is called a strait._ The word _strait_
  means "narrow." This strait is called the
  Strait of Dover.

3. Model the Strait of Dover in clay or plasticine. Suppose the
water between England and France were to dry up, what would the
strait be then?

Write out and learn: _A valley is a hollow between hills or mountains._

Lesson 3.

1. The river which runs through Paris is called the Seine.

The river which runs through London is called the Thames.

Learn: _A river is a large stream of fresh water flowing across
the land to join another river, a lake, or the sea._
2.

Look carefully at the picture on page 14 {Illustration entitled "In
the Gardens"} and describe it.

3.

Compare French boys with English boys. Compare French girls with
English girls.

Lesson 4.

1. Look carefully at the picture on page 18 {Illustration entitled
"The Grape Harvest"} and describe it.

[Illustration: {Silkworm on mulberry leaf}]
2.

Copy this little drawing of the silkworm and the mulberry leaf.

3. Why do flowers bloom earlier in the south of France than in
England?

4.

Describe the picture on page 20 {Illustration entitled "Games on
Board Father's Ship"}.

Lesson 5.

1. The Nile carries much mud in its waters. If there is a stream
near your school, go to it and get a bottleful of water. Let
this water stand for a time and notice the mud which settles down.
Where does this mud come from?

[Illustration: {Palm tree}]
2. Copy this little drawing of a palm tree.

The Arabs say that the palm tree loves to have its foot in the water
and its head in the fire. What do you think this saying means?

3. Look at the picture on page 23 {Illustration entitled "The Nile
in Flood"}. What animals do you see in the picture? Tell me
something about each of them.

Lesson 6.

[Illustration: {Two pyramids}]
1. Copy this little drawing of two of the oldest buildings in
Egypt.
Such buildings are called _pyramids_.

Write out this word six times. You will see pyramids in the picture
on page 23 {Illustration entitled "The Nile in Flood"}.

Of what shape is the ground on which a pyramid stands?
Make a _ground plan_ of a pyramid.

2.

How do we know what the men of Egypt were like in olden times?

3. The picture on page 25 {Illustration entitled "The Chief City of
Egypt"} shows you a street in Cairo, the chief town of Egypt.

Describe the picture.

Lesson 7.

1. Write out and learn: _A long deep ditch filled with water is called
a canal._ Model a canal in clay or plasticine.

What is the difference between a canal and a strait?

[Illustration: {Lighthouse}] 
2.

Copy this little drawing of a lighthouse.

Write out and learn: _A lighthouse is a tower near the sea.

  It shows a bright light at night to warn sailors
  of rocks or shallow places._
  3. Why does a big ship "go slow" through
  the Suez Canal?
  
  

Lesson 8.

1. Write out and learn: _A desert is a rainless tract of country
on which little or nothing will grow._ How can a desert be turned
into a garden?

[Illustration: {Arab tent}]

2. Copy this little drawing of an Arab tent. Why do the Arabs
who wander from place to place live in tents?

3.

Write out and learn: _A green spot in a desert is called an oasis._
Several of these green spots are called _oases_.

Lesson 9.

1. The palm is said to have as many uses as there are days in the
year.
Name some of these uses.

2. Why is the camel called the "ship of the desert"?

3. Go to a sand heap. Stand on it; you sink in. Put a piece of board
on the sand and stand on it; the board does not sink in much.

Now turn to the picture on page 105 {Illustration entitled "Boys
of Canada in Winter"}.

You will see a pair of snow-shoes on the snow. A boy's foot
will sink into the snow. When he stands on the snow-shoes he does
not sink in. Find out why. Notice the camel's foot, and tell me why
it does not sink into the sand.

Lesson 10.

1. In what ways do the people of Bombay differ from the people of
your town or village?

2. Why are the people of hot lands dark in colour?

3. Look at the picture on page 47 {Illustration entitled "The Village
Well"}.

Describe it.

Lesson 11.

1. What is the difference between our shops and the shops of Bombay?

2. How do Indian boys play at marbles?

[Illustration: {The Union Jack}]

3. Copy this drawing of the Union Jack. Colour it with chalks.

Lesson 12.

1. With a pair of scissors cut out a square of paper. Fold it into
two; then into four; then into eight, and lastly into sixteen.

Open out the paper. If the whole square stands for the size of India,
one of the small squares will stand for the size of our land.

[Illustration: {Punkah}]
2. Copy this drawing of a punkah. What is the use of a punkah?

3.

Suppose you forget to water your plants, what happens? Suppose you
water them too much, what happens?

Lesson 13.

1. Write out and learn: _A mountain is land which rises high above
the level of the country round about it. A row of mountains joined
together by high ground is called a mountain range or chain._ 
2.

Write out the following:--"Some mountains may be called water savings
banks.

The rain freezes as it falls and becomes snow. On very high mountains
this snow never melts. It gets deeper and deeper, and the lower
part turns into ice.

This ice creeps slowly down the mountain side until it comes into
air that is warm enough to melt it.

The water which flows away from the ice forms a river. Many large
rivers begin in melting ice-fields."
3. Describe the picture on page 55 {Illustration of a town on the
Ganges}.

Lesson 14.

[Illustration: {Palanquin}]
1. Make a copy of this little drawing. It shows you a palanquin--that
is, a box carried on poles. Rich ladies are carried from place to
place in India in palanquins of this kind.

2. Compare the life of a rich Indian girl with that of our girls.

3.

"They sang 'God Save the King' for me." Who is their king? Have the
people of India ever seen him?

Lesson 15.

1. Describe the picture on page 61 {Illustration entitled "An
Indian Rajah"}.

2. Describe an elephant. Of what use is he?

3. Tell me what you know of tigers. How are tigers hunted?

Lesson 16.

1. In what way does a Burmese girl differ from an Indian girl?

2.

Copy the drawing of a Burmese girl on page 66 {Illustration of
Burmese woman with an umbrella}.

3.

Write out the following: "The Burmese alphabet is very hard to
learn.
Dull boys often take a year to learn it. In the monks' schools
the lazy boys are sometimes punished by being made to carry the
hard-working boys on their backs up and down the schoolroom."

Lesson 17.

1.

What is the difference between Burmese football and British
football?

2. Describe the picture on page 68 {Illustration of boys playing
Burmese football}.
3. Write out the following: "Rice is a grass on which many seeds
grow.
These seeds are eaten. Rice will only grow in wet ground. The fields
are flooded with water, and then the rice-shoots are planted. The
fields must be kept flooded until the rice is ripe. In India, men
sometimes gather the rice in small boats." 

Lesson 18.
[Illustration: {Rickshaw}]
1. Copy this little drawing of a rickshaw.
2. Write out the following: "Tea is the name given to the dried
leaves and young shoots of the tea-plant. This plant is a large
evergreen shrub. It grows on the hillsides of Ceylon, and in many
other places in the East. When the leaves are picked, they are
spread out in trays until they wither; then they are rolled. Wet
cloths are next placed over the leaves, and they are put in a cool
dark place, until they rot a little.
The leaves are then dried over a fire, and after cooling are packed
in air-tight chests. They are then sent to our country."
3. Describe the picture on page 75 {Illustration entitled "Ceylon
Girls Playing the Tom-Tom"}.

Lesson 19.
1. Old cities have walls round them. Why were these walls built?
Why are they of no use now?
[Illustration: {Chinese wheelbarrow}]
2. Copy this drawing of a Chinese wheelbarrow.
3. Why do the Chinese paint an eye on the bows of their boats?
Lesson 20.
1. Describe the picture on page 78 {Illustration entitled "A Chinese
Street"}.

2. Say what you know about a Chinese school.
3. How can you tell a Chinaman when you see him?

Lesson 21.
1. Describe the picture on page 88 {Illustration entitled "A Rich
Chinaman's House"}.
2. In what ways do Chinese girls differ from British girls?
3. Write out the following: "The Great Wall of China is the longest
wall in the world. It was built about two thousand years ago, and
was meant to shut out the wild tribes which were then trying to
conquer China. The wall is more than twice as long as the island
of Great Britain. It is built of stone and earth, and is so broad
that four horses can be driven on it abreast. The wall is now in
ruins." 

Lesson 22.
1. Write out and learn: _An island is land with water all round
it.
People can only reach an island by sailing to it in a boat or by
crossing a bridge._ A small island is called an _islet_.
2. Model an island in clay or plasticine. Suppose the water round
an island were to dry up, what would the island be then?
[Illustration: {Snow-covered mountain}]
3. Copy this little drawing. It shows you the sacred mountain of
Japan.
4. Write out and learn: _A volcano is a hole in the ground out of
which steam, ashes, mud, and melted rock are thrown. An earthquake
is a shaking or tearing apart of the ground._ 

Lesson 23.
1. Which should you prefer to be--a boy or a girl (1) in Japan, (2)
in India?
2. Describe the picture on page 90 {Illustration entitled "The Toy
Seller"}.
3. Try to make a drawing of a kite just after its string has been
cut by the glass on the string of another kite.

Lesson 24.
1. Write out and learn: _A plain is a wide tract of low-lying and
nearly level country. A high plain is called a plateau._
[Illustration: {Salmon}]
2. Copy this drawing of a salmon. What do you know about salmon?
3. Which should you like to do best--till the fields, cut down
trees, or catch salmon? Say why.

Lesson 25.
1. Describe the picture on page 105 {Illustration entitled "Boys
of Canada in Winter"}. Why do the boys cover up their ears?
2. What sports do these boys enjoy in winter?
[Illustration: {Canoe}] 
3. Copy this drawing of a canoe.
Lesson 26.

[Illustration: {Wigwam}]
1. Copy this little drawing of a wigwam--that is, a Red man's
tent.
2. Describe the picture on page 102 {Illustration entitled "Red Men
and White Men"}.
3. How did the Red men hunt the bison? What has become of the
bison?

Lesson 27.
1. Look carefully at the picture on page 111 {Illustration entitled
"Amongst the Eskimos"}. Compare it with the picture on page 35
{Illustration entitled "Arabs of the Desert"}.
2. Why are the Eskimos fishermen and hunters, and not farmers?
3. How would you build a snow house? Would it be very cold to live
in?
If not, why not?

Lesson 28.
1. Describe the picture on page 102 {Illustration entitled "Red Men
and White Men"}.
2. Write out the following: "The cotton plant loves sun and water,
and will only grow in the hot, moist parts of the world. It throws
out flower stalks, at the end of which pods appear. Inside the pods
is a soft, white down, which is called cotton. This is spun and
woven into cloth."
3. What is the difference between cotton and wool?

Lesson 29.
1. Look at a globe. Find a line running round the globe at the
thickest part. This is called the _Equator_, because it divides the
earth into two _equal_ parts. The hottest parts of the earth lie
round about the Equator. The distance round the earth at the Equator
is 25,000 miles. A railway train, running 50 miles an hour, and
never stopping, would require nearly three weeks for the journey.
Find out whether father's voyage was longer or shorter than this.
2. Measure with a band of paper the distance on the globe from the
Equator on one side to the Equator on the other. Find half this
distance and mark it on the globe. Then mark the same distance on
the other side of the Equator. The points which you have marked are
called the _Poles_. One is the _North Pole_; the other is the _South
Pole_.
3. Learn: _We divide the land of the earth into five great parts;
each of these parts is called a continent. There are five
continents_--_Europe, Asia, Africa, America, Australia. We divide
the water of the earth into five great parts. Each of these parts
is called an ocean. There are five oceans_--_Atlantic, Pacific,
Indian, Arctic, and Antarctic. The Arctic Ocean is round the North
Pole; the Antarctic Ocean is round the South Pole_.HOPE. Yes, and he told me it was the Lord Jesus, that dwelleth on
the right hand of the Most High.  And thus, said he, you must be
justified by him, even by trusting to what he hath done by himself,
in the days of his flesh, and suffered when he did hang on the
tree.  I asked him further, how that man's righteousness could be
of that efficacy to justify another before God?  And he told me he
was the mighty God, and did what he did, and died the death also,
not for himself, but for me; to whom his doings, and the worthiness
of them, should be imputed, if I believed on him.  [Heb. 10,
Rom. 6, Col.  1, 1 Pet. 1]

{348} CHR. And what did you do then?

HOPE. I made my objections against my believing, for that I thought
he was not willing to save me.

CHR. And what said Faithful to you then?

HOPE. He bid me go to him and see.  Then I said it was presumption;
but he said, No, for I was invited to come.  [Matt. 11:28] Then
he gave me a book of Jesus, his inditing, to encourage me the more
freely to come; and he said, concerning that book, that every jot
and tittle thereof stood firmer than heaven and earth.  [Matt.
24:35] Then I asked him, What I must do when I came; and he told
me, I must entreat upon my knees, with all my heart and soul, the
Father to reveal him to me.  [Ps. 95:6, Dan.  6:10, Jer. 29:12,13]
Then I asked him further, how I must make my supplication to him?
And he said, Go, and thou shalt find him upon a mercy-seat, where
he sits all the year long, to give pardon and forgiveness to them
that come.  I told him that I knew not what to say when I came.
And he bid me say to this effect:  God be merciful to me a sinner,
and make me to know and believe in Jesus Christ; for I see, that
if his righteousness had not been, or I have not faith in that
righteousness, I am utterly cast away.  Lord, I have heard that thou
art a merciful God, and hast ordained that thy Son Jesus Christ
should be the Saviour of the world; and moreover, that thou art
willing to bestow him upon such a poor sinner as I am, (and I am a
sinner indeed); Lord, take therefore this opportunity and magnify
thy grace in the salvation of my soul, through thy Son Jesus Christ.
Amen.  [Exo. 25:22, Lev. 16:2, Num. 7:89, Heb. 4:16]

{349} CHR. And did you do as you were bidden?

HOPE. Yes; over, and over, and over.

CHR. And did the Father reveal his Son to you?

HOPE. Not at the first, nor second, nor third, nor fourth, nor
fifth; no, nor at the sixth time neither.

CHR. What did you do then?

HOPE. What!  why I could not tell what to do.

CHR. Had you not thoughts of leaving off praying?

HOPE. Yes; an hundred times twice told.

CHR. And what was the reason you did not?

HOPE. I believed that that was true which had been told me, to
wit, that without the righteousness of this Christ, all the world
could not save me; and therefore, thought I with myself, if I leave
off I die, and I can but die at the throne of grace.  And withal,
this came into my mind, "Though it tarry, wait for it; because it
will surely come, it will not tarry."  [Heb. 2:3] So I continued
praying until the Father showed me his Son.

{350} CHR. And how was he revealed unto you?

HOPE. I did not see him with my bodily eyes, but with the eyes of
my understanding; [Eph. 1:18,19] and thus it was:  One day I was
very sad, I think sadder than at any one time in my life, and this
sadness was through a fresh sight of the greatness and vileness of
my sins.  And as I was then looking for nothing but hell, and the
everlasting damnation of my soul, suddenly, as I thought, I saw
the Lord Jesus Christ look down from heaven upon me, and saying,
"Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved."  [Acts
16:30,31]

{351} But I replied, Lord, I am a great, a very great sinner.  And
he answered, "My grace is sufficient for thee."  [2 Cor.12:9] Then
I said, But, Lord, what is believing?  And then I saw from that
saying, "He that cometh to me shall never hunger, and he that
believeth on me shall never thirst", that believing and coming was
all one; and that he that came, that is, ran out in his heart and
affections after salvation by Christ, he indeed believed in Christ.
[John 6:35] Then the water stood in mine eyes, and I asked further.
But, Lord, may such a great sinner as I am be indeed accepted of
thee, and be saved by thee?  And I heard him say, "And him that
cometh to me, I will in no wise cast out."  [John 6:37] Then I said,
But how, Lord, must I consider of thee in my coming to thee, that
my faith may be placed aright upon thee?  Then he said, "Christ
Jesus came into the world to save sinners."  [1 Tim. 1:15] "He is
the end of the law for righteousness to every one that believeth."
[Rom. 10:4] "He died for our sins, and rose again for our
justification."  [Rom. 4:25] "He loved us, and washed us from our
sins in his own blood."  [Rev. 1:5] "He is mediator betwixt God
and us."  [1 Tim. 2:5] "He ever liveth to make intercession for
us."  [Heb. 7:24,25] From all which I gathered, that I must look
for righteousness in his person, and for satisfaction for my sins
by his blood; that what he did in obedience to his Father's law,
and in submitting to the penalty thereof, was not for himself, but
for him that will accept it for his salvation, and be thankful.
And now was my heart full of joy, mine eyes full of tears, and mine
affections running over with love to the name, people, and ways of
Jesus Christ.

{352} CHR. This was a revelation of Christ to your soul indeed;
but tell me particularly what effect this had upon your spirit.

HOPE. It made me see that all the world, notwithstanding all the
righteousness thereof, is in a state of condemnation.  It made me
see that God the Father, though he be just, can justly justify the
coming sinner.  It made me greatly ashamed of the vileness of my
former life, and confounded me with the sense of mine own ignorance;
for there never came thought into my heart before now that showed
me so the beauty of Jesus Christ.  It made me love a holy life,
and long to do something for the honour and glory of the name of
the Lord Jesus; yea, I thought that had I now a thousand gallons
of blood in my body, I could spill it all for the sake of the Lord
Jesus.

{353} I saw then in my dream that Hopeful looked back and saw
Ignorance, whom they had left behind, coming after.  Look, said he
to Christian, how far yonder youngster loitereth behind.

CHR. Ay, ay, I see him; he careth not for our company.

HOPE. But I trow it would not have hurt him had he kept pace with
us hitherto.

CHR. That is true; but I warrant you he thinketh otherwise.

HOPE. That, I think, he doth; but, however, let us tarry for him.
So they did.

{354} Then Christian said to him, Come away, man, why do you stay
so behind?

IGNOR. I take my pleasure in walking alone, even more a great deal
than in company, unless I like it the better.



* * * * *
15. ELEPHANTS AND TIGERS.

1. In his last letter Tom asked me to tell him something about elephants
and tigers. I will try to do so.

2. Yesterday your uncle and I went out to shoot pigeons.

An Indian chief, or rajah, lent us an elephant to carry us to the
shooting ground.

[Illustration: AN INDIAN RAJAH.]

3. A driver sat on the neck of the huge animal. Instead of a whip
he had a goad of sharp steel.

I did not see him prick the elephant with this goad.

He guided the animal with voice and hand.

4. On the elephant's back there was a large pad upon which we were
to sit.

I could see no ladder, so I wondered how I was to climb up.

Just then the elephant knelt down on his hind legs.

5. Your uncle showed me how to get up. "Here," he said, "is a ladder
of two steps.

The first step is the elephant's foot, the second is the loop of
his tail." 
6.

He held the end of the elephant's tail in his hand and bent it to
make a loop.

When I put my foot on it he lifted the tail, and in this way helped
me on to the elephant's back.

7. When your uncle had climbed up, the elephant jogged off at a good
pace.

He went along rough, narrow paths, over ditches and the beds of
streams.

Never once did he make a false step.

8.

An elephant costs a great deal of money. Only princes and rich men can
afford to keep them. Sometimes a great prince has as many as a
hundred elephants in his stables.

9.

When a prince rides through a city in state his elephants wear
rich cloths, which are studded with gems.

Sometimes the elephants' heads are painted and their tusks are
covered with gold.

10.

In the drawing-room of your uncle's house there is a beautiful tiger
skin.

The tiger that used to wear this skin was shot by your uncle
about three years ago.

[Illustration: {Tiger skin rug}]

11. It was a man-eating tiger--that is, an old tiger that could no
longer run fast enough to catch deer.

This man-eater used to hide near a village. He would creep up
silently behind men and women, and stun them with a blow of his
paw. Then he would drag them away and eat them.

12. The people of the village came to your uncle and begged him to
kill the man-eater. He agreed to do so. Near to the tiger's
drinking-place a little hut was built in a tree. One night
your uncle sat in this hut with his gun on his knee, waiting for
the tiger to come.

13.

Slowly the hours went by, and your uncle felt sure that the tiger
had gone to another place to drink.

Just as he was thinking of going home to bed the huge animal crept
into the moonlight.

14. Nearer and nearer he came. Then your uncle lifted his gun, took
a steady aim, and shot the tiger through the heart.

[Illustration: {Tiger being shot}] 
15.

In the morning there was great joy among the people of the village
because their fierce foe was dead. They hung garlands of flowers
round your uncle's neck, and sang his praises in many songs.
[Illustration: A Tiger Shoot.
(From the picture by Edgar H. Fisher, in the Royal Academy, 1911.)]

16. Now I must close this very long letter.--Best love to you
all.
FATHER.

* * * * * 
16. A LETTER FROM BURMA.--I.
1. MY DEAR CHILDREN,--Since I last wrote to you I have visited
several of the large cities of India. A week ago I was in the largest
city of all.
2. On Christmas morning I sailed down the mouth of the Ganges into
the open sea, on my way to the country of Burma.
3. Now I am in the chief town of Burma, and you will expect me to
tell you something about the land and its people.[Ps. 125:5, Prov. 2:15] It saith they
are naturally out of the good way, that they have not known it.
[Rom. 3] Now, when a man thus thinketh of his ways,--I say, when
he doth sensibly, and with heart-humiliation, thus think, then hath
he good thoughts of his own ways, because his thoughts now agree
with the judgment of the Word of God.

{360} IGNOR. What are good thoughts concerning God?

CHR. Even as I have said concerning ourselves, when our thoughts
of God do agree with what the Word saith of him; and that is, when
we think of his being and attributes as the Word hath taught, of
which I cannot now discourse at large; but to speak of him with
reference to us:  Then we have right thoughts of God, when we
think that he knows us better than we know ourselves, and can see
sin in us when and where we can see none in ourselves; when we
think he knows our inmost thoughts, and that our heart, with all
its depths, is always open unto his eyes; also, when we think that
all our righteousness stinks in his nostrils, and that, therefore,
he cannot abide to see us stand before him in any confidence, even
in all our best performances.

{361} IGNOR. Do you think that I am such a fool as to think God can
see no further than I? or, that I would come to God in the best of
my performances?

CHR. Why, how dost thou think in this matter?

IGNOR. Why, to be short, I think I must believe in Christ for
justification.

CHR. How!  think thou must believe in Christ, when thou seest
not thy need of him!  Thou neither seest thy original nor actual
infirmities; but hast such an opinion of thyself, and of what
thou dost, as plainly renders thee to be one that did never see a
necessity of Christ's personal righteousness to justify thee before
God.  How, then, dost thou say, I believe in Christ?

{362} IGNOR. I believe well enough for all that.

CHR. How dost thou believe?

IGNOR. I believe that Christ died for sinners, and that I shall be
justified before God from the curse, through his gracious acceptance
of my obedience to his law.  Or thus, Christ makes my duties, that
are religious, acceptable to his Father, by virtue of his merits;
and so shall I be justified.

{363} CHR. Let me give an answer to this confession of thy faith:--

1.  Thou believest with a fantastical faith; for this faith is
nowhere described in the Word.

2.  Thou believest with a false faith; because it taketh justification
from the personal righteousness of Christ, and applies it to thy
own.

3.  This faith maketh not Christ a justifier of thy person, but
of thy actions; and of thy person for thy actions' sake, which is
false.

4.  Therefore, this faith is deceitful, even such as will leave
thee under wrath, in the day of God Almighty; for true justifying
faith puts the soul, as sensible of its condition by the law, upon
flying for refuge unto Christ's righteousness, which righteousness
of his is not an act of grace, by which he maketh for justification,
thy obedience accepted with God; but his personal obedience to the
law, in doing and suffering for us what that required at our hands;
this righteousness, I say, true faith accepteth; under the skirt
of which, the soul being shrouded, and by it presented as spotless
before God, it is accepted, and acquit from condemnationFATHER

.

* * * * *
12. OUR INDIAN COUSIN.

1. MY DEAR CHILDREN,--I am now in the north of India, not far
from the great river Ganges. It is a long railway journey from Bombay
to this place. I have been in the train two days and two nights.

2. I am now beginning to understand what a vast land India is. Do
you know that it would make sixteen lands as large as our own?
One in every five of all the people on earth lives in India.

3.

Perhaps you can guess why I have made this long journey from Bombay.

My brother, your uncle, is the chief man in this part of the country.
He and I have been parted for many years. I am now living in his
house.

4. Let me tell you about little Hugh, your cousin. He was born in
India seven years ago, and he has never been to England.

He hopes to come "home" to see you all in a few months' time.

5.

Hugh's home is a big house, all on the ground floor. It has no
upstairs. The rooms are very large and lofty. This is because the
weather is very hot for the greater part of the year. If the rooms
were not large and high, they would be too hot to live in.

[Illustration: {Hugh's house}]
6. In every room there is a beam of wood with a short curtain hanging
from it. This is the punkah. The beam is hung from the roof
by ropes. In the hot weather a boy sits outside and pulls the punkah
to and fro with a rope. In this way he makes a little breeze,
which keeps the room cool.
7. The roof of the house juts out all round and is held up by
pillars.
We sit outside, under the roof, whenever we can. During the heat
of the day we must stay indoors.
8. The garden round the house is very large. There are many tall
palm trees in it. Some of the other trees bear most beautiful
blossoms of crimson, yellow, and blue. All along the front of the
house are many flowerpots, in which roses and other English flowers
are growing.
9. A few days ago little Hugh came to me and asked if he might show
me what he called "the compound.".

{367} IGNOR. You go so fast, I cannot keep pace with you.  Do you
go on before; I must stay a while behind.

Then they said--

  Well, Ignorance, wilt thou yet foolish be,
  To slight good counsel, ten times given thee?
  And if thou yet refuse it, thou shalt know,
  Ere long, the evil of thy doing so.
  Remember, man, in time, stoop, do not fear;
  Good counsel taken well, saves:  therefore hear.
  But if thou yet shalt slight it, thou wilt be
  The loser, (Ignorance), I'll warrant thee.


Then Christian addressed thus himself to his fellow:--

CHR. Well, come, my good Hopeful, I perceive that thou and I must
walk by ourselves again.

{368} So I saw in my dream that they went on apace before,
and Ignorance he came hobbling after.  Then said Christian to his
companion, It pities me much for this poor man, it will certainly
go ill with him at last.

HOPE. Alas!  there are abundance in our town in his condition,
whole families, yea, whole streets, and that of pilgrims too; and
if there be so many in our parts, how many, think you, must there
be in the place where he was born?

CHR. Indeed the Word saith, "He hath blinded their eyes, lest they
should see", &c.  But now we are by ourselves, what do you think
of such men?  Have they at no time, think you, convictions of sin,
and so consequently fears that their state is dangerous?

HOPE. Nay, do you answer that question yourself, for you are the
elder man.

CHR. Then I say, sometimes (as I think) they may; but they being
naturally ignorant, understand not that such convictions tend to
their good; and therefore they do desperately seek to stifle them,
and presumptuously continue to flatter themselves in the way of
their own hearts.

{369} HOPE. I do believe, as you say, that fear tends much to men's
good, and to make them right, at their beginning to go on pilgrimage.

CHR. Without all doubt it doth, if it be right; for so says the
Word, "The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom."  [Prov.
1:7, 9:10, Job 28:28, Ps. 111:10]

{370} HOPE. How will you describe right fear?

CHR. True or right fear is discovered by three things:--

1.  Near the summit lie the early settlers of the town; and in a
conspicuous place upon the brow of the acclivity stands a row of
tombstones several rods in length.

These mark the graves of an ancient and honorable family of townsfolk.

It begetteth and continueth in the soul a great reverence of
God, his Word, and ways, keeping it tender, and making it afraid
to turn from them, to the right hand or to the left, to anything
that may dishonour God, break its peace, grieve the Spirit, or
cause the enemy to speak reproachfully.

HOPE. Well said; I believe you have said the truth.  Are we now
almost got past the Enchanted Ground?

CHR. Why, art thou weary of this discourse?

HOPE. No, verily, but that I would know where we are.

{371} CHR. We have not now above two miles further to go thereon.
But let us return to our matter.  Now the ignorant know not that
such convictions as tend to put them in fear are for their good,
and therefore they seek to stifle them.

HOPE. How do they seek to stifle them?

{372} CHR. 1.  They think that those fears are wrought by the
devil, (though indeed they are wrought of God); and, thinking so,
they resist them as things that directly tend to their overthrow.

2.  They also think that these fears tend to the spoiling of their
faith, when, alas, for them, poor men that they are, they have none
at all!  and therefore they harden their hearts against them.

3.  They presume they ought not to fear; and, therefore, in despite
of them, wax presumptuously confident.

4.  They see that those fears tend to take away from them their
pitiful old self-holiness, and therefore they resist them with all
their might.

{373} HOPE. I know something of this myself; for, before I knew
myself, it was so with me.

CHR. Well, we will leave, at this time, our neighbour Ignorance by
himself, and fall upon another profitable question.

HOPE. With all my heart, but you shall still begin.

CHR. Well then, did you not know, about ten years ago, one Temporary
in your parts, who was a forward man in religion then?

HOPE. Know him!  yes, he dwelt in Graceless, a town about two miles
off of Honesty, and he dwelt next door to one Turnback.

{374} CHR. Right, he dwelt under the same roof with him.  Well,
that man was much awakened once; I believe that then he had some
sight of his sins, and of the wages that were due thereto.

HOPE. I am of your mind, for, my house not being above three miles
from him, he would ofttimes come to me, and that with many tears.
Truly I pitied the man, and was not altogether without hope of him;
but one may see, it is not every one that cries, Lord, Lord.

CHR. He told me once that he was resolved to go on pilgrimage, as
we do now; but all of a sudden he grew acquainted with one Save-self,
and then he became a stranger to me.

{375} HOPE. Now, since we are talking about him, let us a little
inquire into the reason of the sudden backsliding of him and such
others.

CHR. It may be very profitable, but do you begin.

HOPE. Well, then, there are in my judgment four reasons for it:--

{376} 1.  Though the consciences of such men are awakened, yet their
minds are not changed; therefore, when the power of guilt weareth
away, that which provoked them to be religious ceaseth, wherefore
they naturally turn to their own course again, even as we see the
dog that is sick of what he has eaten, so long as his sickness
prevails he vomits and casts up all; not that he doth this of a
free mind (if we may say a dog has a mind), but because it troubleth
his stomach; but now, when his sickness is over, and so his stomach
eased, his desire being not at all alienate from his vomit, he turns
him about and licks up all, and so it is true which is written,
"The dog is turned to his own vomit again."  [2 Pet. 2:22] Thus
I say, being hot for heaven, by virtue only of the sense and fear
of the torments of hell, as their sense of hell and the fears of
damnation chills and cools, so their desires for heaven and salvation
cool also.  So then it comes to pass, that when their guilt and
fear is gone, their desires for heaven and happiness die, and they
return to their course again.

{377} 2.  Another reason is, they have slavish fears that do
overmaster them; I speak now of the fears that they have of men,
for "the fear of man bringeth a snare".  [Prov. 29:25] So then,
though they seem to be hot for heaven, so long as the flames of
hell are about their ears, yet when that terror is a little over,
they betake themselves to second thoughts; namely, that it is good
to be wise, and not to run (for they know not what) the hazard of
losing all, or, at least, of bringing themselves into unavoidable
and unnecessary troubles, and so they fall in with the world againWhen the dry season is over the rain begins to fall.

It comes down in torrents for days together. In some places more
rain falls in a single day than we have in a whole year.

5. During the "rains" the rivers become full to the brim, and the
whole land is fresh and green.

Sometimes the "rains" do not come at all. Then the crops wither
away, and the people starve.

6. In our country we are never sure of the weather. It changes so
often that we talk about it a great deal. In India nobody talks about
the weather. During seven months of the year every day is fine.

7.

In our country we almost always have plenty of water for our crops,
and for drinking and washing. Plenty of fresh water is a great
blessing to a land. In many parts of India water is very scarce.

8. I told you that the great river Ganges is not far away from little
Hugh's home. This grand river begins in the mountains of North
India. I wish you could see these mountains. They are the highest
on earth.

They rise up from the plains like a huge wall, and their tops are
always covered with fields of ice and snow.

9.

These ice-fields slowly move down the mountain sides.

Then they melt, and this gives rise to the Ganges and to the
other great rivers of North India.

10. Millions of the Indian people love the Ganges, and they have
good reason to do so.

It gives water and food to more than twice as many people as dwell
in the British Islands.

11.

Many Indians think that every drop of water in the river is holy.
They believe that if they bathe in its waters their souls will be
washed clean from sin.

[Illustration: {Town on the Ganges}]
12. There is a town by the side of the Ganges which the Indians
say is the holiest place on earth. It is full of temples. Millions
of Indians visit these temples every year.

13.

All along the river bank there are stone steps leading down to the
water.

Standing in the stream are men and women and children who have come
from all parts of India. They wash themselves in the stream,
and pour the holy water over their heads as they pray.

14. People who are very ill are carried to this place, that they
may die by the side of "Mother Ganges."

They die happy if they can see her or hear the sound of her waters during
their last moments.

15. When they die their bodies are taken to the steps. There they
are washed in the river water, and are placed on piles of wood.
Friends set fire to the wood, and soon the bodies are burnt to ashes.
These ashes are thrown into the stream, which bears them to the
distant ocean.

* * * * *
14. INDIAN BOYS AND GIRLS.

1. I am very fond of going about the streets with your uncle. The
Indian children always amuse me.

2. When Indians grow up they are rather grave and sad. The children,
however, are always bright and merry. Indian fathers and mothers are
very fond of their boys. They care very little for their girls.

3. Boys soon become men in India. They begin work at an early age,
and they are married when they are about sixteen. Girls are married a
few years younger.

4. Almost every boy follows the trade of his father. A farmer's son
becomes a farmer, a weaver's son becomes a weaver, and so on.

5.

Many of the boys go to school, but not many of the girls. They, poor
things, begin to work in the house or in the field almost as soon
as they can walk. Much of the hard rough work in India is done by
poor women and girls.

6. A rich father keeps his girls shut up in the back part of his
house.
Their faces are never seen by any man except those of their own
family.
If they go out of the house, they cover themselves from head to
foot with a thick veil. Sometimes they are carried from place to
place in a closely shut box on poles.
7. Are you not sorry for these poor rich girls? I am. They can never
play merry games with boy friends, or go for long walks in the
country.
8. They know nothing of the beautiful world in which they live.
Their rooms are fine, their dresses are grand, and their jewels are
lovely; but they are only poor prisoners after all.
9. Yesterday I went with your uncle to see a village school. There
were only twenty boys in it. The roof was off the schoolhouse, so
the classes were held in the open air.
[Illustration: {A village schoolhouse}]
10. The boys sat on forms, just as you do. The teacher wrote on a
blackboard, and taught the children to do sums with a ball frame.
Each boy had a reading-book. It was not printed in English, but in
the tongue spoken in that part of the country.
11. Some of the boys wrote in copy-books, but most of them wrote
on thin boards, which they used instead of slates. Instead of a
pencil they used a pen made of a reed.
12. Chalk was ground up and wetted in a little cup.

{384} But, being a little strengthened, and better able to bear
their sickness, they walked on their way, and came yet nearer and
nearer, where were orchards, vineyards, and gardens, and their gates
opened into the highway.  Now, as they came up to these places,
behold the gardener stood in the way, to whom the Pilgrims said,
Whose goodly vineyards and gardens are these?  He answered, They are
the King's, and are planted here for his own delight, and also for
the solace of pilgrims.  So the gardener had them into the vineyards,
and bid them refresh themselves with the dainties.  [Deut. 23:24]
He also showed them there the King's walks, and the arbours where
he delighted to be; and here they tarried and slept.

{385} Now I beheld in my dream that they talked more in their sleep
at this time than ever they did in all their journey; and being in
a muse thereabout, the gardener said even to me, Wherefore musest
thou at the matter?  It is the nature of the fruit of the grapes
of these vineyards to go down so sweetly as to cause the lips of
them that are asleep to speak.

{386} So I saw that when they awoke, they addressed themselves to
go up to the city; but, as I said, the reflection of the sun upon
the city (for the city was pure gold) was so extremely glorious
that they could not, as yet, with open face behold it, but through
an instrument made for that purpose.  So I saw, that as I went
on, there met them two men, in raiment that shone like gold; also
their faces shone as the light.  [Rev. 21:18, 2 Cor. 3:18]

{387} These men asked the Pilgrims whence they came; and they told
them.  They also asked them where they had lodged, what difficulties
and dangers, what comforts and pleasures they had met in the way;
and they told them.  Herbert was patronized by James I. who, for an
elegant Latin oration, gave him a sinecure of 120_l_. a-year, for
in those days the only Royal Society of Literature was in the palace;
it is now among subjects, and too little in the Court.

So I saw in my dream that they went
on together, until they came in sight of the gate.

{389} Now, I further saw, that betwixt them and the gate was a river,
but there was no bridge to go over:  the river was very deep.  At
the sight, therefore, of this river, the Pilgrims were much stunned;
but the men that went in with them said, You must go through, or
you cannot come at the gateAt one end, a thick slab of red sandstone, of uncouth shape and
rude appearance, leans aslant, partly buried in the mellow soil.

The moss and lichens, with which its roughly cut back and edges
are overgrown, have been removed from its face, and the quaint
inscription is distinctly legible, whereby the curious idler is
informed that "Here lies, in y'e Hope of a Joyfull Resurrecion,
y'e Body of Maj'r Iohn Bugbee, an Assistant of y'e Colony & A
Iustice of y'e Peace. Born at Austerfield, in y'e County of Lincoln,
England.
Then they asked the men if the waters were
all of a depth.  They said:  No; yet they could not help them in
that case; for, said they, you shall find it deeper or shallower
as you believe in the King of the place.