"The Inventor of British and American Patents is desirous to Sell
or License to Manufacturers, &c., &c....

The above Inventor and Patentee will be greatly obliged if anyone
that he owes money to will forward the amount not later than this
month, otherwise he will not acknowledge after."

--_Financial Times._ 
* * * * * 
"LITTLE WAR PICTURES.

A NOBLE ARMY OF OPTIMISTS IN TRANCE."

--_Straits Times (Singapore)._ 
We wish our pessimists would join them

    .
    
    * * * * *
    THE WATCH DOGS.
    
    LVII.
    
    My Dear Charles,--St. John, in 1914 a
    light-hearted lieut.,
    advancing and retiring
    with his platoon as an all-seeing
    Providence or a short-spoken Company Commander
    might direct, and in 1915 a Brass-hat with a vast amount of knowledge
and only a hundred buff slips or so to write it down on, is now
Second in Command of his regiment.

He tells me he is encamped with his little lot on the forward slope
of a muddy and much pitted ravine.

On the opposite slope are some nasty noisy guns, and at the bottom of the
ravine are the cookers.

When, after much forethought, he has found something to do and has
begun doing it, there is a cry of "Stand clear!" and, with that
prudence which even an Englishman will learn if you do not hustle him
but give him a year or two to find by experience that care should sometimes
be taken, all get to earth. The guns fire; the neighbourhood heaves and
readjusts itself, and a man may then come out again. By the time,
however, he has collected his senses and his materials there is another
"Stand clear!" and back he must go to earth. This is what is
technically known as Rest.

It was not good enough for one of the battalion cooks. No man can do
justice to a mess of pottage by lying on his belly at a distance and
frowning at it. After many movements to and fro, he eventually said be
damned to guns and "Stand clears;" stood on the top of his cooker
(there was nowhere else to stand), and, holding a dixie lid in his
hand and bestowing on the contents of the dixie that encouraging
smile without which no stew can stew, defied all the artillery of
the B.E.F. to do its worst.

It did.

The cook recovered to find himself among his dixies, frizzling pleasantly
and browning nicely in certain parts. Even so, professional interests
over-came any feeling of personal injury. Rising majestically, he
stepped down and advanced upon the nearest gun crew. "Now you've done
it, you blighters!" he shouted, waving an angry fist at them.

"You've been and gone and blown all the pork out of the beans."

The same man went on holiday to the neighbouring town, which is in
reality an ordinarily dull and dirty provincial place, but to the tired
warrior is a haven of rest and a paradise of gaiety and good
things. Here he came into contact with the local A.P.M. in the
following way. The latter was in his office after lunch, brooding
no doubt, when in came a French policeman greatly excited in French.
There was, it appeared, promise of a commotion at the Hotel de
Ville. A British soldier had got mixed up in the queue of honest French
civilians who were waiting outside for the delivery of their legal
papers.

There were no bi-linguists present, but it had been made quite clear
to the Britisher that he must go, and it had been made quite
clear by the Britisher that he should stay. Always outside the Hotel
de Ville at 2.30 of an afternoon was this queue of natives, each waiting
his turn to be admitted to the joyless sanctum of the Commissaire, there
to receive those illegible documents without which no French home
is complete.
Never before had a British soldier fallen in with them, and, when requested
to dismiss, showed signs of being obstreperous.

The A.P.M. buckled on his Sam Browne belt and prepared for the worst,
which he assumed to be but another example of the frailty of human
nature when suddenly confronted with unaccustomed luxuries. When he
got to his prey he found him not quite in the state expected.
Usually at the sight of an A.P.M. a soldier, whatever the strength of his
case, will express regret, promise reform, and make ready to pass on.
This one stood his ground; on no account would he leave the queue. He
explained to the A.P.M. that he was too used to the manifold and subtle
devices of people who wanted to snaffle other people's places in queues.
He was however quite prepared to parley, and was only too glad
to find a fellow-countryman, speaking the right language and having
the right sense of justice, to parley with.

He said he had taken his proper place in the line, with no attempt to
hustle or jostle anyone else. He meant to do no one any harm, and he was
prepared to pay the due price, in current French notes, whatever it might
be.
As he gazed, something
bright and small seemed to twinkle down in the heart of it, vanished,
then twinkled once more like a tiny star. But it could hardly be a star
in such an unlikely situation; and it was too glittering and small for a
glow-worm. Then, as he looked, it winked at him, and so declared itself
to be an eye; and a small face began gradually to grow up round it, like
a frame round a picture.

A brown little face, with whiskers.

A grave round face, with the same twinkle in its eye that had first
attracted his notice.

Small neat ears and thick silky hair.

It was the Water Rat!

Then the two animals stood and regarded each other cautiously.

'Hullo, Mole!' said the Water Rat.

'Hullo, Rat!' said the Mole.

'Would you like to come over?' enquired the Rat presently.

'Oh, its all very well to TALK,' said the Mole, rather pettishly, he
being new to a river and riverside life and its ways.

The Rat said nothing, but stooped and unfastened a rope and hauled
on it; then lightly stepped into a little boat which the Mole had not
observed. It was painted blue outside and white within, and was just the
size for two animals; and the Mole's whole heart went out to it at once,
even though he did not yet fully understand its uses.

The Rat sculled smartly across and made fast. Then he held up his
forepaw as the Mole stepped gingerly down. 'Lean on that!' he said.
'Now then, step lively!' and the Mole to his surprise and rapture found
himself actually seated in the stern of a real boat.

'This has been a wonderful day!' said he, as the Rat shoved off and took
to the sculls again. 'Do you know, I've never been in a boat before in
all my life.'

'What?' cried the Rat, open-mouthed: 'Never been in a--you never--well
I--what have you been doing, then?'

'Is it so nice as all that?' asked the Mole shyly, though he was quite
prepared to believe it as he leant back in his seat and surveyed the
cushions, the oars, the rowlocks, and all the fascinating fittings, and
felt the boat sway lightly under him.

'Nice? It's the ONLY thing,' said the Water Rat solemnly, as he
leant forward for his stroke. 'Believe me, my young friend, there is
NOTHING--absolute nothing--half so much worth doing as simply
messing about in boats. Simply messing,' he went on dreamily:
'messing--about--in--boats; messing----'

'Look ahead, Rat!' cried the Mole suddenly.

It was too late. The boat struck the bank full tilt. The dreamer, the
joyous oarsman, lay on his back at the bottom of the boat, his heels in
the air.

'--about in boats--or WITH boats,' the Rat went on composedly, picking
himself up with a pleasant laugh. 'In or out of 'em, it doesn't matter.
Nothing seems really to matter, that's the charm of it. Whether you get
away, or whether you don't; whether you arrive at your destination or
whether you reach somewhere else, or whether you never get anywhere at
all, you're always busy, and you never do anything in particular; and
when you've done it there's always something else to do, and you can do
it if you like, but you'd much better not. Look here! If you've really
nothing else on hand this morning, supposing we drop down the river
together, and have a long day of it?'

The Mole waggled his toes from sheer happiness, spread his chest with
a sigh of full contentment, and leaned back blissfully into the soft
cushions. 'WHAT a day I'm having!' he said. 'Let us start at once!'

'Hold hard a minute, then!' said the Rat. He looped the painter through
a ring in his landing-stage, climbed up into his hole above, and after
a short interval reappeared staggering under a fat, wicker
luncheon-basket.

'Shove that under your feet,' he observed to the Mole, as he passed
it down into the boat. Then he untied the painter and took the sculls
again.

'What's inside it?' asked the Mole, wriggling with curiosity.

'There's cold chicken inside it,' replied the Rat briefly;
'coldtonguecoldhamcoldbeefpickledgherkinssaladfrenchrollscresssan
dwichespottedmeatgingerbeerlemonadesodawater----'

'O stop, stop,' cried the Mole in ecstacies: 'This is too much!'

'Do you really think so?' enquired the Rat seriously. 'It's only what I
always take on these little excursions; and the other animals are always
telling me that I'm a mean beast and cut it VERY fine!'

The Mole never heard a word he was saying. Absorbed in the new life he
was entering upon, intoxicated with the sparkle, the ripple, the scents
and the sounds and the sunlight, he trailed a paw in the water and
dreamed long waking dreams. The Water Rat, like the good little fellow
he was, sculled steadily on and forebore to disturb him.

'I like your clothes awfully, old chap,' he remarked after some half
an hour or so had passed. 'I'm going to get a black velvet smoking-suit
myself some day, as soon as I can afford it.'

'I beg your pardon,' said the Mole, pulling himself together with an
effort. 'You must think me very rude; but all this is so new to me.
So--this--is--a--River!'

'THE River,' corrected the Rat.

'And you really live by the river? What a jolly life!'

'By it and with it and on it and in it,' said the Rat. 'It's brother
and sister to me, and aunts, and company, and food and drink, and
(naturally) washing. It's my world, and I don't want any other. What it
hasn't got is not worth having, and what it doesn't know is not worth
knowing. Lord! the times we've had together! Whether in winter or
summer, spring or autumn, it's always got its fun and its excitements.
When the floods are on in February, and my cellars and basement are
brimming with drink that's no good to me, and the brown water runs by my
best bedroom window; or again when it all drops away and, shows patches
of mud that smells like plum-cake, and the rushes and weed clog the
channels, and I can potter about dry shod over most of the bed of it and
find fresh food to eat, and things careless people have dropped out of
boats!'

'But isn't it a bit dull at times?' the Mole ventured to ask. 'Just you
and the river, and no one else to pass a word with?'

'No one else to--well, I mustn't be hard on you,' said the Rat with
forbearance. 'You're new to it, and of course you don't know. The bank
is so crowded nowadays that many people are moving away altogether: O
no, it isn't what it used to be, at all. Otters, kingfishers, dabchicks,
moorhens, all of them about all day long and always wanting you to DO
something--as if a fellow had no business of his own to attend to!'

'What lies over THERE' asked the Mole, waving a paw towards a background
of woodland that darkly framed the water-meadows on one side of the
river.

'That? O, that's just the Wild Wood,' said the Rat shortly. 'We don't go
there very much, we river-bankers.'

'Aren't they--aren't they very NICE people in there?' said the Mole, a
trifle nervously.

'W-e-ll,' replied the Rat, 'let me see. The squirrels are all right. AND
the rabbits--some of 'em, but rabbits are a mixed lot. And then there's
Badger, of course. He lives right in the heart of it; wouldn't live
anywhere else, either, if you paid him to do it. Dear old Badger! Nobody
interferes with HIM. They'd better not,' he added significantly.

'Why, who SHOULD interfere with him?' asked the Mole.

'Well, of course--there--are others,' explained the Rat in a hesitating
sort of way.

'Weasels--and stoats--and foxes--and so on. They're all right in a
way--I'm very good friends with them--pass the time of day when we meet,
and all that--but they break out sometimes, there's no denying it, and
then--well, you can't really trust them, and that's the fact.'

The Mole knew well that it is quite against animal-etiquette to dwell
on possible trouble ahead, or even to allude to it; so he dropped the
subject.

'And beyond the Wild Wood again?' he asked: 'Where it's all blue
and dim, and one sees what may be hills or perhaps they mayn't, and
something like the smoke of towns, or is it only cloud-drift?'

'Beyond the Wild Wood comes the Wide World,' said the Rat. 'And that's
something that doesn't matter, either to you or me. I've never been
there, and I'm never going, nor you either, if you've got any sense
at all. Don't ever refer to it again, please. Now then! Here's our
backwater at last, where we're going to lunch.'

Leaving the main stream, they now passed into what seemed at first sight
like a little land-locked lake. Green turf sloped down to either edge,
brown snaky tree-roots gleamed below the surface of the quiet water,
while ahead of them the silvery shoulder and foamy tumble of a weir,
arm-in-arm with a restless dripping mill-wheel, that held up in its
turn a grey-gabled mill-house, filled the air with a soothing murmur
of sound, dull and smothery, yet with little clear voices speaking up
cheerfully out of it at intervals. I realized that, if we kept on in
this way, in ten minutes more we should be out at sea and might
drift away toward Bornholm and the Swedish coast.

It was a desperate situation, and we finally resorted to the least brave,
but most sensible, means imaginable, and began to scream with all our
might, all the time beckoning and waving various objects, showing on
the whole considerable cleverness in the invention of distress signals.
At last we attracted the attention of some pilots standing on the West
mole, who shook their fingers threateningly at us, but finally,
with smiling countenances, threw us a rope. That rescued us from danger.
One of the pilots knew me; his son was one of my playmates. This
doubtless accounts for the fact that the seamen dismissed us with a few
epithets, which might have been worse. I took my cannon under my arm, but
not without having the satisfaction of seeing it admired. Then I went
home, after promising to send out Hans Ketelböter, a lusty sailor-boy
who lived quite near our home, to row back the boat, which was
meanwhile moored to a pile.

This was the most unique among my adventures with water, but by no
means the most dangerous. The most dangerous was at the same time
the most ordinary, because it recurred every time I went swimming
in the sea.

Any one who knows the Baltic seaside resorts, knows the so-called
"reffs." By "reffs" are meant the sandbanks running parallel to the
beach, out a hundred or two hundred paces, and often with very
little water washing over them.

Upon these the swimmers can stand and rest, when, they have crossed the
deep places lying between them and the shore.

In order that they may know exactly where these shallow places are, little
red banners are hoisted over the sandbanks. Here lay for me a daily
temptation.

When the sea was calm and everything normal, my skill as a swimmer was
just sufficient to carry me safely over the deep places to the
nearest sandbank.

But if the conditions were less favorable, or if by chance I let
myself down too soon, so that I had no solid ground beneath my
feet, I was frightened, sometimes almost to death.

Luckily I always managed to get out, though not by myself.
Strength and help came from some other source.

Another danger of water which I was destined to undergo had no connection
with the sea, but occurred on the river, close by the "Bulwark,"
not five hundred paces from our house. I shall tell about it later;
but first I wish to insert here another little occurrence, in which
no help of an angel was needed.

I was not good at swimming, nor at steering or rowing; but one of the
things I could do well, very well indeed, was walking on stilts.
According to our family tradition we came from the region of
Montpelier, whereas I personally ought by rights to be able, in
view of my virtuosity as a stilt-walker, to trace my ancestry back
to the Landes, where the inhabitants are, so to speak, grown fast
to their stilts, and hardly take them off when they go to bed.

To make a long story short, I was a brilliant stilt-walker, and in
comparison with those of the western Garonne region, the home of
the very low stilts, I had the advantage that I could not get my
buskins high enough to suit me, for the little blocks of wood
fastened on the inner side of my stilts were some three feet high.

By taking a quick start and running the ends of the two poles slantingly
into the ground I was able to swing myself without fail upon the
stilt-blocks and to begin immediately my giant stride.

Ordinarily this was an unremunerative art, but on a few occasions I
derived real profit from it, when my stilts enabled me to escape storms
that were about to break over my head.

That was in the days just after Captain Ferber, who had served out his
time with the "Neufchâtellers," retired on a pension and moved to
Swinemünde.

Ferber, whom the Swinemünders called Teinturier, the French translation
of his name, because of his relation to Neufchâtel, came of a very
good family, was, if I mistake not, the son of a high official in
the ministry of finance, who could boast of long-standing relations
to the Berlin Court, dating back to the war times of the year 1813.

This was no doubt the reason why the son, in spite of the fact that he did
not belong to the nobility and was of German extraction--the
Neufchâtel officers were in those days still for the most part
French-Swiss--was permitted to serve with the élite battalion, where he
was well liked, because he was clever, a good comrade, and an author
besides. He wrote novelettes after the fashions then in vogue. But in
spite of his popularity he could not hold his position, because
his fondness for coffee and cognac, which soon became restricted
to the latter, grew upon him so rapidly that he was forced to retire.

His removal to Swinemünde was doubtless due to the fact that seaports
are better suited for such passions than are inland cities.

Fondness for cognac attracts less attention.

Whatever his reason may have been, however, Ferber was soon as popular
in his new place of residence as previously in Berlin, for he had that
kindliness of character which is the "dearest child of the
dram-bottle."

He was very fond of my father, who reciprocated the sentiment. But this
friendship did not spring up at the very beginning of their
acquaintance.

In fact it developed out of a little controversy between them, that is
to say, a defeat sustained by my father, one of whose amiable
peculiarities it was, within twenty-four hours at the latest to
convert his anger at being put to flight, into approbation bordering
on homage for the victor.

His defeat came about thus. One day the assertion was made by
Ferber, that, whether we liked it or not, a German must be looked upon
as the "father of the French Revolution," for Minister Necker,
though born in Geneva, was the son or grandson of a Küstrin postmaster.

This seemed to my father a perfectly preposterous assertion, and
he combated it with a rather supercilious mien, till it was finally
shown to be substantially correct.

Then my father's arrogance, growing out of a conviction of his superior
knowledge, was transformed first into respect and later into friendship,
and even twenty years after, whenever we drove from our Oderbruch
village to the neighboring city of Küstrin, he never had much to
say about Crown Prince Fritz, or Katte's decapitation, but regularly
remarked: "Oh yes, Necker, who may be called the father of the
French Revolution, traced his ancestry back to this city of Küstrin.

I owe the information to Ferber, Captain Ferber, whom we called
Teinturier.

It is a pity he could not give up his _aqua vitæ_. At times it was
pitiable."
Yes, pitiable it was, but not to us children, who, on the contrary,
always broke out into cheers whenever the captain, usually in rather
desolate costume, came staggering up the Great Church Street to
find a place to continue his breakfast.

We used to follow close behind him and tease and taunt him till he would
try to catch and thrash one or the other of us. Occasionally he succeeded;
but I always escaped with ease, because I chose for my teasings
only days when it had rained a short time before.

Then there stood in the street between our house and the church on
the other side a huge pool of water, which became my harbor of
refuge.

Holding my stilts at the proper angle, I sprang quickly upon them as
soon as I saw that Teinturier, in spite of his condition, was close on
my heels, and then I marched triumphantly into the pool of water. There
I stood like a stork on one stilt and presented arms with the other,
as I continued scoffing at him. Cursing and threatening he marched
away, the poor captain. But he took care not to make good his threats,
because in his good moments he did not like to be reminded of the bad
ones.

We had several playgrounds. The one we liked best perhaps was along the
"Bulwark," at the point where the side street branched off from
our house. The whole surroundings were very picturesque, especially in
the winter time, when the ships, stripped of their topmasts, lay at their
moorings, often in three rows, the last pretty far out in the river.

We were allowed to play along the "Bulwark" and practice our rope-walking
art on the stretched hawsers as far as they hung close to the
ground.

Only one thing was prohibited. We were not allowed to go on board the
ships, much less to climb the rope ladders to the mastheads. A very
sensible prohibition. But the more sensible it was, the greater was our
desire to disregard it, and in the game of "robber and wayfarer," of
which we were all very fond, disregarding of this prohibition was
almost a matter of course. Furthermore, discovery lay beyond the range
of probability; our parents were either at their "party" or invited
to dine out. "So let's go ahead.

If anybody tells on us, he will be worse off than we."
So we thought one Sunday in April, 1831.

It must have been about that time of year, for I can still recall the
clear, cold tone of the atmosphere. On the ship there was not a sign
of life, and on the "Bulwark" not a human soul to be seen, which further
proves to me that it was a Sunday.

I, being the oldest and strongest, was the robber, of course.

Of the eight or ten smaller boys only one was in any measure able to
compete with me. That was an illegitimate child, called Fritz Ehrlich
(Honorable), as though to compensate him for his birth. These boys had
set out from the Church Square, the usual starting-point of the chase,
and were already close after me. I arrived at the "Bulwark"
exhausted, and, as there was no other way of escape, ran over a
firm broad plank walk toward the nearest ship, with the whole pack
after me.

This naturally forced me to go on from the first ship to the second and
from the second to the third. There was no going any further, and if
I wished, in spite of this dilemma, to escape my enemies, there was
nothing left for me but to seek a hiding-place on the ship itself,
or at least a spot difficult of access.

I found such a place and climbed up about the height of a man to the top
of the superstructure near the cabin. In this superstructure was usually
to be found, among other rooms, the ship's cuisine. My climbing was
facilitated by steps built in the perpendicular wall.

And there I stood then, temporarily safe, gazing down as a victor at my
pursuers. But the sense of victory did not last long; the steps were there
for others as well as for me, and an instant later Fritz Ehrlich
was also on the roof. Now I was indeed lost if I foiled to find another
way of escape.

So, summoning all my strength, I took as long a running start as the
narrow space would permit and sprang from the roof of the kitchen over
the intervening strip of water back to the second ship and then ran for
the shore, as though chased by all the furies. When I had reached the
shore it was nothing to run to the base in front of our house and be
free. But I was destined not to enjoy my happiness very long, for almost
the very moment I once more had solid ground beneath my feet I
heard cries of distress coming from the third and second ships, and
my name called repeatedly, which made me think something must have
happened.

Swiftly as I had made for the shore over the noisy plank walk, I now
hastened back over it. There was no time to lose. Fritz Ehrlich had
tried to imitate my leap from the kitchen, but, failing to equal my
distance, had fallen into the water between the ships. And there the
poor boy was, digging his nails into the cracks in the ship's hull.
Swimming was out of the question, even if he knew anything about it.
Besides, the water was icy cold. To reach him from the deck with
the means at hand was impossible.

So I grasped a piece of rope hanging from a rope ladder and, letting
myself down the side of the ship, tried every way I could think of to
lengthen my body as much as possible, till finally Fritz was barely able
to catch hold of my left foot, which reached furthest down, while I held
on above with my right hand. "Take hold, Fritz!" But the doughty fellow,
who may have realized that we should both be lost if he really
took a firm hold, contented himself with laying his hand lightly
upon the toe of my boot, and little as that was, it nevertheless
sufficed to keep his head above water.

To be sure, he may have been by natural endowment a "water treader,"
as they are called; or he may have had the traditional luck of the
illegitimate, which seems to me on second thought more probable. In
any case he kept afloat till some people came from the shore and reached
a punt-pole down to him, while some others untied a boat lying at
Hannemann's Clapper and rowed it into the space between the ships
to fish him out. The moment that the saving punt-pole arrived some
man unknown to me reached down from the ladder, seized me by the
collar, and with a vigorous jerk hoisted me back on deck.

On this occasion not a word of reproach was uttered, though I could
not say as much of any other occasion of the kind. The people took
Fritz Ehrlich, drenched and freezing, to a house in the immediate
neighborhood, while the rest of us started home in a very humble
frame of mind.

To be sure, I had also a feeling of elation, despite the fact that my
prospects for the future were not of the pleasantest. But my fears
were not realized. Quite the contrary. The following morning, as I
was starting to school, my father met me in the hall and stopped
me.
Neighbor Pietzker, the good man with the nightcap, had been tattling
again, though with better intentions than usual.

"I've heard the whole business," said my father.

"Why, in the name of heaven, can't you be obedient! But we'll let it
pass, since you acquitted yourself so well.

I know all the details. Pietzker across the street ..."
Hereupon I was allowed to go to school.

SIR RIBBECK OF RIBBECK[3]
By THEODOR FONTANE

Sir Ribbeck of Ribbeck in Havelland-- A pear-tree in his yard did
stand, And in the golden autumn-tide, When pears were shining far and
wide, Sir Ribbeck, when barely the bells struck noon, Would stuff
both his pockets with pears right soon.
If a boy in clogs would come his way, He would call: "My boy, have a
pear today?"

To a girl he'd call: "Little maid over there, Now come here to me, and
I'll give you a pear."

And thus he did ever, as years went by, Till Sir Ribbeck of Ribbeck came
to die.

He felt his end coming, 'twas autumn-tide, And the pears were laughing,
far and wide, Then spoke Sir Ribbeck: "And now I must die.

Lay a pear in my grave, beside me to lie!" From the double-roofed house
in three days more, Sir Ribbeck to his grave they bore.

All the peasants and cotters with solemn face, Did sing: "Lord Jesus, in
Thy Grace"-- And the children moaned with hearts of lead:
"Who will give us a pear?

Now he is dead." Thus moaned the children--that was not good-- Not
knowing old Ribbeck as they should.
The new, to be sure, is a miser hard; Over park and pear-tree he
keeps stern guard.

But the old, who this doubtless could foretell, Distrusting his son,
he knew right well What he was about when he bade them lay A pear in his
grave, on his dying day:

Out of his silent haunt, in the third year, A little pear-tree shoot
did soon appear.

And many a year now comes and goes, But a pear-tree on the grave
there grows, And in the golden autumn-tide, The pears are shining
far and wide.

When a boy o'er the grave-yard wends his way, The tree whispers:
"Boy, have a pear today?"

To a girl it says: "Little maid over there, Come here to me and I'll give
you a pear." So there are blessings still from the hand Of Sir Ribbeck
of Ribbeck in Havelland.

[Footnote 3: Translator: Margarete Münsterberg.]

THE BRIDGE BY THE TAY[4] (1879)

/#
"_When shall we three meet again_".--Macbeth #/

"When shall we three meet again?" "The dam of the bridge at seven
attain!" "By the pier in the middle. I'll put out amain "The
flames." "I too." "I'll come from the north." "And I from the
south."

"From the sea I'll soar forth."
"Ha, that will be a merry-go-round, The bridge must sink into the ground."
"And with the train what shall we do That crosses the bridge at
seven?"

"That too." "That must go too!" "A bawble, a naught, What the hand of
man hath wrought!"
The bridgekeeper's house that stands in the north-- All windows to the
south look forth, And the inmates there without peace or rest Are gazing
southward with anxious zest; They gaze and wait a light to spy That
over the water "I'm coming!"

should cry, "I'm coming--night and storm are vain-- I from Edinburg the
train!"
And the bridgekeeper says: "I see a gleam On the other shore. That's
it, I deem.

Now mother, away with bad dreams, for see, Our Johnnie is coming--he'll
want his tree, And what is left of candles, light As if it were on
Christmas night.
Twice we shall have our Christmas cheer-- In eleven minutes he must
be here."

It is the train, with the gale it vies And panting by the south tower
flies.
"There's the bridge still," says Johnnie. "But that's all right, We'll
make it surely out of spite!

A solid boiler and double steam Should win in such a fight, 'twould
seem, Let it rave and rage and run at its bent, We'll put it down: this
element!

And our bridge is our pride. I must laugh always When I think back of
the olden days, And all the trouble and misery That with the wretched
boat would be; And many cheerful Christmas nights I spent at the ferryman's
house--the lights From our windows I'd watch and count them o'er,
And could not reach the other shore."

The bridgekeeper's house that stands in the north-- All windows to the
south look forth, And the inmates there without peace or rest Are gazing
southward with anxious zest:

More furious grew the winds' wild games, And now, as if the sky poured
flames, Comes shooting down a radiance bright O'er the water below.

--Now again all is night.

"When shall we three meet again?" "At midnight the top of the mountain
attain!" "By the alder-stem on the high moorland plain!" "I'll come."
"And I too." "And the number I'll tell." "And I the names." "I the torture
right well." "Whoo!

Like splinters the woodwork crashed in two." "A bawble,--a naught, What
the hand of man hath wrought!"

[Footnote 4: Translator: Margarete Münsterberg.]
* * * * *
'I beg your pardon,' said the Rat slowly, as he chewed a straw, 'but
did I overhear you say something about "WE," and "START," and "THIS
AFTERNOON?"'

'Now, you dear good old Ratty,' said Toad, imploringly, 'don't begin
talking in that stiff and sniffy sort of way, because you know you've
GOT to come. I can't possibly manage without you, so please consider it
settled, and don't argue--it's the one thing I can't stand. You surely
don't mean to stick to your dull fusty old river all your life, and just
live in a hole in a bank, and BOAT? I want to show you the world! I'm
going to make an ANIMAL of you, my boy!'

'I don't care,' said the Rat, doggedly. 'I'm not coming, and that's
flat. And I AM going to stick to my old river, AND live in a hole, AND
boat, as I've always done. And what's more, Mole's going to stick me and
do as I do, aren't you, Mole?'

'Of course I am,' said the Mole, loyally. 'I'll always stick to you,
Rat, and what you say is to be--has got to be. All the same, it sounds
as if it might have been--well, rather fun, you know!' he added,
wistfully. Poor Mole! The Life Adventurous was so new a thing to him,
and so thrilling; and this fresh aspect of it was so tempting; and he
had fallen in love at first sight with the canary-coloured cart and all
its little fitments.

The Rat saw what was passing in his mind, and wavered. He hated
disappointing people, and he was fond of the Mole, and would do almost
anything to oblige him. Toad was watching both of them closely.

'Come along in, and have some lunch,' he said, diplomatically, 'and
we'll talk it over. We needn't decide anything in a hurry. Of course,
_I_ don't really care. I only want to give pleasure to you fellows.
"Live for others!" That's my motto in life.'

During luncheon--which was excellent, of course, as everything at Toad
Hall always was--the Toad simply let himself go. Disregarding the Rat,
he proceeded to play upon the inexperienced Mole as on a harp. Naturally
a voluble animal, and always mastered by his imagination, he painted the
prospects of the trip and the joys of the open life and the roadside
in such glowing colours that the Mole could hardly sit in his chair for
excitement. Somehow, it soon seemed taken for granted by all three
of them that the trip was a settled thing; and the Rat, though still
unconvinced in his mind, allowed his good-nature to over-ride his
personal objections. He could not bear to disappoint his two friends,
who were already deep in schemes and anticipations, planning out each
day's separate occupation for several weeks ahead.

When they were quite ready, the now triumphant Toad led his companions
to the paddock and set them to capture the old grey horse, who, without
having been consulted, and to his own extreme annoyance, had been told
off by Toad for the dustiest job in this dusty expedition. He frankly
preferred the paddock, and took a deal of catching. Meantime Toad packed
the lockers still tighter with necessaries, and hung nosebags, nets of
onions, bundles of hay, and baskets from the bottom of the cart. At last
the horse was caught and harnessed, and they set off, all talking at
once, each animal either trudging by the side of the cart or sitting on
the shaft, as the humour took him. It was a golden afternoon. The
smell of the dust they kicked up was rich and satisfying; out of thick
orchards on either side the road, birds called and whistled to them
cheerily; good-natured wayfarers, passing them, gave them 'Good-day,'
or stopped to say nice things about their beautiful cart; and rabbits,
sitting at their front doors in the hedgerows, held up their fore-paws,
and said, 'O my! O my! O my!'

Late in the evening, tired and happy and miles from home, they drew
up on a remote common far from habitations, turned the horse loose to
graze, and ate their simple supper sitting on the grass by the side of
the cart. Toad talked big about all he was going to do in the days to
come, while stars grew fuller and larger all around them, and a yellow
moon, appearing suddenly and silently from nowhere in particular, came
to keep them company and listen to their talk. At last they turned in to
their little bunks in the cart; and Toad, kicking out his legs, sleepily
said, 'Well, good night, you fellows! This is the real life for a
gentleman! Talk about your old river!'

'I DON'T talk about my river,' replied the patient Rat. 'You KNOW I
don't, Toad. But I THINK about it,' he added pathetically, in a lower
tone: 'I think about it--all the time!'

The Mole reached out from under his blanket, felt for the Rat's paw in
the darkness, and gave it a squeeze. 'I'll do whatever you like, Ratty,'
he whispered. 'Shall we run away to-morrow morning, quite early--VERY
early--and go back to our dear old hole on the river?'

'No, no, we'll see it out,' whispered back the Rat. 'Thanks awfully, but
I ought to stick by Toad till this trip is ended. It wouldn't be safe
for him to be left to himself. It won't take very long. His fads never
do. Good night!'

The end was indeed nearer than even the Rat suspected.

After so much open air and excitement the Toad slept very soundly, and
no amount of shaking could rouse him out of bed next morning. So the
Mole and Rat turned to, quietly and manfully, and while the Rat saw to
the horse, and lit a fire, and cleaned last night's cups and platters,
and got things ready for breakfast, the Mole trudged off to the nearest
village, a long way off, for milk and eggs and various necessaries the
Toad had, of course, forgotten to provide. The hard work had all been
done, and the two animals were resting, thoroughly exhausted, by
the time Toad appeared on the scene, fresh and gay, remarking what a
pleasant easy life it was they were all leading now, after the cares and
worries and fatigues of housekeeping at home.

They had a pleasant ramble that day over grassy downs and along narrow
by-lanes, and camped as before, on a common, only this time the
two guests took care that Toad should do his fair share of work. In
consequence, when the time came for starting next morning, Toad was by
no means so rapturous about the simplicity of the primitive life, and
indeed attempted to resume his place in his bunk, whence he was hauled
by force. Their way lay, as before, across country by narrow lanes, and
it was not till the afternoon that they came out on the high-road, their
first high-road; and there disaster, fleet and unforeseen, sprang out
on them--disaster momentous indeed to their expedition, but simply
overwhelming in its effect on the after-career of Toad.

They were strolling along the high-road easily, the Mole by the horse's
head, talking to him, since the horse had complained that he was being
frightfully left out of it, and nobody considered him in the least;
the Toad and the Water Rat walking behind the cart talking together--at
least Toad was talking, and Rat was saying at intervals, 'Yes,
precisely; and what did YOU say to HIM?'--and thinking all the time
of something very different, when far behind them they heard a faint
warning hum; like the drone of a distant bee. Glancing back, they saw a
small cloud of dust, with a dark centre of energy, advancing on them at
incredible speed, while from out the dust a faint 'Poop-poop!' wailed
like an uneasy animal in pain. Hardly regarding it, they turned to
resume their conversation, when in an instant (as it seemed) the
peaceful scene was changed, and with a blast of wind and a whirl of
sound that made them jump for the nearest ditch, It was on them! The
'Poop-poop' rang with a brazen shout in their ears, they had a moment's
glimpse of an interior of glittering plate-glass and rich morocco, and
the magnificent motor-car, immense, breath-snatching, passionate, with
its pilot tense and hugging his wheel, possessed all earth and air for
the fraction of a second, flung an enveloping cloud of dust that blinded
and enwrapped them utterly, and then dwindled to a speck in the far
distance, changed back into a droning bee once more.

The old grey horse, dreaming, as he plodded along, of his quiet paddock,
in a new raw situation such as this simply abandoned himself to his
natural emotions. Rearing, plunging, backing steadily, in spite of
all the Mole's efforts at his head, and all the Mole's lively language
directed at his better feelings, he drove the cart backwards towards the
deep ditch at the side of the road. It wavered an instant--then there
was a heartrending crash--and the canary-coloured cart, their pride and
their joy, lay on its side in the ditch, an irredeemable wreck.

The Rat danced up and down in the road, simply transported with passion.
'You villains!' he shouted, shaking both fists, 'You scoundrels, you
highwaymen, you--you--roadhogs!--I'll have the law of you! I'll report
you! I'll take you through all the Courts!' His home-sickness had quite
slipped away from him, and for the moment he was the skipper of the
canary-coloured vessel driven on a shoal by the reckless jockeying of
rival mariners, and he was trying to recollect all the fine and biting
things he used to say to masters of steam-launches when their wash, as
they drove too near the bank, used to flood his parlour-carpet at home.

Toad sat straight down in the middle of the dusty road, his legs
stretched out before him, and stared fixedly in the direction of the
disappearing motor-car. He breathed short, his face wore a placid
satisfied expression, and at intervals he faintly murmured 'Poop-poop!'

The Mole was busy trying to quiet the horse, which he succeeded in
doing after a time. Then he went to look at the cart, on its side in the
ditch. It was indeed a sorry sight. Panels and windows smashed, axles
hopelessly bent, one wheel off, sardine-tins scattered over the wide
world, and the bird in the bird-cage sobbing pitifully and calling to be
let out.

The Rat came to help him, but their united efforts were not sufficient
to right the cart. 'Hi! Toad!' they cried. 'Come and bear a hand, can't
you!'

The Toad never answered a word, or budged from his seat in the road; so
they went to see what was the matter with him. They found him in a sort
of a trance, a happy smile on his face, his eyes still fixed on the
dusty wake of their destroyer. At intervals he was still heard to murmur
'Poop-poop!'

The Rat shook him by the shoulder. 'Are you coming to help us, Toad?' he
demanded sternly.

'Glorious, stirring sight!' murmured Toad, never offering to move. 'The
poetry of motion! The REAL way to travel! The ONLY way to travel! Here
to-day--in next week to-morrow! Villages skipped, towns and cities
jumped--always somebody else's horizon! O bliss! O poop-poop! O my! O
my!'

'O STOP being an ass, Toad!' cried the Mole despairingly.

'And to think I never KNEW!' went on the Toad in a dreamy monotone. 'All
those wasted years that lie behind me, I never knew, never even DREAMT!
But NOW--but now that I know, now that I fully realise! O what a flowery
track lies spread before me, henceforth! What dust-clouds shall spring
up behind me as I speed on my reckless way! What carts I shall fling
carelessly into the ditch in the wake of my magnificent onset! Horrid
little carts--common carts--canary-coloured carts!'

'What are we to do with him?' asked the Mole of the Water Rat.

'Nothing at all,' replied the Rat firmly. 'Because there is really
nothing to be done. You see, I know him from of old. He is now
possessed. He has got a new craze, and it always takes him that way, in
its first stage. He'll continue like that for days now, like an animal
walking in a happy dream, quite useless for all practical purposes.
Never mind him. Let's go and see what there is to be done about the
cart.'

A careful inspection showed them that, even if they succeeded in
righting it by themselves, the cart would travel no longer. The axles
were in a hopeless state, and the missing wheel was shattered into
pieces.

The Rat knotted the horse's reins over his back and took him by the
head, carrying the bird cage and its hysterical occupant in the other
hand. 'Come on!' he said grimly to the Mole. 'It's five or six miles to
the nearest town, and we shall just have to walk it. The sooner we make
a start the better.'

'But what about Toad?' asked the Mole anxiously, as they set off
together. 'We can't leave him here, sitting in the middle of the road
by himself, in the distracted state he's in! It's not safe. Supposing
another Thing were to come along?'

'O, BOTHER Toad,' said the Rat savagely; 'I've done with him!'

They had not proceeded very far on their way, however, when there was a
pattering of feet behind them, and Toad caught them up and thrust a paw
inside the elbow of each of them; still breathing short and staring into
vacancy.

'Now, look here, Toad!' said the Rat sharply: 'as soon as we get to the
town, you'll have to go straight to the police-station, and see if they
know anything about that motor-car and who it belongs to, and lodge a
complaint against it. And then you'll have to go to a blacksmith's or a
wheelwright's and arrange for the cart to be fetched and mended and
put to rights. It'll take time, but it's not quite a hopeless smash.
Meanwhile, the Mole and I will go to an inn and find comfortable rooms
where we can stay till the cart's ready, and till your nerves have
recovered their shock.'

'Police-station! Complaint!'murmured Toad dreamily. 'Me COMPLAIN of that
beautiful, that heavenly vision that has been vouchsafed me! MEND THE
CART! I've done with carts for ever. I never want to see the cart, or to
hear of it, again. O, Ratty! You can't think how obliged I am to you for
consenting to come on this trip! I wouldn't have gone without you,
and then I might never have seen that--that swan, that sunbeam, that
thunderbolt! I might never have heard that entrancing sound, or smelt
that bewitching smell! I owe it all to you, my best of friends!'

The Rat turned from him in despair. 'You see what it is?' he said to the
Mole, addressing him across Toad's head: 'He's quite hopeless. I give
it up--when we get to the town we'll go to the railway station, and
with luck we may pick up a train there that'll get us back to riverbank
to-night. And if ever you catch me going a-pleasuring with this
provoking animal again!'

He snorted, and during the rest of that weary trudge addressed his
remarks exclusively to Mole.

On reaching the town they went straight to the station and deposited
Toad in the second-class waiting-room, giving a porter twopence to keep
a strict eye on him. They then left the horse at an inn stable, and gave
what directions they could about the cart and its contents. Eventually,
a slow train having landed them at a station not very far from Toad
Hall, they escorted the spell-bound, sleep-walking Toad to his door, put
him inside it, and instructed his housekeeper to feed him, undress him,
and put him to bed. Then they got out their boat from the boat-house,
sculled down the river home, and at a very late hour sat down to
supper in their own cosy riverside parlour, to the Rat's great joy and
contentment.

The following evening the Mole, who had risen late and taken things very
easy all day, was sitting on the bank fishing, when the Rat, who had
been looking up his friends and gossiping, came strolling along to
find him. 'Heard the news?' he said. 'There's nothing else being talked
about, all along the river bank. Toad went up to Town by an early train
this morning. And he has ordered a large and very expensive motor-car.'


III. THE WILD WOOD

The Mole had long wanted to make the acquaintance of the Badger. He
seemed, by all accounts, to be such an important personage and, though
rarely visible, to make his unseen influence felt by everybody about
the place. But whenever the Mole mentioned his wish to the Water Rat
he always found himself put off. 'It's all right,' the Rat would say.
'Badger'll turn up some day or other--he's always turning up--and then
I'll introduce you. The best of fellows! But you must not only take him
AS you find him, but WHEN you find him.'

'Couldn't you ask him here dinner or something?' said the Mole.

'He wouldn't come,' replied the Rat simply. 'Badger hates Society, and
invitations, and dinner, and all that sort of thing.'

'Well, then, supposing we go and call on HIM?' suggested the Mole.

'O, I'm sure he wouldn't like that at ALL,' said the Rat, quite alarmed.
'He's so very shy, he'd be sure to be offended. I've never even ventured
to call on him at his own home myself, though I know him so well.
Besides, we can't. It's quite out of the question, because he lives in
the very middle of the Wild Wood.'

'Well, supposing he does,' said the Mole. 'You told me the Wild Wood was
all right, you know.'

'O, I know, I know, so it is,' replied the Rat evasively. 'But I think
we won't go there just now. Not JUST yet. It's a long way, and he
wouldn't be at home at this time of year anyhow, and he'll be coming
along some day, if you'll wait quietly.'

The Mole had to be content with this. But the Badger never came along,
and every day brought its amusements, and it was not till summer was
long over, and cold and frost and miry ways kept them much indoors, and
the swollen river raced past outside their windows with a speed that
mocked at boating of any sort or kind, that he found his thoughts
dwelling again with much persistence on the solitary grey Badger, who
lived his own life by himself, in his hole in the middle of the Wild
Wood.

In the winter time the Rat slept a great deal, retiring early and rising
late. During his short day he sometimes scribbled poetry or did other
small domestic jobs about the house; and, of course, there were always
animals dropping in for a chat, and consequently there was a good deal
of story-telling and comparing notes on the past summer and all its
doings.

Such a rich chapter it had been, when one came to look back on it all!
With illustrations so numerous and so very highly coloured! The pageant
of the river bank had marched steadily along, unfolding itself in
scene-pictures that succeeded each other in stately procession. Purple
loosestrife arrived early, shaking luxuriant tangled locks along the
edge of the mirror whence its own face laughed back at it. Willow-herb,
tender and wistful, like a pink sunset cloud, was not slow to follow.
Comfrey, the purple hand-in-hand with the white, crept forth to take its
place in the line; and at last one morning the diffident and delaying
dog-rose stepped delicately on the stage, and one knew, as if
string-music had announced it in stately chords that strayed into a
gavotte, that June at last was here. One member of the company was still
awaited; the shepherd-boy for the nymphs to woo, the knight for whom the
ladies waited at the window, the prince that was to kiss the sleeping
summer back to life and love. But when meadow-sweet, debonair and
odorous in amber jerkin, moved graciously to his place in the group,
then the play was ready to begin.

And what a play it had been! Drowsy animals, snug in their holes
while wind and rain were battering at their doors, recalled still
keen mornings, an hour before sunrise, when the white mist, as yet
undispersed, clung closely along the surface of the water; then the
shock of the early plunge, the scamper along the bank, and the radiant
transformation of earth, air, and water, when suddenly the sun was with
them again, and grey was gold and colour was born and sprang out of the
earth once more. They recalled the languorous siesta of hot mid-day,
deep in green undergrowth, the sun striking through in tiny golden
shafts and spots; the boating and bathing of the afternoon, the rambles
along dusty lanes and through yellow cornfields; and the long, cool
evening at last, when so many threads were gathered up, so many
friendships rounded, and so many adventures planned for the morrow.
There was plenty to talk about on those short winter days when the
animals found themselves round the fire; still, the Mole had a good deal
of spare time on his hands, and so one afternoon, when the Rat in his
arm-chair before the blaze was alternately dozing and trying over rhymes
that wouldn't fit, he formed the resolution to go out by himself and
explore the Wild Wood, and perhaps strike up an acquaintance with Mr.
Badger.

It was a cold still afternoon with a hard steely sky overhead, when he
slipped out of the warm parlour into the open air. The country lay bare
and entirely leafless around him, and he thought that he had never seen
so far and so intimately into the insides of things as on that winter
day when Nature was deep in her annual slumber and seemed to have kicked
the clothes off. Copses, dells, quarries and all hidden places, which
had been mysterious mines for exploration in leafy summer, now exposed
themselves and their secrets pathetically, and seemed to ask him to
overlook their shabby poverty for a while, till they could riot in rich
masquerade as before, and trick and entice him with the old deceptions.
It was pitiful in a way, and yet cheering--even exhilarating. He was
glad that he liked the country undecorated, hard, and stripped of its
finery. He had got down to the bare bones of it, and they were fine
and strong and simple. He did not want the warm clover and the play of
seeding grasses; the screens of quickset, the billowy drapery of beech
and elm seemed best away; and with great cheerfulness of spirit
he pushed on towards the Wild Wood, which lay before him low and
threatening, like a black reef in some still southern sea.

There was nothing to alarm him at first entry. Twigs crackled under his
feet, logs tripped him, funguses on stumps resembled caricatures, and
startled him for the moment by their likeness to something familiar
and far away; but that was all fun, and exciting. It led him on, and he
penetrated to where the light was less, and trees crouched nearer and
nearer, and holes made ugly mouths at him on either side.

Everything was very still now. The dusk advanced on him steadily,
rapidly, gathering in behind and before; and the light seemed to be
draining away like flood-water.

Then the faces began.

It was over his shoulder, and indistinctly, that he first thought he saw
a face; a little evil wedge-shaped face, looking out at him from a hole.
When he turned and confronted it, the thing had vanished.

He quickened his pace, telling himself cheerfully not to begin imagining
things, or there would be simply no end to it. He passed another hole,
and another, and another; and then--yes!--no!--yes! certainly a little
narrow face, with hard eyes, had flashed up for an instant from a hole,
and was gone. He hesitated--braced himself up for an effort and strode
on. Then suddenly, and as if it had been so all the time, every hole,
far and near, and there were hundreds of them, seemed to possess its
face, coming and going rapidly, all fixing on him glances of malice and
hatred: all hard-eyed and evil and sharp.

If he could only get away from the holes in the banks, he thought,
there would be no more faces. He swung off the path and plunged into the
untrodden places of the wood.

Then the whistling began.

Very faint and shrill it was, and far behind him, when first he heard
it; but somehow it made him hurry forward. Then, still very faint and
shrill, it sounded far ahead of him, and made him hesitate and want to
go back. As he halted in indecision it broke out on either side, and
seemed to be caught up and passed on throughout the whole length of the
wood to its farthest limit. They were up and alert and ready, evidently,
whoever they were! And he--he was alone, and unarmed, and far from any
help; and the night was closing in.

Then the pattering began.

He thought it was only falling leaves at first, so slight and delicate
was the sound of it. Then as it grew it took a regular rhythm, and he
knew it for nothing else but the pat-pat-pat of little feet still a very
long way off. Was it in front or behind? It seemed to be first one, and
then the other, then both. It grew and it multiplied, till from every
quarter as he listened anxiously, leaning this way and that, it seemed
to be closing in on him. As he stood still to hearken, a rabbit came
running hard towards him through the trees. He waited, expecting it to
slacken pace, or to swerve from him into a different course. Instead,
the animal almost brushed him as it dashed past, his face set and hard,
his eyes staring. 'Get out of this, you fool, get out!' the Mole heard
him mutter as he swung round a stump and disappeared down a friendly
burrow.

The pattering increased till it sounded like sudden hail on the dry
leaf-carpet spread around him. The whole wood seemed running now,
running hard, hunting, chasing, closing in round something or--somebody?
In panic, he began to run too, aimlessly, he knew not whither. He ran
up against things, he fell over things and into things, he darted under
things and dodged round things. At last he took refuge in the deep dark
hollow of an old beech tree, which offered shelter, concealment--perhaps
even safety, but who could tell? Anyhow, he was too tired to run any
further, and could only snuggle down into the dry leaves which had
drifted into the hollow and hope he was safe for a time. And as he lay
there panting and trembling, and listened to the whistlings and the
patterings outside, he knew it at last, in all its fullness, that dread
thing which other little dwellers in field and hedgerow had encountered
here, and known as their darkest moment--that thing which the Rat had
vainly tried to shield him from--the Terror of the Wild Wood!

Meantime the Rat, warm and comfortable, dozed by his fireside. His paper
of half-finished verses slipped from his knee, his head fell back, his
mouth opened, and he wandered by the verdant banks of dream-rivers. Then
a coal slipped, the fire crackled and sent up a spurt of flame, and he
woke with a start. Remembering what he had been engaged upon, he reached
down to the floor for his verses, pored over them for a minute, and
then looked round for the Mole to ask him if he knew a good rhyme for
something or other.

But the Mole was not there.

He listened for a time. The house seemed very quiet.

Then he called 'Moly!' several times, and, receiving no answer, got up
and went out into the hall.

The Mole's cap was missing from its accustomed peg. His goloshes, which
always lay by the umbrella-stand, were also gone.

The Rat left the house, and carefully examined the muddy surface of the
ground outside, hoping to find the Mole's tracks. There they were,
sure enough. The goloshes were new, just bought for the winter, and the
pimples on their soles were fresh and sharp. He could see the imprints
of them in the mud, running along straight and purposeful, leading
direct to the Wild Wood.

The Rat looked very grave, and stood in deep thought for a minute or
two. Then he re-entered the house, strapped a belt round his waist,
shoved a brace of pistols into it, took up a stout cudgel that stood in
a corner of the hall, and set off for the Wild Wood at a smart pace.

It was already getting towards dusk when he reached the first fringe of
trees and plunged without hesitation into the wood, looking anxiously
on either side for any sign of his friend. Here and there wicked little
faces popped out of holes, but vanished immediately at sight of the
valorous animal, his pistols, and the great ugly cudgel in his grasp;
and the whistling and pattering, which he had heard quite plainly on his
first entry, died away and ceased, and all was very still. He made his
way manfully through the length of the wood, to its furthest edge; then,
forsaking all paths, he set himself to traverse it, laboriously working
over the whole ground, and all the time calling out cheerfully, 'Moly,
Moly, Moly! Where are you? It's me--it's old Rat!'

He had patiently hunted through the wood for an hour or more, when at
last to his joy he heard a little answering cry. Guiding himself by the
sound, he made his way through the gathering darkness to the foot of
an old beech tree, with a hole in it, and from out of the hole came a
feeble voice, saying 'Ratty! Is that really you?'

The Rat crept into the hollow, and there he found the Mole, exhausted
and still trembling. 'O Rat!' he cried, 'I've been so frightened, you
can't think!'

'O, I quite understand,' said the Rat soothingly. 'You shouldn't really
have gone and done it, Mole. I did my best to keep you from it. We
river-bankers, we hardly ever come here by ourselves. If we have to
come, we come in couples, at least; then we're generally all right.
Besides, there are a hundred things one has to know, which we understand
all about and you don't, as yet. I mean passwords, and signs, and
sayings which have power and effect, and plants you carry in your
pocket, and verses you repeat, and dodges and tricks you practise; all
simple enough when you know them, but they've got to be known if you're
small, or you'll find yourself in trouble. Of course if you were Badger
or Otter, it would be quite another matter.'

'Surely the brave Mr. Toad wouldn't mind coming here by himself, would
he?' inquired the Mole.

'Old Toad?' said the Rat, laughing heartily. 'He wouldn't show his face
here alone, not for a whole hatful of golden guineas, Toad wouldn't.'

The Mole was greatly cheered by the sound of the Rat's careless
laughter, as well as by the sight of his stick and his gleaming pistols,
and he stopped shivering and began to feel bolder and more himself
again.

'Now then,' said the Rat presently, 'we really must pull ourselves
together and make a start for home while there's still a little light
left. It will never do to spend the night here, you understand. Too
cold, for one thing.'

'Dear Ratty,' said the poor Mole, 'I'm dreadfully sorry, but I'm simply
dead beat and that's a solid fact. You MUST let me rest here a while
longer, and get my strength back, if I'm to get home at all.'

'O, all right,' said the good-natured Rat, 'rest away. It's pretty
nearly pitch dark now, anyhow; and there ought to be a bit of a moon
later.'

So the Mole got well into the dry leaves and stretched himself out, and
presently dropped off into sleep, though of a broken and troubled sort;
while the Rat covered himself up, too, as best he might, for warmth, and
lay patiently waiting, with a pistol in his paw.

When at last the Mole woke up, much refreshed and in his usual spirits,
the Rat said, 'Now then! I'll just take a look outside and see if
everything's quiet, and then we really must be off.'

He went to the entrance of their retreat and put his head out. Then
the Mole heard him saying quietly to himself, 'Hullo! hullo!
here--is--a--go!'

'What's up, Ratty?' asked the Mole.

'SNOW is up,' replied the Rat briefly; 'or rather, DOWN. It's snowing
hard.'

The Mole came and crouched beside him, and, looking out, saw the wood
that had been so dreadful to him in quite a changed aspect. Holes,
hollows, pools, pitfalls, and other black menaces to the wayfarer
were vanishing fast, and a gleaming carpet of faery was springing up
everywhere, that looked too delicate to be trodden upon by rough feet.
A fine powder filled the air and caressed the cheek with a tingle in its
touch, and the black boles of the trees showed up in a light that seemed
to come from below.

'Well, well, it can't be helped,' said the Rat, after pondering. 'We
must make a start, and take our chance, I suppose. The worst of it is, I
don't exactly know where we are. And now this snow makes everything look
so very different.'

It did indeed. The Mole would not have known that it was the same
wood. However, they set out bravely, and took the line that seemed
most promising, holding on to each other and pretending with invincible
cheerfulness that they recognized an old friend in every fresh tree that
grimly and silently greeted them, or saw openings, gaps, or paths with
a familiar turn in them, in the monotony of white space and black
tree-trunks that refused to vary.

An hour or two later--they had lost all count of time--they pulled
up, dispirited, weary, and hopelessly at sea, and sat down on a fallen
tree-trunk to recover their breath and consider what was to be done.
They were aching with fatigue and bruised with tumbles; they had fallen
into several holes and got wet through; the snow was getting so deep
that they could hardly drag their little legs through it, and the trees
were thicker and more like each other than ever. There seemed to be no
end to this wood, and no beginning, and no difference in it, and, worst
of all, no way out.

'We can't sit here very long,' said the Rat. 'We shall have to make
another push for it, and do something or other. The cold is too
awful for anything, and the snow will soon be too deep for us to wade
through.' He peered about him and considered. 'Look here,' he went on,
'this is what occurs to me. There's a sort of dell down here in front of
us, where the ground seems all hilly and humpy and hummocky. We'll make
our way down into that, and try and find some sort of shelter, a cave
or hole with a dry floor to it, out of the snow and the wind, and there
we'll have a good rest before we try again, for we're both of us pretty
dead beat. Besides, the snow may leave off, or something may turn up.'

So once more they got on their feet, and struggled down into the dell,
where they hunted about for a cave or some corner that was dry and
a protection from the keen wind and the whirling snow. I myself
liked to stand by the splintery lath trough, in which the skittle-boy
rolled back the balls.

My only reason for choosing this position was because I had heard a
short time before that one of the players at this very alley, in
catching a ball as it rolled to him, had run a long lath splinter
under the nail of his index finger.

That had made such an impression on me that I always stood there
shuddering for fear of a repetition of the accident, which fortunately
did not occur.

When I finally grew tired of waiting I stepped through a lattice gate,
always hanging aslant and always creaky, into a garden plot running
along close by the skittle-alley and parallel with it. It was a genuine
peasant's garden, with touch-me-nots and mignonette in bloom, and
in one place the mallows grew so tall that they formed a lane.

Then when the sun went down behind the forest the Golm, which lay to
the west, was bathed in red light, and the metal ball on its tall
pillar looked down, like a sphere of gold, upon the village and the
skittle-garden.

Myriads of mosquitoes hung in the air, and the bumble bees flew back and
forth between the box-edged beds.

Our visitors usually left at the beginning of August, and when
September came the last of the hotel guests departed from the city.

If anybody chose to remain longer it was inconvenient for the landlords,
in which connection the following scene occurred.

A man, a Berliner of course, on returning to his hotel, after accompanying
some departing friends to their steamer, sat down leisurely by his host
and hostess, rubbed his hands together, and said: "Well, Hoppensack,
at last the Berliners are all gone, or at least nearly all of them;
now we shall have a good time, now it will be cozy."

He expected, of course, that the host and hostess would agree with him
most heartily.

But instead of that he found himself looking into long faces.

Finally he screwed up his courage and asked why they were so
indifferent.

"Why, good heavens, Mr.

Schünemann," said Hoppensack, "a recorder and his wife came to us the
last of May and now it is almost the middle of September. We want
to be alone again, you see." As Mrs.

Hoppensack nodded approvingly, there was nothing left for Schünemann
to do but to depart himself the next day.

Not long after the last summer guests had gone the equinoctial storms set
in, and, if it was a bad year, they lasted on into November. First the
chestnuts fell, then the tiles rattled down from the roof, and from
the eaves-troughs, always placed with their outlets close by bedroom
windows, the rain splashed noisily down into the yard. In the course
of time, scattered clouds sailed across the clearing sky and the
air turned cold.

Everybody felt the chilliness, and all day long there was an old woodchopper
at work in the shed. My father would often go down to see him, take the
ax and split wood for him a half-hour at a time.

Social activities were at a standstill during these late autumn
days.

People were recovering from the strain of the summer season and
storing up strength for winter entertainments.

Before these began there was an interregnum of several weeks,
the slaughtering and baking times, the latter coinciding with the
Christmas period. First came the slaughtering of geese. A regular household
without a goose-killing time could hardly have been thought of. Many
things had to be taken into account. First of all, perhaps, were the
feathers to make new beds, which were always needed for guest chambers;
but the chief concern were the smoked goose-breasts, almost as important
articles as the hams and sides of bacon hanging in the chimney.

Shortly before St.
Martin's day, if enough geese had been collected to supply the
needs, they were penned up for fattening, in the court, which gave
rise to a horrible cackling, well calculated to rob us of our night's
rest for a whole week.

But a day was straightway set for the beginning of the feast, about the
middle of November. In the court, in a lean-to built near the end of
the house, and, strange to say, with a dove-cote over it, was the
servants' room, in which, beside the cook, two house-maids slept,
provided always they did any sleeping.

The coachman was supposed, according to a rule of the house, to occupy
the straw-loft, but was happy to forego the independence of these quarters,
which went with his position, preferring by his presence to crowd still
worse the already crowded space of the servants' room, in full
accord with Schiller's lines,
"Room is in the smallest hovel For a happy, loving pair."

But when goose-killing time came it meant a very considerable further
overcrowding, for on the evening that the massacring was to begin there
was added to the number of persons usually quartered in the servants'
room a special force of old women, four or five in number, who at
other times earned a living at washing or weeding.

Then the sacrificial festivities began, always late in the evening.
Through the wide-open door--open, because otherwise it would not have been
possible to endure the stifling air--the stars shone into the smoky room,
which was dimly lighted by a tallow candle, with always a thief in the
candle.

Near the door stood in a semi-circle the five slaughter priestesses,
each with a goose between her knees, and as they bored holes through
the skullcaps of the poor fowls, with sharp kitchen knives--a procedure,
the necessity of which I have never understood--they sang all sorts
of folk-songs, the text of which formed a strange contrast, as well
to the murderous act as to the mournful melody.

At least one had to suppose this to be the case, for the maids, who
sat on the edge of the bed with their guest from the straw-loft between
them, followed the folksongs with never-ending merriment, and at the
passages that sounded specially mournful they even burst into cheers.
Both my parents were morally strict, and they often discussed the
question, whether there were not some way to put a stop to this
insolent conduct, but they finally gave it up. My father had a lurking
suspicion that such a custom had existed in antiquity, and, after he-had
looked the matter up, said: "It is a repetition of ancient conditions,
the Roman saturnalia, or, what amounts to the same thing, a case where
the servants temporarily lord it over the so-called lords." When he had
thus classified the occurrence historically he was satisfied, the more
so as the maids always amused him the following morning by lowering their
eyes in a most unusually modest fashion. Then he would make fantastically
extravagant remarks, as though _Gil Blas_ had been his favorite book.
That was not the case, however.

He read Walter Scott exclusively, for which I am grateful to him even
to this day, since, even then, a few crumbs fell from his table for
me. His favorite among all the works was _Quintin Durward_, probably
on account of its French subject.

I have here further to add that the terrors of this goose-killing
time were by no means ended with the slaughter night and the
mournful melodies. On the contrary, they lasted at least three or
four days longer, for the slaughtering time was also the time when
the giblets dressed with goose-blood were served daily at our table,
a dish which, according to the Pomeranian view, stands unrivaled
in the realm of cookery.

Furthermore my father considered it his duty to support the view
peculiar to this region, and, when the great steaming platter
appeared, would say: "Ah, that is fine!

Just eat some of this; it is the black soup of the Spartans, full of
strength and stamina." But I observed that he, along with the rest of
us, picked out the dried fruit and almond dumplings, leaving the nourishing
gravy for the servants outside, above all for the slaughtering and
mourning women, who by their boring operations had established the most
legitimate claim to it.

About a fortnight later came the pig-killing, toward which my feeling
remained exactly the same as on that occasion when, hardly seven
years of age, I had fled from the city toward Alt-Ruppin, in order
to escape, not only the spectacle, but a whole gamut of
ear-and-heart-rending sounds.

But I had meanwhile grown out of childhood into boyhood, and a boy,
whether he will or no, feels honor-bound manfully to take everything
that comes along, even if his own deepest nature revolts against it.

That the prospect of rice pudding with raisins in it was a contributing
factor in this comedy of bravery, I am unable to say, for fond as
I am of good things to eat, I was always, during the weeks just
preceding Christmas, half upset by the smell of hot grease that
drifted through the house.

At least I never had what could be called a really good appetite
during this period, despite the fact that it would have been particularly
worth while just then. Especially would such have been the case when, as
usually happened about the first of December, a stag was sent in
from the chief forester's and was hung up, eviscerated, as game
usually is, against the gable end of the servants' house.

Day after day the cook would go to this horrible gable ornament and
cut out, first the haunch, then the shoulders and legs, with the
result that we always heaved a sigh of relief when the glory of
this venison was a thing of the past.

A far happier time was the baking week, which began with spice-nuts
and sugar cookies, and ended with bretzels, wreath-cakes, and cakes baked
on tins. Not only were we admitted to the bakeroom, where there was a
most alluring odor of bitter almonds and grated lemons; we also received,
as a foretaste of Christmas, a bountiful supply of little cake-rolls,
baked especially for us children. "I know," said my mother, "that
the children will upset their stomachs eating them, but even that is
better than that they should be restricted to too low a diet.

They shall have joyful holiday feeling during all these days, and nothing
can give it to them better than holiday cakes." There is something
in that view, and it may be absolutely right if the children are thoroughly
robust. But we were not so robust that the principle could be applied to
us without modification. And so, about Christmas time, I was always
much given to crying.

On New Year's Eve there was a club ball, which I, being the oldest
child, was allowed to witness.

I took my position in one corner of the hall and looked on with vacillating
feelings. When the dancing couples whirled past me I was happy, on the
one hand, because I was permitted to stand there as a sort of guest and
share in the pleasure with my eyes, and yet, on the other hand, I
was unhappy, because I was merely an onlooker instead of a participator
in the dance. My personal insignificance weighed heavy upon me, doubly
heavy because of the gastric condition I was regularly in at this
reason, and it continued so until the nightwatchman, wrapped in his long
blue cloak, came into the hall at midnight and, after blowing a
preliminary signal on his horn, wished everybody a happy New Year. Then,
as if by magic, my feeling of sentimentality vanished entirely, and
I was carried away by the comic grotesqueness of the scene, and soon
regained my freedom and buoyancy of spirit.

Just about this time social activities began, taking the form of a series
of weekly feasts, many of which resembled that of Belshazzar, in so far
as a spirit hand was at the very time writing the bankruptcy of the host
upon the wall. However, my knowledge of the details of these feasts
was derived only from hearsay.

But any special banquets, whether great or small, that fell to the
lot of our own house I saw with my own eyes and it is about these
that I now propose to tell.

When it came our turn to entertain, the whole house was pervaded with
a feeling of solemnity, which had a certain similarity to the feeling
at the time of a wedding. Furthermore, a parallel to the tripartite
division into wedding-eve celebration, wedding day, and the day after,
appeared in the form of preparation day, real feast-day, and eating
of the remnants. Which of these three days deserved the prize may
remain an open question, but I am inclined to believe I liked the
first the best.

To be sure, it was unepicurean and called for much self-restraint, but
it was rich in anticipation of glorious things to come.

On this day of preparation the widow Gaster, a celebrated cook, came
to our house, as she did to all other houses on similar occasions.
Her personal appearance united complacence with dignity, and by virtue
of this latter quality she was received with respect and unlimited
confidence. Because of a dislike, easily understood, for all the things
she had to prepare day in and day out, especially sweets, she lived-almost
exclusively on red wine, deriving the little other sustenance she needed
from the vapors of hot grease, with which she was continually surrounded.
Her arrival at our house was always a signal for me to plant myself near
the kitchen, where everything that took place could be observed and,
incidentally, admired. It was always her first task to bake a tree-cake
on a spit. She kept a record of all the tree-cakes she baked, and when
the number reached a thousand the housewives of Swinemünde gave her a
well-deserved feast in celebration of the achievement. To be sure,
tree-cakes are to be had even today, but they are degenerations, weak,
spongy, and pale-cheeked, whereas in those days they had a happy firmness,
which in the most successful specimens rose to crispness, accompanied
by a scale of colors running from the darkest ocher to the brightest
yellow.

It always gave me great pleasure to watch a tree-cake come into being.
Toward the back wall of a huge fireplace stood a low half-dome, built
of bricks, the top projecting forward like a roof, the bottom slanting
toward the back. Along this slanting part was built a narrow charcoal
fire about four feet long and by it were placed two small iron
supports, upon which a roasting spit was laid, with a contrivance for
turning it.
However, the spit resting upon the supports proved to be something
more than a mere rod.

In fact the spit itself was run lengthwise through a hollow wooden cone,
which had a covering of greased paper over its outer surface, and the
purpose of which was to form a core for the tree-cake. Then, with a tin
spoon fastened upon a long stick, the cook began to pour on a thin
batter, which at first dripped off in a way that made the method of
application appear futile, and this continued for a considerable length
of time. But from the moment that the batter became more consistent, and
the dripping slower, hope began to revive, and in a few hours the
splendidly browned and copiously jagged tree-cake was taken off the
wooden cone.

All this had a symbolical significance.

The successful completion of this _pièce de résistance_ inspired
confidence in the success of the feast itself.
The tree-cake cast the horoscope, so to speak, of the whole affair.

I shall pass over the kitchen activities on the day of the entertainment
and describe instead the feast itself.

Along extension table was moved into my mother's parlor--the only room
available for the purpose--and soon stood well set in front of the
moire sofa with the three hundred silver studs.

The guests were not seated at the table till the candles were lit. The
man who presided over the banquet always sat with his back toward
the Schinkel mirror, whereas all the other guests could, with little
or no inconvenience, observe themselves in the glass.

So far as I can recall they were always gentlemen's dinner parties, with
twelve or fourteen persons, and only on rare occasions did my
mother appear at the table, then usually accompanied by her sister,
who often visited us for months at a time in the winter season and
was in those days still very young and handsome.

It was always a specially difficult matter to assign her a suitable
place, and only when old Mr.
von Flemming and Privy Councillor Kind were present was she in any
degree safe from extremely ardent attentions. It was almost impossible
to protect her from such attentions. The men had respect for virtue,
perhaps, though I have my doubts even about that, but virtuous airs were
considered in bad taste, and where was the line to be drawn between
reality and appearance?

That the ladies retired from the table toward the end of the meal and
appeared again only for a brief quarter of an hour to do the honors at
coffee, goes without saying.

I have spoken above of the culinary art of good Mrs.

Gaster, but in spite of that art the bill of fare was really simple,
especially in comparison with the luxury prevalent nowadays at dinner
parties.
Simple, I say, and yet stable.

No man was willing to fall behind a set standard, nor did he care
to go beyond it.

The soup was followed by a fish course, and that, without fail, by
French turnips and smoked goose-breast. Then came a huge roast, and
finally a sweet dish, with fruits, spice-cakes, and Königsberg marchpane.
An almost greater simplicity prevailed with respect to the wines. After
the soup sherry was passed. Then a red wine of moderate price and
moderate quality gained the ascendant and held sway till coffee was
served.

So the peculiar feature of these festivities did not lie in the materials
consumed, but, strange to say, in a certain spiritual element, in the
tone that prevailed. This varied considerably, when we take into account
the beginning and the end.

The beginning was marked by toasts in fine style, and occasionally,
especially if the feast was at the same time a family party--a birthday
celebration or something of the sort--there were even verses,
which from the point of view of regularity of form and cleverness of
ideas left nothing to be desired.
Only recently I found among my father's papers some of these literary
efforts and was astonished to see how good they were. Humor, wit, and
playing on words were never lacking. There were special occasions when
even deep emotion, was expressed and then those who were farthest
from having a proper feeling, but nearest to a state of delirium,
arose regularly from their seats and marched up to the speaker to
embrace and kiss him.

This kissing scene always denoted the beginning of the second half
of the feast. The further the dinner advanced the freer became the
conversation, and, when it had reached the stage where all feeling of
restraint was cast aside, the most insolent and often the rudest badgering
was indulged in, or, if for any reason this was not allowed, the
company began to rally certain individuals, or, as we might say,
began to poke fun at them.

One of the choicest victims of this favorite occupation of the whole
round table was my papa. It had long been known that when it was a question
of conversation he had three hobbies, viz., personal ranks and
decorations in the Prussian State, the population of all cities and
hamlets according to the latest census, and the names and ducal
titles of the French marshals, including an unlimited number of
Napoleonic anecdotes, the latter usually in the original.

Occasionally this original version was disputed from the point of view
of sentence structure and grammar, whereupon my father, when
driven into a corner, would reply with imperturbable repose: "My French
feeling tells me that it must be thus, thus and not otherwise," a
declaration which naturally served but to increase the hilarity.

Yes, indeed, Napoleon and his marshals!

My father's knowledge in this field was simply stupendous, and I wager
there was not in that day a single historian, nor is there any now, who,
so far as French war stories and personal anecdotes of the period
from Marengo to Waterloo are concerned, would have been in any sense
of the word qualified to enter into competition with him.

Where he got all his material is an enigma to me. The only explanation
I can offer is that he had in his memory a pigeonhole, into which
fell naturally everything he found that appealed to his passion,
in his constant reading of journals and miscellanies

.

* * * * *
When we had been safely lodged, at Midsummer, 1827, in the house with
the gigantic roof and the wooden eavestrough, into which my father
could easily lay his hand, this question immediately presented
itself:
"What is to become of the children now?

To what school shall we send them?"
I had to cuff his head once or twice to get any
sense out of it at all. At last I managed to extract from him that Mole
had been seen in the Wild Wood last night by one of them. It was the
talk of the burrows, he said, how Mole, Mr. Rat's particular friend,
was in a bad fix; how he had lost his way, and "They" were up and out
hunting, and were chivvying him round and round. "Then why didn't any of
you DO something?" I asked. "You mayn't be blest with brains, but there
are hundreds and hundreds of you, big, stout fellows, as fat as butter,
and your burrows running in all directions, and you could have taken
him in and made him safe and comfortable, or tried to, at all events."
"What, US?" he merely said: "DO something? us rabbits?" So I cuffed him
again and left him. There was nothing else to be done. At any rate, I
had learnt something; and if I had had the luck to meet any of "Them"
I'd have learnt something more--or THEY would.'

'Weren't you at all--er--nervous?' asked the Mole, some of yesterday's
terror coming back to him at the mention of the Wild Wood.

'Nervous?' The Otter showed a gleaming set of strong white teeth as he
laughed. 'I'd give 'em nerves if any of them tried anything on with me.
Here, Mole, fry me some slices of ham, like the good little chap you
are. I'm frightfully hungry, and I've got any amount to say to Ratty
here. Haven't seen him for an age.'

So the good-natured Mole, having cut some slices of ham, set the
hedgehogs to fry it, and returned to his own breakfast, while the Otter
and the Rat, their heads together, eagerly talked river-shop, which is
long shop and talk that is endless, running on like the babbling river
itself.

A plate of fried ham had just been cleared and sent back for more, when
the Badger entered, yawning and rubbing his eyes, and greeted them all
in his quiet, simple way, with kind enquiries for every one. 'It must
be getting on for luncheon time,' he remarked to the Otter. 'Better stop
and have it with us. You must be hungry, this cold morning.'

'Rather!' replied the Otter, winking at the Mole. 'The sight of these
greedy young hedgehogs stuffing themselves with fried ham makes me feel
positively famished.'

The hedgehogs, who were just beginning to feel hungry again after their
porridge, and after working so hard at their frying, looked timidly up
at Mr. Badger, but were too shy to say anything.

'Here, you two youngsters be off home to your mother,' said the Badger
kindly. 'I'll send some one with you to show you the way. You won't want
any dinner to-day, I'll be bound.'

He gave them sixpence apiece and a pat on the head, and they went off
with much respectful swinging of caps and touching of forelocks.

Presently they all sat down to luncheon together. The Mole found himself
placed next to Mr. Badger, and, as the other two were still deep
in river-gossip from which nothing could divert them, he took the
opportunity to tell Badger how comfortable and home-like it all felt to
him. 'Once well underground,' he said, 'you know exactly where you are.
Nothing can happen to you, and nothing can get at you. You're entirely
your own master, and you don't have to consult anybody or mind what
they say. Things go on all the same overhead, and you let 'em, and don't
bother about 'em. When you want to, up you go, and there the things are,
waiting for you.'

The Badger simply beamed on him. 'That's exactly what I say,' he
replied. 'There's no security, or peace and tranquillity, except
underground. And then, if your ideas get larger and you want to
expand--why, a dig and a scrape, and there you are! If you feel your
house is a bit too big, you stop up a hole or two, and there you are
again! No builders, no tradesmen, no remarks passed on you by fellows
looking over your wall, and, above all, no WEATHER. Look at Rat, now. A
couple of feet of flood water, and he's got to move into hired lodgings;
uncomfortable, inconveniently situated, and horribly expensive. Take
Toad. I say nothing against Toad Hall; quite the best house in these
parts, AS a house. But supposing a fire breaks out--where's Toad?
Supposing tiles are blown off, or walls sink or crack, or windows get
broken--where's Toad? Supposing the rooms are draughty--I HATE a draught
myself--where's Toad? No, up and out of doors is good enough to roam
about and get one's living in; but underground to come back to at
last--that's my idea of HOME.'

The Mole assented heartily; and the Badger in consequence got very
friendly with him. 'When lunch is over,' he said, 'I'll take you all
round this little place of mine. I can see you'll appreciate it. You
understand what domestic architecture ought to be, you do.'

After luncheon, accordingly, when the other two had settled themselves
into the chimney-corner and had started a heated argument on the subject
of EELS, the Badger lighted a lantern and bade the Mole follow him.
Crossing the hall, they passed down one of the principal tunnels, and
the wavering light of the lantern gave glimpses on either side of rooms
both large and small, some mere cupboards, others nearly as broad and
imposing as Toad's dining-hall. A narrow passage at right angles led
them into another corridor, and here the same thing was repeated. The
Mole was staggered at the size, the extent, the ramifications of it all;
at the length of the dim passages, the solid vaultings of the crammed
store-chambers, the masonry everywhere, the pillars, the arches, the
pavements. 'How on earth, Badger,' he said at last, 'did you ever find
time and strength to do all this? It's astonishing!'

'It WOULD be astonishing indeed,' said the Badger simply, 'if I HAD
done it. But as a matter of fact I did none of it--only cleaned out the
passages and chambers, as far as I had need of them. There's lots more
of it, all round about. I see you don't understand, and I must explain
it to you. Well, very long ago, on the spot where the Wild Wood waves
now, before ever it had planted itself and grown up to what it now
is, there was a city--a city of people, you know. Here, where we are
standing, they lived, and walked, and talked, and slept, and carried on
their business. Here they stabled their horses and feasted, from here
they rode out to fight or drove out to trade. They were a powerful
people, and rich, and great builders. They built to last, for they
thought their city would last for ever.'

'But what has become of them all?' asked the Mole.

'Who can tell?' said the Badger. 'People come--they stay for a while,
they flourish, they build--and they go. It is their way. But we remain.
There were badgers here, I've been told, long before that same city ever
came to be. And now there are badgers here again. We are an enduring
lot, and we may move out for a time, but we wait, and are patient, and
back we come. And so it will ever be.'

'Well, and when they went at last, those people?' said the Mole.

'When they went,' continued the Badger, 'the strong winds and persistent
rains took the matter in hand, patiently, ceaselessly, year after year.
Perhaps we badgers too, in our small way, helped a little--who knows?
It was all down, down, down, gradually--ruin and levelling and
disappearance. Then it was all up, up, up, gradually, as seeds grew
to saplings, and saplings to forest trees, and bramble and fern came
creeping in to help. Leaf-mould rose and obliterated, streams in their
winter freshets brought sand and soil to clog and to cover, and in
course of time our home was ready for us again, and we moved in. Up
above us, on the surface, the same thing happened. Animals arrived,
liked the look of the place, took up their quarters, settled down,
spread, and flourished. They didn't bother themselves about the
past--they never do; they're too busy. The place was a bit humpy
and hillocky, naturally, and full of holes; but that was rather an
advantage. And they don't bother about the future, either--the future
when perhaps the people will move in again--for a time--as may very well
be. The Wild Wood is pretty well populated by now; with all the usual
lot, good, bad, and indifferent--I name no names. It takes all sorts to
make a world. But I fancy you know something about them yourself by this
time.'

'I do indeed,' said the Mole, with a slight shiver.

'Well, well,' said the Badger, patting him on the shoulder, 'it was your
first experience of them, you see. They're not so bad really; and we
must all live and let live. But I'll pass the word around to-morrow, and
I think you'll have no further trouble. Any friend of MINE walks where
he likes in this country, or I'll know the reason why!'

When they got back to the kitchen again, they found the Rat walking up
and down, very restless. The underground atmosphere was oppressing him
and getting on his nerves, and he seemed really to be afraid that the
river would run away if he wasn't there to look after it. So he had his
overcoat on, and his pistols thrust into his belt again. 'Come along,
Mole,' he said anxiously, as soon as he caught sight of them. 'We must
get off while it's daylight. Don't want to spend another night in the
Wild Wood again.'

'It'll be all right, my fine fellow,' said the Otter. 'I'm coming along
with you, and I know every path blindfold; and if there's a head that
needs to be punched, you can confidently rely upon me to punch it.'

'You really needn't fret, Ratty,' added the Badger placidly. 'My
passages run further than you think, and I've bolt-holes to the edge
of the wood in several directions, though I don't care for everybody to
know about them. When you really have to go, you shall leave by one of
my short cuts. Meantime, make yourself easy, and sit down again.'

The Rat was nevertheless still anxious to be off and attend to his
river, so the Badger, taking up his lantern again, led the way along a
damp and airless tunnel that wound and dipped, part vaulted, part hewn
through solid rock, for a weary distance that seemed to be miles. At
last daylight began to show itself confusedly through tangled growth
overhanging the mouth of the passage; and the Badger, bidding them
a hasty good-bye, pushed them hurriedly through the opening, made
everything look as natural as possible again, with creepers, brushwood,
and dead leaves, and retreated.

They found themselves standing on the very edge of the Wild Wood. Rocks
and brambles and tree-roots behind them, confusedly heaped and tangled;
in front, a great space of quiet fields, hemmed by lines of hedges black
on the snow, and, far ahead, a glint of the familiar old river, while
the wintry sun hung red and low on the horizon. The Otter, as knowing
all the paths, took charge of the party, and they trailed out on a
bee-line for a distant stile. Pausing there a moment and looking back,
they saw the whole mass of the Wild Wood, dense, menacing, compact,
grimly set in vast white surroundings; simultaneously they turned and
made swiftly for home, for firelight and the familiar things it played
on, for the voice, sounding cheerily outside their window, of the river
that they knew and trusted in all its moods, that never made them afraid
with any amazement.

As he hurried along, eagerly anticipating the moment when he would be at
home again among the things he knew and liked, the Mole saw clearly that
he was an animal of tilled field and hedge-row, linked to the ploughed
furrow, the frequented pasture, the lane of evening lingerings,
the cultivated garden-plot. For others the asperities, the stubborn
endurance, or the clash of actual conflict, that went with Nature in the
rough; he must be wise, must keep to the pleasant places in which his
lines were laid and which held adventure enough, in their way, to last
for a lifetime.


V. DULCE DOMUM

The sheep ran huddling together against the hurdles, blowing out thin
nostrils and stamping with delicate fore-feet, their heads thrown back
and a light steam rising from the crowded sheep-pen into the frosty air,
as the two animals hastened by in high spirits, with much chatter and
laughter. They were returning across country after a long day's outing
with Otter, hunting and exploring on the wide uplands where certain
streams tributary to their own River had their first small beginnings;
and the shades of the short winter day were closing in on them, and they
had still some distance to go. Plodding at random across the plough,
they had heard the sheep and had made for them; and now, leading from
the sheep-pen, they found a beaten track that made walking a lighter
business, and responded, moreover, to that small inquiring something
which all animals carry inside them, saying unmistakably, 'Yes, quite
right; THIS leads home!'

'It looks as if we were coming to a village,' said the Mole somewhat
dubiously, slackening his pace, as the track, that had in time become
a path and then had developed into a lane, now handed them over to the
charge of a well-metalled road. The animals did not hold with villages,
and their own highways, thickly frequented as they were, took an
independent course, regardless of church, post office, or public-house.

'Oh, never mind!' said the Rat. 'At this season of the year they're
all safe indoors by this time, sitting round the fire; men, women,
and children, dogs and cats and all. We shall slip through all right,
without any bother or unpleasantness, and we can have a look at them
through their windows if you like, and see what they're doing.'

The rapid nightfall of mid-December had quite beset the little village
as they approached it on soft feet over a first thin fall of powdery
snow. Little was visible but squares of a dusky orange-red on either
side of the street, where the firelight or lamplight of each cottage
overflowed through the casements into the dark world without. Most of
the low latticed windows were innocent of blinds, and to the lookers-in
from outside, the inmates, gathered round the tea-table, absorbed in
handiwork, or talking with laughter and gesture, had each that happy
grace which is the last thing the skilled actor shall capture--the
natural grace which goes with perfect unconsciousness of observation.
I myself have been in Danzig, and came near going to Königsberg, too,
but something intervened. Have you ever heard perchance who it was that
finally captured Danzig after the brave defense of our General
Kalckreuth?"
"No, papa."

"Well, it is not to be expected. Very few people do know it, and the
so-called higher educated never know it. Well, it was General Lefèvre,
a man of rare bravery, upon whom Napoleon later bestowed the title
of _Duc de Dantzic_, spelled with a final c, in which regard the
languages differ. That was in the year 1807."
"After the battle of Jena?"
"Yes, it may be put that way; but only in the same sense as if you were
to say, it was after the Seven Years' War."
"I don't understand, papa."
"Doesn't matter. I mean, Jena was too long ago. But one might say it
was after the battle of Prussian Eylau, a fearfully bloody battle, in
which the Russian Guard was almost annihilated, and in which Napoleon,
before surrendering, said to his favorite Duroc: 'Duroc, today I have
made the acquaintance of the sixth great power of Europe, _la
boue_.'"
"What does that mean?"
"_La boue_ means the mud. But one can express it more strongly in German,
and I am inclined to think that Napoleon, who, when he felt like
it, had something cynical about him, really meant this stronger
expression."

"What is cynical?"
"Cynical--hm, cynical--it is a word often used, and one might say,
cynical is the same as rough or brutal. But I presume it may be defined
more accurately. We will look it up later in the encyclopedia.
It is well to be informed about such things, but one does not need to
know everything on the spur of the moment."
Such was the character of the geography lessons, always ending with
historical anecdotes. But he preferred to begin at once with history,
or what seemed to him history. And here I must mention his pronounced
fondness for all the events and the persons concerned in them between
the siege of Toulon and the imprisonment on the island of St. Helena.

He was always reverting to these persons and things. I have elsewhere
named his favorites, with Ney and Lannes at the head of the list,
but in that enumeration I forgot to mention one man, who stood
perhaps nearer to his heart than these, namely, Latour d'Auvergne,
of whom he had told me any number of anecdotes back in our Ruppin
days.

These were now repeated. According to the new stories Latour d'Auvergne
bore the title of the "First Grenadier of France," because in spite of
his rank of general he always stood in the rank and file, next to
the right file-leader of the Old Guard. Then when he fell, in the
battle of Neuburg, Napoleon gave orders that the heart of the
"First Grenadier" be placed in an urn and carried along with the troop,
and that his name, Latour d'Auvergne, be regularly called at every
roll-call, and the soldier serving as file-leader be instructed to
answer in his stead and tell where he was. This was about what I
had long ago learned by heart from my father's stories; but his
fondness for this hero was so great that, whenever it was at all
possible, he returned to him and asked the same questions. Or, to be
more accurate, the same scene was enacted, for it was a scene.

"Do you know Latour d'Auvergne?" he usually began.

"Certainly. He was the First Grenadier of France."
"Good. And do you also know how he was honored after he was dead?"
"Certainly."
"Then tell me how it was."
"Very well; but you must first stand up, papa, and be file-leader, or I
can't do it."
Then he would actually rise from his seat on the sofa and in true military
fashion take his position before me as file-leader of the Old Guard,
while I myself, little stick-in-the-mud that I was, assumed the part
of the roll-calling officer. Then I began to call the names:

"Latour d'Auvergne!"
"He is not here," answered my father in a basso profundo voice.

"Where is he, pray?"
"He died on the field of honor."
Once in awhile my mother attended these peculiar lessons--the one
about Latour, however, was never ventured in her presence--and she
did not fail to give us to understand, by her looks, that she
considered this whole method, which my father with an inimitable
expression of countenance called his "Socratic method," exceedingly
dubious.

But she, by nature wholly conventional, not only in this particular, but
in others, was absolutely wrong, for, to repeat, I owe in fact to
these lessons, and the similar conversations growing out of them,
all the best things, at least all the most practical things, I know.

Of all that my father was able to teach me nothing has been forgotten
and nothing has proved useless for my purposes. Not only have these
stories been of hundredfold benefit to me socially throughout my long
life, they have also, in my writing, been ever at hand as a Golden
Treasury, and if I were asked, to what teacher I felt most deeply
indebted, I should have to reply: to my father, my father, who knew
nothing at all, so to speak, but, with his wealth of anecdotes
picked up from newspapers and magazines, and covering every variety
of theme, gave me infinitely more help than all my _Gymnasium_ and
_Realschule_ teachers put together.

What information these men offered me, even if it was good, has been
for the most part forgotten; but the stories of Ney and Rapp have remained
fresh in my memory to the present hour.

My father's method, which, much as I feel indebted to it, was after
all somewhat peculiar and utterly devoid of logic and consistency, would
in all probability have led to violent quarrels between my parents, if
my critical mother, who saw only its weaknesses and none of its virtues,
had attached any special significance to it in general.

But that was not the case. She only felt that my father's way of teaching
was totally different from the usual way, in that it would not lead to
many practical results, i.e., would not give me much preparation for
an examination, and in this respect she was perfectly right. However,
as she herself attached so little value to knowledge in general, she
contented herself with smiling at the "Socratic method," as she saw
no reason for becoming seriously wrought up over it. According to her
honest conviction there were other things in life of far greater
importance than knowledge, to say nothing of erudition, and these other
things were: a good appearance and good manners. That her children should
all present a good appearance was with her an article of faith,
so to speak, and she considered it a natural consequence of their
good appearance that they either already had or would acquire good
manners.

So the only essential was to present a good appearance. Serious
studies seemed to her not a help, but, on the contrary, a hindrance to
happiness, that is to say, real happiness, which she looked upon as
inseparable from money and property. A hundred-thousand-dollar man
_was_ something, and she respected, even honored him, whereas chief
judges and councillors of the chancery commanded very little respect
from her, and would have commanded even less, if the State, which she did
respect, had not stood behind them.
She was incapable of bowing in good faith to any so-called spiritual
authority, not because she cherished too exalted an opinion of
herself--she was, on the contrary, entirely without vanity and
arrogance--but solely because, constituted as she was, she could
not recognize an authority of knowledge, much less of erudition,
in a practical field of life--and with her the non-practical fields
never entered into consideration.

I still remember the time, some twenty years after the events just
narrated, when my parents were thinking of separating and of eventually
being divorced. A separation actually came about, the divorce idea was
dropped. But the latter was for a time considered in all seriousness,
and a friend of our family, Pastor Schultz, the then preacher at Bethany,
who made a specialty of divorce questions--it was in the reign of Frederick
William IV., when such problems were treated with revived dogmatic
severity--Pastor Schultz, I say, opposed the plan, as soon as he
heard of it, with all his power and eloquence.

My mother had a great deal of admiration for him and knew, besides, the
respect he enjoyed of "those highest in authority," and "those highest
in authority" meant something to her; nevertheless his severe
presentation of the matter made not the slightest impression upon
her; in fact his argument was so fruitless that, as soon as he
finished, she said with a reposeful air of superiority: "My dear
Schultz, you understand this question thoroughly; but whether or
not I have a right to secure a divorce is a question which no human
being in the whole world can answer so well as I myself."

With that she closed the conversation.

She was similarly skeptical of every kind of authority, and had no
confidence whatever in the ability of the three university
faculties.
For example, since patriarchal conditions were her ideal, she questioned
whether mankind derived any material advantages from jurisprudence.
It settled everything, as she thought, by favoritism or personal
advantage, or at least in a mechanical way. Riches, property,
especially landed property, accompanied if possible by the airs of a
legation attaché--_that_ was something that unlocked the world and the
hearts of men, that was real power. Everything else was comedy, illusion,
a soap-bubble, that threatened to burst any moment.

And then nothing was left. One can readily understand why my mother,
with such views, insisted upon taking me out of the barefoot school,
and did not consider an interim, with no regular school instruction,
any special misfortune.

The evil in it was that it violated the rule. As for the rest, the
little bit of learning lost could be made up at any time.
And if not, then not....

It is a pretty saying that every child has its angel, and one does
not need to be very credulous to believe it. For the little tots this
angel is a fairy, enveloped in a long white lily veil, which stands
smiling at the foot of a cradle and either wards off danger or helps
out of it when it is really at hand.

That is the fairy for the little ones. But when one has outgrown the
cradle or crib, and has begun to sleep in a regular bed, in other
words, when one has become a robust boy, one still needs his angel
just the same, indeed the need is all the greater.

But instead of the lily angel it needs to be a sort of archangel,
a strong, manly angel, with shield and spear, otherwise his strength
will not suffice for his growing tasks.

As a matter of fact, I was not wild and venturesome, and all my
escapades that were attributed to me as of such a nature were always
undertaken after a wise estimate of my strength. Nevertheless I have,
with respect to that period, a feeling that I was constantly being
rescued, a feeling in which I can hardly be in error.

When I left home at the age of twelve, the age at which, as a usual
thing, real dangers begin, there was doubtless a sudden change in my
case, for it now seems to me as though my angel had had a vacation
from that time on.

All dangers ceased entirely or shrank into such insignificance that
they left no impression upon me. In view of the fact that the two periods
were so close together, there must have been this difference, otherwise
I should not have retained such entirely different feelings about them.

It was one of our chief sports to fire off so-called shooting-keys.
That the children of large cities know anything about shooting-keys
is hardly probable, hence I may be permitted to describe them here.

They were hollow keys with very thin walls, consequently of enormous bore,
so to speak, and were used to lock trunks, especially the trunks of servant
girls. It was our constant endeavor to gain possession of such keys and
at times our expeditions were nothing short of piracy.

Woe be unto the poor servant girl who forgot to take a key out of
its lock!

She never saw it again. We took possession of it, and the simple procedure
of filing out a touchhole produced a finished firearm.

As these keys were always rusty, and occasionally split, it not infrequently
happened that they burst; but we always escaped injury.

The angel helped.

Much more dangerous was the art of making fireworks, which I was always
practicing.

With the help of sulphur and saltpeter, which we kept in a convenient
place in the apothecary's shop, I had made of myself a full-fledged
pyrotechnician, in which process I was very materially aided by
my skill in the manipulation of cardboard and paste.

All sorts of shells were easily made, and so I produced Catherine-wheels,
revolving suns, and flower-pots. Often these creations refused to
perform the duty expected of them, and then we piled them up and, by
means of a sulphurated match, touched off the whole heap of miscarried
glory and waited to see what it would do.
This was all done with comparatively little danger. Fraught with all the
more danger for us was the thing which was considered the simplest
and lowest product of the art of pyrotechnics, and was so rated by
us, viz., the serpent.

Very often the serpents I made would not burn properly, because I had not
used the right mixture, no doubt, and that always vexed me greatly.
When a Catherine-wheel refused to turn, that could at least be tolerated,
for a Catherine-wheel is a comparatively difficult thing to make. A
serpent, on the other hand, could not well help burning, and when,
for all that, one simply would not burn, that was a humiliation
that could not be suffered. So I would bend over the shells as they stuck
in the pile of sand and begin to blow, in order to give new life to
the dying tinder fire. When it went out entirely, that was really
the best thing for me. But if it went off suddenly, my hair was
singed or my forehead burned. Nothing worse ever happened, for the angel
was protecting me with his shield.

That was the element of fire. But we also came in contact with water,
which was not to be wondered at in a seaport.

In the autumn of 1831 a Berlin relative made me a present of a cannon, not
just an ordinary child's plaything, such as can be bought of any
coppersmith or tinner, but a so-called pattern-cannon, such as is seen
only in arsenals,--a splendid specimen, of great beauty and elegance,
the carriage firm and neat, the barrel highly polished and about a foot
and a half long. I was more than delighted, and determined to
proceed at once to a bombardment of Swinemünde. Two boys of my age and
my younger brother climbed with me into a boat lying at Klempin's
Clapper, and we rowed down-stream, with the cannon in the bow. When
we were about opposite the Society House I considered that the
time had arrived for the beginning of the bombardment, and fired
three shots, waiting after each shot to see whether the people on
the "Bulwark" took notice of us, and whether they showed due respect
for the seriousness of our actions.

'Why, only just now I saw a sardine-opener on the kitchen dresser, quite
distinctly; and everybody knows that means there are sardines about
somewhere in the neighbourhood. Rouse yourself! pull yourself together,
and come with me and forage.'

They went and foraged accordingly, hunting through every cupboard and
turning out every drawer. The result was not so very depressing after
all, though of course it might have been better; a tin of sardines--a
box of captain's biscuits, nearly full--and a German sausage encased in
silver paper.

'There's a banquet for you!' observed the Rat, as he arranged the table.
'I know some animals who would give their ears to be sitting down to
supper with us to-night!'

'No bread!' groaned the Mole dolorously; 'no butter, no----'

'No pate de foie gras, no champagne!' continued the Rat, grinning. 'And
that reminds me--what's that little door at the end of the passage? Your
cellar, of course! Every luxury in this house! Just you wait a minute.'

He made for the cellar-door, and presently reappeared, somewhat
dusty, with a bottle of beer in each paw and another under each arm,
'Self-indulgent beggar you seem to be, Mole,' he observed. 'Deny
yourself nothing. This is really the jolliest little place I ever was
in. Now, wherever did you pick up those prints? Make the place look so
home-like, they do. No wonder you're so fond of it, Mole. Tell us all
about it, and how you came to make it what it is.'

Then, while the Rat busied himself fetching plates, and knives and
forks, and mustard which he mixed in an egg-cup, the Mole, his bosom
still heaving with the stress of his recent emotion, related--somewhat
shyly at first, but with more freedom as he warmed to his subject--how
this was planned, and how that was thought out, and how this was got
through a windfall from an aunt, and that was a wonderful find and a
bargain, and this other thing was bought out of laborious savings and a
certain amount of 'going without.' His spirits finally quite restored,
he must needs go and caress his possessions, and take a lamp and show
off their points to his visitor and expatiate on them, quite forgetful
of the supper they both so much needed; Rat, who was desperately hungry
but strove to conceal it, nodding seriously, examining with a puckered
brow, and saying, 'wonderful,' and 'most remarkable,' at intervals, when
the chance for an observation was given him.

At last the Rat succeeded in decoying him to the table, and had just got
seriously to work with the sardine-opener when sounds were heard from
the fore-court without--sounds like the scuffling of small feet in the
gravel and a confused murmur of tiny voices, while broken sentences
reached them--'Now, all in a line--hold the lantern up a bit,
Tommy--clear your throats first--no coughing after I say one, two,
three.--Where's young Bill?--Here, come on, do, we're all a-waiting----'

'What's up?' inquired the Rat, pausing in his labours.

'I think it must be the field-mice,' replied the Mole, with a touch of
pride in his manner. 'They go round carol-singing regularly at this time
of the year. They're quite an institution in these parts. And they never
pass me over--they come to Mole End last of all; and I used to give them
hot drinks, and supper too sometimes, when I could afford it. It will be
like old times to hear them again.'

'Let's have a look at them!' cried the Rat, jumping up and running to
the door.

It was a pretty sight, and a seasonable one, that met their eyes when
they flung the door open. In the fore-court, lit by the dim rays of a
horn lantern, some eight or ten little fieldmice stood in a semicircle,
red worsted comforters round their throats, their fore-paws thrust deep
into their pockets, their feet jigging for warmth. With bright beady
eyes they glanced shyly at each other, sniggering a little, sniffing and
applying coat-sleeves a good deal. As the door opened, one of the elder
ones that carried the lantern was just saying, 'Now then, one, two,
three!' and forthwith their shrill little voices uprose on the air,
singing one of the old-time carols that their forefathers composed in
fields that were fallow and held by frost, or when snow-bound in chimney
corners, and handed down to be sung in the miry street to lamp-lit
windows at Yule-time.


CAROL

Villagers all, this frosty tide, Let your doors swing open wide, Though
wind may follow, and snow beside, Yet draw us in by your fire to bide;
Joy shall be yours in the morning!

Here we stand in the cold and the sleet, Blowing fingers and stamping
feet, Come from far away you to greet--You by the fire and we in the
street--Bidding you joy in the morning!

For ere one half of the night was gone, Sudden a star has led us on,
Raining bliss and benison--Bliss to-morrow and more anon, Joy for every
morning!

Goodman Joseph toiled through the snow--Saw the star o'er a stable low;
Mary she might not further go--Welcome thatch, and litter below! Joy was
hers in the morning!

And then they heard the angels tell 'Who were the first to cry NOWELL?
Animals all, as it befell, In the stable where they did dwell! Joy shall
be theirs in the morning!'


The voices ceased, the singers, bashful but smiling, exchanged sidelong
glances, and silence succeeded--but for a moment only. Then, from up
above and far away, down the tunnel they had so lately travelled was
borne to their ears in a faint musical hum the sound of distant bells
ringing a joyful and clangorous peal.

'Very well sung, boys!' cried the Rat heartily. 'And now come along in,
all of you, and warm yourselves by the fire, and have something hot!'

'Yes, come along, field-mice,' cried the Mole eagerly. 'This is quite
like old times! Shut the door after you. Pull up that settle to the
fire. Now, you just wait a minute, while we--O, Ratty!' he cried in
despair, plumping down on a seat, with tears impending. 'Whatever are we
doing? We've nothing to give them!'

'You leave all that to me,' said the masterful Rat. 'Here, you with the
lantern! Come over this way. I want to talk to you. Now, tell me, are
there any shops open at this hour of the night?'

'Why, certainly, sir,' replied the field-mouse respectfully. 'At this
time of the year our shops keep open to all sorts of hours.'

'Then look here!' said the Rat. 'You go off at once, you and your
lantern, and you get me----'

Here much muttered conversation ensued, and the Mole only heard bits
of it, such as--'Fresh, mind!--no, a pound of that will do--see you get
Buggins's, for I won't have any other--no, only the best--if you can't
get it there, try somewhere else--yes, of course, home-made, no tinned
stuff--well then, do the best you can!' Finally, there was a chink of
coin passing from paw to paw, the field-mouse was provided with an ample
basket for his purchases, and off he hurried, he and his lantern.

The rest of the field-mice, perched in a row on the settle, their small
legs swinging, gave themselves up to enjoyment of the fire, and toasted
their chilblains till they tingled; while the Mole, failing to draw them
into easy conversation, plunged into family history and made each of
them recite the names of his numerous brothers, who were too young,
it appeared, to be allowed to go out a-carolling this year, but looked
forward very shortly to winning the parental consent.

The Rat, meanwhile, was busy examining the label on one of the
beer-bottles. 'I perceive this to be Old Burton,' he remarked
approvingly. 'SENSIBLE Mole! The very thing! Now we shall be able to
mull some ale! Get the things ready, Mole, while I draw the corks.'

It did not take long to prepare the brew and thrust the tin heater well
into the red heart of the fire; and soon every field-mouse was sipping
and coughing and choking (for a little mulled ale goes a long way) and
wiping his eyes and laughing and forgetting he had ever been cold in all
his life.

'They act plays too, these fellows,' the Mole explained to the Rat.
'Make them up all by themselves, and act them afterwards. And very
well they do it, too! They gave us a capital one last year, about a
field-mouse who was captured at sea by a Barbary corsair, and made to
row in a galley; and when he escaped and got home again, his lady-love
had gone into a convent. Here, YOU! You were in it, I remember. Get up
and recite a bit.'

The field-mouse addressed got up on his legs, giggled shyly, looked
round the room, and remained absolutely tongue-tied. His comrades
cheered him on, Mole coaxed and encouraged him, and the Rat went so
far as to take him by the shoulders and shake him; but nothing could
overcome his stage-fright. They were all busily engaged on him like
watermen applying the Royal Humane Society's regulations to a case
of long submersion, when the latch clicked, the door opened, and the
field-mouse with the lantern reappeared, staggering under the weight of
his basket.

There was no more talk of play-acting once the very real and solid
contents of the basket had been tumbled out on the table. Under the
generalship of Rat, everybody was set to do something or to fetch
something. In a very few minutes supper was ready, and Mole, as he took
the head of the table in a sort of a dream, saw a lately barren board
set thick with savoury comforts; saw his little friends' faces brighten
and beam as they fell to without delay; and then let himself loose--for
he was famished indeed--on the provender so magically provided, thinking
what a happy home-coming this had turned out, after all. As they ate,
they talked of old times, and the field-mice gave him the local gossip
up to date, and answered as well as they could the hundred questions he
had to ask them. The Rat said little or nothing, only taking care that
each guest had what he wanted, and plenty of it, and that Mole had no
trouble or anxiety about anything.

They clattered off at last, very grateful and showering wishes of the
season, with their jacket pockets stuffed with remembrances for the
small brothers and sisters at home. When the door had closed on the last
of them and the chink of the lanterns had died away, Mole and Rat kicked
the fire up, drew their chairs in, brewed themselves a last nightcap of
mulled ale, and discussed the events of the long day. At last the Rat,
with a tremendous yawn, said, 'Mole, old chap, I'm ready to drop. Sleepy
is simply not the word. That your own bunk over on that side? Very well,
then, I'll take this. What a ripping little house this is! Everything so
handy!'

He clambered into his bunk and rolled himself well up in the blankets,
and slumber gathered him forthwith, as a swathe of barley is folded into
the arms of the reaping machine.

The weary Mole also was glad to turn in without delay, and soon had his
head on his pillow, in great joy and contentment. But ere he closed his
eyes he let them wander round his old room, mellow in the glow of the
firelight that played or rested on familiar and friendly things which
had long been unconsciously a part of him, and now smilingly received
him back, without rancour. He was now in just the frame of mind that the
tactful Rat had quietly worked to bring about in him. He saw clearly how
plain and simple--how narrow, even--it all was; but clearly, too, how
much it all meant to him, and the special value of some such anchorage
in one's existence. He did not at all want to abandon the new life
and its splendid spaces, to turn his back on sun and air and all they
offered him and creep home and stay there; the upper world was all too
strong, it called to him still, even down there, and he knew he must
return to the larger stage. But it was good to think he had this to come
back to; this place which was all his own, these things which were so
glad to see him again and could always be counted upon for the same
simple welcome.


VI. MR. TOAD

It was a bright morning in the early part of summer; the river had
resumed its wonted banks and its accustomed pace, and a hot sun seemed
to be pulling everything green and bushy and spiky up out of the earth
towards him, as if by strings. The Mole and the Water Rat had been up
since dawn, very busy on matters connected with boats and the opening of
the boating season; painting and varnishing, mending paddles, repairing
cushions, hunting for missing boat-hooks, and so on; and were finishing
breakfast in their little parlour and eagerly discussing their plans for
the day, when a heavy knock sounded at the door.

'Bother!' said the Rat, all over egg. 'See who it is, Mole, like a good
chap, since you've finished.'

The Mole went to attend the summons, and the Rat heard him utter a cry
of surprise. Then he flung the parlour door open, and announced with
much importance, 'Mr. Badger!'

This was a wonderful thing, indeed, that the Badger should pay a formal
call on them, or indeed on anybody. He generally had to be caught, if
you wanted him badly, as he slipped quietly along a hedgerow of an early
morning or a late evening, or else hunted up in his own house in the
middle of the Wood, which was a serious undertaking.

The Badger strode heavily into the room, and stood looking at the
two animals with an expression full of seriousness. The Rat let his
egg-spoon fall on the table-cloth, and sat open-mouthed.

'The hour has come!' said the Badger at last with great solemnity.

'What hour?' asked the Rat uneasily, glancing at the clock on the
mantelpiece.

'WHOSE hour, you should rather say,' replied the Badger. 'Why, Toad's
hour! The hour of Toad! I said I would take him in hand as soon as the
winter was well over, and I'm going to take him in hand to-day!'

'Toad's hour, of course!' cried the Mole delightedly. 'Hooray! I
remember now! WE'LL teach him to be a sensible Toad!'

'This very morning,' continued the Badger, taking an arm-chair, 'as
I learnt last night from a trustworthy source, another new and
exceptionally powerful motor-car will arrive at Toad Hall on approval or
return. At this very moment, perhaps, Toad is busy arraying himself in
those singularly hideous habiliments so dear to him, which transform him
from a (comparatively) good-looking Toad into an Object which throws any
decent-minded animal that comes across it into a violent fit. We must
be up and doing, ere it is too late. You two animals will accompany me
instantly to Toad Hall, and the work of rescue shall be accomplished.'

'Right you are!' cried the Rat, starting up. 'We'll rescue the poor
unhappy animal! We'll convert him! He'll be the most converted Toad that
ever was before we've done with him!'

They set off up the road on their mission of mercy, Badger leading the
way. Animals when in company walk in a proper and sensible manner, in
single file, instead of sprawling all across the road and being of no
use or support to each other in case of sudden trouble or danger.

They reached the carriage-drive of Toad Hall to find, as the Badger had
anticipated, a shiny new motor-car, of great size, painted a bright
red (Toad's favourite colour), standing in front of the house. As they
neared the door it was flung open, and Mr. Toad, arrayed in goggles,
cap, gaiters, and enormous overcoat, came swaggering down the steps,
drawing on his gauntleted gloves.

'Hullo! come on, you fellows!' he cried cheerfully on catching sight of
them. 'You're just in time to come with me for a jolly--to come for a
jolly--for a--er--jolly----'

His hearty accents faltered and fell away as he noticed the stern
unbending look on the countenances of his silent friends, and his
invitation remained unfinished.

The Badger strode up the steps. 'Take him inside,' he said sternly to
his companions. Then, as Toad was hustled through the door, struggling
and protesting, he turned to the chauffeur in charge of the new
motor-car.

'I'm afraid you won't be wanted to-day,' he said. 'Mr. Toad has changed
his mind. He will not require the car. Please understand that this is
final. You needn't wait.' Then he followed the others inside and shut
the door.

'Now then!' he said to the Toad, when the four of them stood together in
the Hall, 'first of all, take those ridiculous things off!'

'Shan't!' replied Toad, with great spirit. 'What is the meaning of this
gross outrage? I demand an instant explanation.'

'Take them off him, then, you two,' ordered the Badger briefly.

They had to lay Toad out on the floor, kicking and calling all sorts of
names, before they could get to work properly. Then the Rat sat on him,
and the Mole got his motor-clothes off him bit by bit, and they stood
him up on his legs again. A good deal of his blustering spirit seemed
to have evaporated with the removal of his fine panoply. Now that he was
merely Toad, and no longer the Terror of the Highway, he giggled
feebly and looked from one to the other appealingly, seeming quite to
understand the situation.

'You knew it must come to this, sooner or later, Toad,' the Badger
explained severely.

You've disregarded all the warnings we've given you, you've gone on
squandering the money your father left you, and you're getting us
animals a bad name in the district by your furious driving and your
smashes and your rows with the police. Independence is all very well,
but we animals never allow our friends to make fools of themselves
beyond a certain limit; and that limit you've reached. Now, you're a
good fellow in many respects, and I don't want to be too hard on you.
I'll make one more effort to bring you to reason. She then had one of
her heart-to-heart talks with my father, who was probably told that
he had again taken only himself into consideration. That same day my
withdrawal from school was announced to Rector Beda, who lived
diagonally across the street from us.

He was not angry at the announcement, declared, on the contrary, to
my mother that "he had really been surprised. * * *" Thus far all
was well.

Just criticism had been exercised and action had been taken in accord with
it.

But now that it was necessary to find something better to substitute
for the school, even my mother was at her wits' end. Teachers seemed
to be, or were in fact, lacking, and as it had been impossible in
so short a time to establish relations to the good families of
the city, it was decided for the present to let me grow up wild
and calmly to wait till something turned up. But to prevent my lapsing
into dense ignorance I was to read an hour daily to my mother and
learn some Latin and French words from my father, in addition to
geography and history.

"Will you be equal to that, Louis?" my mother had asked.

"Equal to? What do you mean by 'equal to?' Of course I am equal to
it.
Your same old lack of confidence in me."

"Not twenty-four hours ago you yourself were full of doubt about it."
"I presume the plan did not appeal to me then. But if it must be, I
understand the Prussian pharmacopoeia as well as anybody, and in my
parents' house French was spoken. As for the rest, to speak of it would
be ridiculous.'That is very good news,' said the Mole gravely.

'Very good news indeed,' observed the Rat dubiously, 'if only--IF
only----'

He was looking very hard at Toad as he said this, and could not help
thinking he perceived something vaguely resembling a twinkle in that
animal's still sorrowful eye.

'There's only one thing more to be done,' continued the gratified
Badger. 'Toad, I want you solemnly to repeat, before your friends here,
what you fully admitted to me in the smoking-room just now. First, you
are sorry for what you've done, and you see the folly of it all?'

There was a long, long pause. Toad looked desperately this way and that,
while the other animals waited in grave silence. At last he spoke.

'No!' he said, a little sullenly, but stoutly; 'I'm NOT sorry. And it
wasn't folly at all! It was simply glorious!'

'What?' cried the Badger, greatly scandalised. 'You backsliding animal,
didn't you tell me just now, in there----'

'Oh, yes, yes, in THERE,' said Toad impatiently. 'I'd have said anything
in THERE. You're so eloquent, dear Badger, and so moving, and so
convincing, and put all your points so frightfully well--you can do what
you like with me in THERE, and you know it. But I've been searching my
mind since, and going over things in it, and I find that I'm not a bit
sorry or repentant really, so it's no earthly good saying I am; now, is
it?'

'Then you don't promise,' said the Badger, 'never to touch a motor-car
again?'

'Certainly not!' replied Toad emphatically. 'On the contrary, I
faithfully promise that the very first motor-car I see, poop-poop! off I
go in it!'

'Told you so, didn't I?' observed the Rat to the Mole.

'Very well, then,' said the Badger firmly, rising to his feet. 'Since
you won't yield to persuasion, we'll try what force can do. I feared it
would come to this all along. You've often asked us three to come and
stay with you, Toad, in this handsome house of yours; well, now we're
going to. When we've converted you to a proper point of view we may
quit, but not before. Take him upstairs, you two, and lock him up in his
bedroom, while we arrange matters between ourselves.'

'It's for your own good, Toady, you know,' said the Rat kindly, as Toad,
kicking and struggling, was hauled up the stairs by his two faithful
friends. 'Think what fun we shall all have together, just as we used to,
when you've quite got over this--this painful attack of yours!'

'We'll take great care of everything for you till you're well, Toad,'
said the Mole; 'and we'll see your money isn't wasted, as it has been.'

'No more of those regrettable incidents with the police, Toad,' said the
Rat, as they thrust him into his bedroom.

'And no more weeks in hospital, being ordered about by female nurses,
Toad,' added the Mole, turning the key on him.

They descended the stair, Toad shouting abuse at them through the
keyhole; and the three friends then met in conference on the situation.

'It's going to be a tedious business,' said the Badger, sighing. 'I've
never seen Toad so determined. However, we will see it out. He must
never be left an instant unguarded. We shall have to take it in turns to
be with him, till the poison has worked itself out of his system.'

They arranged watches accordingly. Each animal took it in turns to sleep
in Toad's room at night, and they divided the day up between them. At
first Toad was undoubtedly very trying to his careful guardians. When
his violent paroxysms possessed him he would arrange bedroom chairs
in rude resemblance of a motor-car and would crouch on the foremost of
them, bent forward and staring fixedly ahead, making uncouth and
ghastly noises, till the climax was reached, when, turning a complete
somersault, he would lie prostrate amidst the ruins of the chairs,
apparently completely satisfied for the moment. As time passed, however,
these painful seizures grew gradually less frequent, and his friends
strove to divert his mind into fresh channels. But his interest in
other matters did not seem to revive, and he grew apparently languid and
depressed.

One fine morning the Rat, whose turn it was to go on duty, went upstairs
to relieve Badger, whom he found fidgeting to be off and stretch his
legs in a long ramble round his wood and down his earths and burrows.
'Toad's still in bed,' he told the Rat, outside the door. 'Can't get
much out of him, except, "O leave him alone, he wants nothing, perhaps
he'll be better presently, it may pass off in time, don't be unduly
anxious," and so on. Now, you look out, Rat! When Toad's quiet and
submissive and playing at being the hero of a Sunday-school prize, then
he's at his artfullest. There's sure to be something up. I know him.
Well, now, I must be off.'

'How are you to-day, old chap?' inquired the Rat cheerfully, as he
approached Toad's bedside.

He had to wait some minutes for an answer. At last a feeble voice
replied, 'Thank you so much, dear Ratty! So good of you to inquire! But
first tell me how you are yourself, and the excellent Mole?'

'O, WE'RE all right,' replied the Rat. 'Mole,' he added incautiously,
'is going out for a run round with Badger. They'll be out till luncheon
time, so you and I will spend a pleasant morning together, and I'll do
my best to amuse you. Now jump up, there's a good fellow, and don't lie
moping there on a fine morning like this!'

'Dear, kind Rat,' murmured Toad, 'how little you realise my condition,
and how very far I am from "jumping up" now--if ever! But do not trouble
about me. I hate being a burden to my friends, and I do not expect to be
one much longer. Indeed, I almost hope not.'

'Well, I hope not, too,' said the Rat heartily. 'You've been a fine
bother to us all this time, and I'm glad to hear it's going to stop. And
in weather like this, and the boating season just beginning! It's too
bad of you, Toad! It isn't the trouble we mind, but you're making us
miss such an awful lot.'

'I'm afraid it IS the trouble you mind, though,' replied the Toad
languidly. 'I can quite understand it. It's natural enough. You're tired
of bothering about me. I mustn't ask you to do anything further. I'm a
nuisance, I know.'

'You are, indeed,' said the Rat. 'But I tell you, I'd take any trouble
on earth for you, if only you'd be a sensible animal.'

'If I thought that, Ratty,' murmured Toad, more feebly than ever, 'then
I would beg you--for the last time, probably--to step round to the
village as quickly as possible--even now it may be too late--and fetch
the doctor. But don't you bother. It's only a trouble, and perhaps we
may as well let things take their course.'

'Why, what do you want a doctor for?' inquired the Rat, coming closer
and examining him. He certainly lay very still and flat, and his voice
was weaker and his manner much changed.

'Surely you have noticed of late----' murmured Toad. 'But, no--why
should you? Noticing things is only a trouble. To-morrow, indeed, you
may be saying to yourself, "O, if only I had noticed sooner! If only I
had done something!" But no; it's a trouble. Never mind--forget that I
asked.'

'Look here, old man,' said the Rat, beginning to get rather alarmed, 'of
course I'll fetch a doctor to you, if you really think you want him. But
you can hardly be bad enough for that yet. Let's talk about something
else.'

'I fear, dear friend,' said Toad, with a sad smile, 'that "talk" can do
little in a case like this--or doctors either, for that matter; still,
one must grasp at the slightest straw. And, by the way--while you
are about it--I HATE to give you additional trouble, but I happen to
remember that you will pass the door--would you mind at the same time
asking the lawyer to step up? It would be a convenience to me, and there
are moments--perhaps I should say there is A moment--when one must face
disagreeable tasks, at whatever cost to exhausted nature!'

'A lawyer! O, he must be really bad!' the affrighted Rat said to
himself, as he hurried from the room, not forgetting, however, to lock
the door carefully behind him.

Outside, he stopped to consider. The other two were far away, and he had
no one to consult.

'It's best to be on the safe side,' he said, on reflection. 'I've known
Toad fancy himself frightfully bad before, without the slightest reason;
but I've never heard him ask for a lawyer! If there's nothing really the
matter, the doctor will tell him he's an old ass, and cheer him up; and
that will be something gained. I'd better humour him and go; it won't
take very long.' So he ran off to the village on his errand of mercy.

The Toad, who had hopped lightly out of bed as soon as he heard the
key turned in the lock, watched him eagerly from the window till he
disappeared down the carriage-drive. Then, laughing heartily, he dressed
as quickly as possible in the smartest suit he could lay hands on at the
moment, filled his pockets with cash which he took from a small drawer
in the dressing-table, and next, knotting the sheets from his bed
together and tying one end of the improvised rope round the central
mullion of the handsome Tudor window which formed such a feature of his
bedroom, he scrambled out, slid lightly to the ground, and, taking the
opposite direction to the Rat, marched off lightheartedly, whistling a
merry tune.

It was a gloomy luncheon for Rat when the Badger and the Mole at
length returned, and he had to face them at table with his pitiful and
unconvincing story. The Badger's caustic, not to say brutal, remarks may
be imagined, and therefore passed over; but it was painful to the Rat
that even the Mole, though he took his friend's side as far as possible,
could not help saying, 'You've been a bit of a duffer this time, Ratty!
Toad, too, of all animals!'

'He did it awfully well,' said the crestfallen Rat.

'He did YOU awfully well!' rejoined the Badger hotly. 'However, talking
won't mend matters. He's got clear away for the time, that's certain;
and the worst of it is, he'll be so conceited with what he'll think is
his cleverness that he may commit any folly. One comfort is, we're free
now, and needn't waste any more of our precious time doing sentry-go.
But we'd better continue to sleep at Toad Hall for a while longer.
Toad may be brought back at any moment--on a stretcher, or between two
policemen.'

So spoke the Badger, not knowing what the future held in store, or how
much water, and of how turbid a character, was to run under bridges
before Toad should sit at ease again in his ancestral Hall.


Meanwhile, Toad, gay and irresponsible, was walking briskly along the
high road, some miles from home. At first he had taken by-paths, and
crossed many fields, and changed his course several times, in case of
pursuit; but now, feeling by this time safe from recapture, and the sun
smiling brightly on him, and all Nature joining in a chorus of approval
to the song of self-praise that his own heart was singing to him, he
almost danced along the road in his satisfaction and conceit.

'Smart piece of work that!' he remarked to himself chuckling. 'Brain
against brute force--and brain came out on the top--as it's bound to
do. Poor old Ratty! My! won't he catch it when the Badger gets back!
A worthy fellow, Ratty, with many good qualities, but very little
intelligence and absolutely no education. I must take him in hand some
day, and see if I can make something of him.'

Filled full of conceited thoughts such as these he strode along, his
head in the air, till he reached a little town, where the sign of
'The Red Lion,' swinging across the road halfway down the main street,
reminded him that he had not breakfasted that day, and that he was
exceedingly hungry after his long walk. He marched into the Inn, ordered
the best luncheon that could be provided at so short a notice, and sat
down to eat it in the coffee-room.

He was about half-way through his meal when an only too familiar sound,
approaching down the street, made him start and fall a-trembling all
over. The poop-poop! drew nearer and nearer, the car could be heard to
turn into the inn-yard and come to a stop, and Toad had to hold on to
the leg of the table to conceal his over-mastering emotion. Presently
the party entered the coffee-room, hungry, talkative, and gay, voluble
on their experiences of the morning and the merits of the chariot that
had brought them along so well. Toad listened eagerly, all ears, for a
time; at last he could stand it no longer. He slipped out of the
room quietly, paid his bill at the bar, and as soon as he got outside
sauntered round quietly to the inn-yard. 'There cannot be any harm,' he
said to himself, 'in my only just LOOKING at it!'

The car stood in the middle of the yard, quite unattended, the
stable-helps and other hangers-on being all at their dinner. Toad walked
slowly round it, inspecting, criticising, musing deeply.

'I wonder,' he said to himself presently, 'I wonder if this sort of car
STARTS easily?'

Next moment, hardly knowing how it came about, he found he had hold of
the handle and was turning it. As the familiar sound broke forth, the
old passion seized on Toad and completely mastered him, body and soul.
As if in a dream he found himself, somehow, seated in the driver's seat;
as if in a dream, he pulled the lever and swung the car round the yard
and out through the archway; and, as if in a dream, all sense of
right and wrong, all fear of obvious consequences, seemed temporarily
suspended. He increased his pace, and as the car devoured the street
and leapt forth on the high road through the open country, he was only
conscious that he was Toad once more, Toad at his best and highest, Toad
the terror, the traffic-queller, the Lord of the lone trail, before whom
all must give way or be smitten into nothingness and everlasting night.
He chanted as he flew, and the car responded with sonorous drone; the
miles were eaten up under him as he sped he knew not whither, fulfilling
his instincts, living his hour, reckless of what might come to him.


* * * * * *

'To my mind,' observed the Chairman of the Bench of Magistrates
cheerfully, 'the ONLY difficulty that presents itself in this otherwise
very clear case is, how we can possibly make it sufficiently hot for the
incorrigible rogue and hardened ruffian whom we see cowering in the
dock before us. Let me see: he has been found guilty, on the clearest
evidence, first, of stealing a valuable motor-car; secondly, of driving
to the public danger; and, thirdly, of gross impertinence to the rural
police. Mr. Clerk, will you tell us, please, what is the very stiffest
penalty we can impose for each of these offences? Without, of course,
giving the prisoner the benefit of any doubt, because there isn't any.'

The Clerk scratched his nose with his pen. 'Some people would consider,'
he observed, 'that stealing the motor-car was the worst offence; and so
it is. But cheeking the police undoubtedly carries the severest penalty;
and so it ought. Supposing you were to say twelve months for the
theft, which is mild; and three years for the furious driving, which is
lenient; and fifteen years for the cheek, which was pretty bad sort of
cheek, judging by what we've heard from the witness-box, even if you
only believe one-tenth part of what you heard, and I never believe more
myself--those figures, if added together correctly, tot up to nineteen
years----'

'First-rate!' said the Chairman.

'--So you had better make it a round twenty years and be on the safe
side,' concluded the Clerk.

'An excellent suggestion!' said the Chairman approvingly. 'Prisoner!
Pull yourself together and try and stand up straight. It's going to be
twenty years for you this time. And mind, if you appear before us
again, upon any charge whatever, we shall have to deal with you very
seriously!'

Then the brutal minions of the law fell upon the hapless Toad; loaded
him with chains, and dragged him from the Court House, shrieking,
praying, protesting; across the marketplace, where the playful populace,
always as severe upon detected crime as they are sympathetic and helpful
when one is merely 'wanted,' assailed him with jeers, carrots, and
popular catch-words; past hooting school children, their innocent faces
lit up with the pleasure they ever derive from the sight of a gentleman
in difficulties; across the hollow-sounding drawbridge, below the spiky
portcullis, under the frowning archway of the grim old castle, whose
ancient towers soared high overhead; past guardrooms full of grinning
soldiery off duty, past sentries who coughed in a horrid, sarcastic
way, because that is as much as a sentry on his post dare do to show
his contempt and abhorrence of crime; up time-worn winding stairs, past
men-at-arms in casquet and corselet of steel, darting threatening looks
through their vizards; across courtyards, where mastiffs strained at
their leash and pawed the air to get at him; past ancient warders, their
halberds leant against the wall, dozing over a pasty and a flagon of
brown ale; on and on, past the rack-chamber and the thumbscrew-room,
past the turning that led to the private scaffold, till they reached
the door of the grimmest dungeon that lay in the heart of the innermost
keep. There at last they paused, where an ancient gaoler sat fingering a
bunch of mighty keys.

'Oddsbodikins!' said the sergeant of police, taking off his helmet and
wiping his forehead. 'Rouse thee, old loon, and take over from us this
vile Toad, a criminal of deepest guilt and matchless artfulness and
resource. Watch and ward him with all thy skill; and mark thee well,
greybeard, should aught untoward befall, thy old head shall answer for
his--and a murrain on both of them!'

The gaoler nodded grimly, laying his withered hand on the shoulder of
the miserable Toad. The rusty key creaked in the lock, the great door
clanged behind them; and Toad was a helpless prisoner in the remotest
dungeon of the best-guarded keep of the stoutest castle in all the
length and breadth of Merry England.


VII. THE PIPER AT THE GATES OF DAWN

The Willow-Wren was twittering his thin little song, hidden himself in
the dark selvedge of the river bank. Though it was past ten o'clock
at night, the sky still clung to and retained some lingering skirts
of light from the departed day; and the sullen heats of the torrid
afternoon broke up and rolled away at the dispersing touch of the cool
fingers of the short midsummer night. Mole lay stretched on the bank,
still panting from the stress of the fierce day that had been cloudless
from dawn to late sunset, and waited for his friend to return. Other
discrepancies strike us in his book and character. The train of suspicion
once lighted, the flame runs rapidly along. Our misgivings begin with
the title-page. "Lovel or Belville," says the Laird of Monkbarns, "are
just the names which youngsters are apt to assume on such occasions."
And Herman Melville sounds to us vastly like the harmonious and carefully
selected appellation of an imaginary hero of romance.

Separately the names are not uncommon; we can urge no valid reason
against their junction, and yet in this instance they fall suspiciously
on our ear. We are similarly impressed by the dedication.

Of the existence of Uncle Gansevoort, of Gansevoort, Saratoga County,
we are wholly incredulous.

We shall commission our New York correspondents to inquire as to the
reality of Mr Melville's avuncular relative, and, until certified of his
corporality, shall set down the gentleman with the Dutch patronymic
as a member of an imaginary clan.

Although glad to escape from Nukuheva, where he had been held in a sort
of honourable captivity, Typee--the _alias_ bestowed upon the rover
by his new shipmates, after the valley whence they rescued him--was
but indifferently pleased with the vessel on which he left it, and
whose articles he signed as a seaman for one cruise.

The Julia was of a beautiful model, and on or before a wind she sailed
like a witch; but that was all that could be said in her praise. She
was rotten to the core, incommodious, and ill-provided, badly
manned, and worse commanded.
American-built, she dated from the Short war, had served as a privateer,
been taken by the British, passed through many vicissitudes, and was
in no condition for a long cruise in the Pacific.

So mouldering was her fabric, that the reckless sailors, when seated in
the forecastle, dug their knives into the dank boards between them and
eternity as easily as into the moist sides of some old pollard oak.
She was much dilapidated and rapidly becoming more so; for Black
Baltimore, the ship's cook, when in want of firewood, did not scruple
to hack splinters from the bits and beams. Lugubrious indeed was
the aspect of the forecastle. Landsmen, whose ideas of a sailor's
sleeping-place are taken from the snow-white hammocks and exquisitely
clean berth-deck of a man of war, or from the rough, but substantial
comfort of a well-appointed merchantman, can form no conception of the
surpassing and countless abominations of a South-Sea whaler. The "Little
Jule," as her crew affectionately styled her, was a craft of two hundred
tons or thereabouts; she had sailed with thirty-two hands, whom desertion
had reduced to twenty, but these were too many for the cramped and
putrid nook in which they slept, ate, and smoked, and alternately
desponded or were jovial, as sickness and discomfort, or a Saturday
night's bottle and hopes of better luck, got the upper hand.

Want of room, however, was one of the least grievances of which the
Julia's crew complained.

It was a mere trifle, not worth the naming. They could have
submitted to close stowage had the dunnage been decent. But instead of
swinging in cosy hammocks, they slept in _bunks_ or wretched pigeon-holes,
on fragments of sails, unclean rags, blanket-shreds, and the like. Such
unenviable accommodations ought hardly to have been disputed with
their luckless possessors, who nevertheless were not allowed to occupy
in peace their broken-down bunks and scanty bedding. Two races of creatures,
time out of mind the curse of old ships in warm latitudes, infested
the Julia's forecastle, resisting all efforts to dislodge or exterminate
them, sometimes even getting the upper hand, dispossessing the
tortured mariners, and driving them on deck in terror and despair.

The sick only, hapless martyrs unable to leave their cribs, lay
passive, if not resigned, and were trampled under foot by their ferocious
and unfragrant foes.

These were rats and cockroaches. Typee--we use the name he bore during his
Julian tribulations--records a singular phenomenon in the nocturnal
habits of the last-named vermin.

"Every night they had a jubilee. The first symptom was an unusual
clustering and humming amongst the swarms lining the beams overhead,
and the inside of the sleeping-places. This was succeeded by a prodigious
coming and going on the part of those living out of sight. Presently
they all came forth; the larger sort racing over the chests and
planks; winged monsters darting to and fro in the air; and the small
fry buzzing in heaps almost in a state of fusion.

On the first alarm, all who were able darted on deck; while some of the
sick, who were too feeble, lay perfectly quiet, the distracted vermin
running over them at pleasure. The performance lasted some ten
minutes."

Persons there are, weak enough to view with loathing and aversion
certain sable insects that stray at night in kitchen or in pantry, and
barbarous enough to circumvent and destroy the odoriferous coleopteræ
by artful devices of glass traps and scarlet wafers. Such persons
will probably form their ideas of Typee's cockroaches from their own
domestic opportunities of observation. That were unjust to the crew
of the Julia, and would give no adequate idea of their sufferings.
As a purring tabby to a roaring jaguar, so is a British black-beetle
to a cock-roach of the Southern Seas. We back our assertion by a
quotation from our lamented friend Captain Cringle, who in his especially
graphic and attractive style thus hits off the peculiarities of this
graceful insect. "When full grown," saith Thomas, "it is a large dingy
brown-coloured beetle, about two inches long, with six legs, and
two feelers as long as its body.

It has a strong anti-hysterical flavour, something between rotten
cheese and asafoetida, and seldom stirs abroad when the sun is up,
but lies concealed in the most obscure and obscene crevices it can creep
into; so that, when it is seen, its wings and body are thickly
covered with dust and dirt of various shades, which any culprit who
chances to fall asleep with his mouth open, is sure to reap the benefit
of, as it has a great propensity to walk into it, partly for the sake
of the crumbs adhering to the masticators, and also, apparently, with a
scientific desire to inspect, by accurate admeasurement with the aforesaid
antennæ, the state and condition of the whole potato-trap." A description
worthy of Buffon. Such were the delicate monsters, the savoury sexipedes,
with whom Typee and his comrades had to wage incessant war.

They were worse even than the rats, which were certainly bad enough.
"Tame as Trenck's mouse, they stood in their holes, peering at you
like old grandfathers in a doorway;" watching for their prey, and
disputing with the sailors the weevil-biscuit, rancid pork, and horse-beef,
composing the Julia's stores; or smothering themselves, the luscious
vermin, in molasses, which thereby acquired a rich wood-cock flavour,
whose cause became manifest when the treacle-jar ran low, greatly to
the disgust and consternation of the biped consumers.

There were no delicate feeders on board, but this saccharine essence
of rat was too much even for the unscrupulous stomachs of South-Sea
whalers. A queer set they were on board that Sydney barque. Paper Jack,
the captain, was a feeble Cockney, of meek spirit and puny frame, who
glided about the vessel in a nankeen jacket and canvass pumps, a
laughing-stock to his crew. The real command devolved upon the chief mate,
John Jermin--a good sailor and brave fellow, but violent, and given to
drink.

The junior mate had deserted; of the four harpooners only one was
left, a fierce barbarian of a New Zealander--an excellent mariner,
whose stock of English was limited to nautical phrases and a frightful
power of oath, but who, in spite of his cannibal origin, ranked as a
sort of officer, in virtue of his harpoon, and took command of the
ship when mate and captain were absent. What a capital story, by
the bye, Typee tells us of one of this Bembo's whaling exploits!

New Zealanders are brave and bloodthirsty, and excellent harpooners, and
they act up to the South-Seaman's war-cry, "A dead whale or a stove
boat!" There is a world of wild romance and thrilling adventure in the
occasional glimpses of the whale fishery afforded us in Omoo; a strange
picturesqueness and piratical mystery about the lawless class of
seamen engaged in it.

Such a portrait gallery as Typee makes out of the Julia's crew, beginning
with Chips and Bungs, the carpenter and cooper, the "Cods," or
leaders of the forecastle, and descending until he arrives at poor
Rope Yarn, or Ropey, as he was called, a stunted journeyman baker
from Holborn, the most helpless and forlorn of all land-lubbers,
the butt and drudge of the ship's company!

A Dane, a Portuguese, a Finlander, a savage from Hivarhoo, sundry
English, Irish, and Americans, a daring Yankee _beach-comber_, called
Salem, and Sydney Ben, a runaway ticket-of-leave-man, made up a crew
much too weak to do any good in the whaling way.

But the best fellow on board, and by far the most remarkable, was a
disciple of Esculapius, known as Doctor Long-Ghost.
Jermin is a good portrait; so is Captain Guy; but Long-Ghost is a jewel
of a boy, a complete original, hit off with uncommon felicity. Nothing
is told us of his early life. Typee takes him up on board the Julia,
shakes hands with him in the last page of the book, and informs
us that he has never since seen or heard of him.

So we become acquainted with but a small section of the doctor's life; his
subsequent adventures are unknown, and, save a chance hint or two,
his previous career is a mystery, unfathomable as the Tahitian
coast, where, within a biscuit's toss of the coral shore, soundings
there are none.

Now and then he would obscurely refer to days more palmy and prosperous
than those spent on board the Julia. But however great the contrast
between his former fortunes and his then lowly position, he exhibited
much calm philosophy and cheerful resignation. He was even merry and
facetious, a practical wag of the very first order, and as such a
great favourite with the whole ship's company, the captain excepted. He
had arrived at Sydney in an emigrant ship, had expended his resources,
and entered as doctor on board the Julia. All British whalers are
bound to carry a medico, who is treated as a gentleman, so long as he
behaves as such, and has nothing to do but to drug the men and
play drafts with the captain.

At first Long-Ghost and Captain Guy hit it off very well; until, in an
unlucky hour, a dispute about politics destroyed their harmonious
association.
The captain got a thrashing; the mutinous doctor was put in confinement
and on bread and water, ran away from the ship, was pursued, captured,
and again imprisoned. Released at last, he resigned his office,
refused to do duty, and went forward amongst the men.

This was more magnanimous than wise. Long-Ghost was a sort of medical
Tom Coffin, a raw-boned giant, upwards of two yards high, one of
those men to whom the between-decks of a small craft is a residence
little less afflicting than one of Cardinal Balue's iron cages. And to
one who "had certainly, at some time or other, spent money, drunk
Burgundy, and associated with gentlemen," the Julia's forecastle must
have contained a host of disagreeables, irrespective of rats and
cockroaches, of its low roof, evil odours, damp timbers, and dungeon-like
aspect.

The captain's table, if less luxurious than that of a royal yacht or New
York liner, surely offered something better than the biscuits, hard as
gun-flints and thoroughly honeycombed, and the shot-soup, "great
round peas polishing themselves like pebbles by rolling about in tepid
water," on which the restive man of medicine was fain to exercise
his grinders during his abode forward. As regarded society, he
lost little by relinquishing that of Guy the Cockney, since he
obtained in exchange the intimacy of Melville the Yankee, who, to
judge from his book, must be exceeding good company, and to whom
he was a great resource.

The doctor was a man of learning and accomplishments, who had made the
most of his time whilst the sun shone on his side the hedge, and had
rolled his ungainly carcass over half the world.

"He quoted Virgil, and talked of Hobbes of Malmsbury, besides repeating
poetry by the canto, especially Hudibras.
In the easiest way imaginable, he could refer to an amour he had in
Palermo, his lion-hunting before breakfast among the Caffres, and the
quality of the coffee to be drunk in Muscat." Strangely must such
reminiscences have sounded in a whaler's forecastle, with Dunks the
Dane, Finland Van, and Wymontoo the Savage, for auditors.

The Julia had hitherto had little luck in her cruise, and could
scarcely hope for better in the state in which Typee found her.

Besides the losses by desertion, her crew was weakened by disease.
Several of the men lay sick in their berths, wholly unfit for
duty. The captain himself was ill, and all would have derived benefit
from a short sojourn in port; but this could not be thought of. The
discipline of the ship was bad, and the sailors, desperate and unruly
fellows, discontented, as well they might be, with their wretched
provisions and uncomfortable state, were not to be trusted on or near
shore. Three-fourths of them, had they once set foot on dry land,
would have absconded, taken refuge in the woods or amongst the
savages, and have submitted to any amount of tattoo, paint, and
nose-ringing, rather than return to the ship.
Already, at St Christina, one of the Marquesas, a large party had made
their escape in two of the four whale-boats, scuttling the third, and
cutting the tackles of the fourth nearly through, so that when Bembo
jumped in to clear it away, man and boat went souse into the water.
By the assistance of a French corvette, and by bribing the king of the
country with a musket and ammunition, the fugitives were captured.
But it was more than probable that they and others would renew the
attempt should opportunity offer; so there was no alternative but to
keep the sea, and hope for better days and for the convalescence
of the invalids.

Two of these died.

Neither Bible nor Prayer-book were on board the godless craft, and
like dogs, without form of Christian burial, the dead were launched
into the deep.

The situation of the survivors inspired with considerable uneasiness the
few amongst them capable of reflection.

The captain was ignorant of navigation; it was the mate who, from the
commencement of the voyage, had kept the ship's reckoning, and kept it
all to himself. He had only to get washed overboard in a gale, or to
walk over in a drunken fit, to leave his shipmates in a fix of the most
unpleasant description, ignorant of latitude, longitude, and of
everything else necessary to be known to guide the vessel on her
course.

And as to the sperm whales, which Jermin had promised them in such abundance
that they would only have to strike and take, not a single fin showed
itself. At last the captain was reported dying, and the mate took counsel
with Long-Ghost, Typee, and others of the crew. He would gladly have
continued the cruise, but his wish was overruled, and the whaler's
stern was turned towards the Society Islands.

The first glimpse of the peaks of Tahiti was hailed with transport by
the Julia's weary mariners. They had got a notion that if the captain
left the ship, their articles were no longer binding, and they should
be free to follow his example.

And, at any rate, the sickness on board and the shaky condition of the
barque, guaranteed them, as they thought, long and blissful leisure
amongst the waving palm-groves and soft-eyed Neuhas of Polynesia.

Their arrival in sight of Papeetee, the Tahitian capital, was welcomed
by the boom of cannon. The frigate Reine Blanche, at whose fore flew the
flag of Admiral Du Petit Thouars, thus celebrated the compulsory treaty,
concluded that morning, by which the island was ceded to the
French.

Captain Guy and his baggage were now set on shore, and it was soon apparent
to his men that whilst he nursed himself in the pure climate and pleasant
shades of Tahiti, they were to put to sea under the mate's orders, and
after a certain time to touch again at the island, and take off their
commander. The vessel was not even allowed to go into port, although
needing repairs, and in fact unseaworthy; and as to healing the
sick, selfish Paper Jack thought only of solacing his own
infirmities.

The fury of the ill-fed, reckless, discontented crew, on discovering the
project of their superiors, passed all bounds. Chips and Bungs volunteered
to head a mutiny, and a round-robin was drawn up and signed.
But when Wilson, an old acquaintance of Guy's, and acting consul
in the absence of missionary Pritchard, came on board, the gallant
cooper, who derived much of his courage from the grog-kid, was cowed
and craven. The grievances brought forward, amongst others that of the
_salt-horse_, (a horse's hoof with the shoe on, so swore the cook, had
been found in the pickle,) were treated as trifles and pooh-poohed
by the functionary, "a minute gentleman with a viciously pugged
nose, and a decidedly thin pair of legs."

But if Bungs allowed himself to be brow-beaten, so did not his comrades.
Yankee Salem flourished a bowie-knife, and such alarming demonstrations
were made, that the _counsellor_, as the sailors persisted in calling
the consul, thought it wise to beat a retreat.

Jermin now tried his hand, holding out brilliant prospects of
a rich cargo of sperm oil, and a pocket-full of dollars for every
man on his return to Sydney.

The mutineers were proof alike against menace and blandishment, and,
at the secret instigation of Long Ghost and Typee, resolutely
refused to do duty.

The consul, who had promised to return, did not show; and at last the mate,
having now but a few invalids and landsmen to work the ship and keep
her off shore, was compelled to enter the harbour. The Julia came
to an anchor within cable's length of the French frigate, on board which
consul Wilson repaired to obtain assistance. The Reine Blanche was to
sail in a few days for Valparaiso, and the mutineers expected
to go with her and be delivered up to a British man-of-war. Undismayed
by this prospect, they continued stanch in their contumacy, and
presently an armed cutter, "painted a 'pirate black,' its crew a
dark, grim-looking set, and the officers uncommonly fierce-looking
little Frenchmen," conveyed them on board the frigate, where they
were duly handcuffed, and secured by the ankle to a great iron bar
bolted down to the berth-deck.

Touching the proceedings on board the French man-of-war, its imperfect
discipline, and the strange, un-nautical way of carrying on the duty,
Typee is jocular and satirical. American though he be--and, but for
occasional slight yankeeisms in his style, we might have doubted even
that fact--he has evidently much more sympathy with his cousin John
Bull than with his country's old allies, the French, whom he freely admits
to be a clever and gallant nation, whilst he broadly hints that their
valour is not likely to be displayed to advantage on the water. He finds
too much of the military style about their marine institutions. Sailors
should be fighting men, but not soldiers or musket-carriers, as they all
are in turn in the French navy. He laughs at or objects to every thing;
the mustaches of the officers, the system of punishment, the sour wine
that replaces rum and water, the soup instead of junk, the pitiful
little rolls baked on board, and distributed in lieu of hard
biscuit.

And whilst praising the build of their ships--the only thing about them
he does praise--he ejaculates a hope, which sounds like a doubt, that
they will not some day fall into the hands of the people across the
Channel. "In case of war," he says, "what a fluttering of French
ensigns there would be! for the Frenchman makes but an indifferent
seaman, and though for the most part he fights well enough, somehow
or other, he seldom fights well enough to beat:"--at sea, be it
understood.

We are rather at a loss to comprehend the familiarity shown by Typee with
the internal arrangements and architecture of the Reine Blanche. His
time on board was passed in fetters; at nightfall on the fifth day
he left the ship. How, we are curious to know, did he become acquainted
with the minute details of "the crack craft in the French navy,"
with the disposition of her guns and decks, the complicated machinery
by which certain exceedingly simple things were done, and even with
the rich hangings, mirrors, and mahogany of the commodore's cabin?

Surely the ragged and disreputable mutineer of the Julia, whose
foot had scarcely touched the gangway, when he was hurried into
confinement below, could have had scanty opportunity for such
observations: unless, indeed, Herman Melville, or Typee, or the
Rover, or by whatever other _alias_ he be known, instead of creeping
in at the hawse-holes, was welcomed on the quarter-deck and admitted
to the gun-room, or to the commodore's cabin, an honoured guest in
broad-cloth, not a despised merchant seaman in canvass frock and
hat of tarpaulin.

We shall not dwell on these small inconsistencies and oversights
in an amusing book. We prefer accompanying the Julia's crew to Tahiti,
where they were put on shore contrary to their expectations, and not
altogether to their satisfaction, since they had anticipated a rapid
run to Valparaiso, the fag-end of a cruise in an English man-of-war,
and a speedy discharge at Portsmouth.

O unhappy and forsaken Toad!' With lamentations such as
these he passed his days and nights for several weeks, refusing his
meals or intermediate light refreshments, though the grim and ancient
gaoler, knowing that Toad's pockets were well lined, frequently pointed
out that many comforts, and indeed luxuries, could by arrangement be
sent in--at a price--from outside.

Now the gaoler had a daughter, a pleasant wench and good-hearted,
who assisted her father in the lighter duties of his post. She was
particularly fond of animals, and, besides her canary, whose cage hung
on a nail in the massive wall of the keep by day, to the great annoyance
of prisoners who relished an after-dinner nap, and was shrouded in an
antimacassar on the parlour table at night, she kept several piebald
mice and a restless revolving squirrel. This kind-hearted girl, pitying
the misery of Toad, said to her father one day, 'Father! I can't bear to
see that poor beast so unhappy, and getting so thin! You let me have the
managing of him. You know how fond of animals I am. I'll make him eat
from my hand, and sit up, and do all sorts of things.'

Her father replied that she could do what she liked with him. He was
tired of Toad, and his sulks and his airs and his meanness. So that day
she went on her errand of mercy, and knocked at the door of Toad's cell.

'Now, cheer up, Toad,' she said, coaxingly, on entering, 'and sit up
and dry your eyes and be a sensible animal. And do try and eat a bit of
dinner. See, I've brought you some of mine, hot from the oven!'

It was bubble-and-squeak, between two plates, and its fragrance filled
the narrow cell. The penetrating smell of cabbage reached the nose of
Toad as he lay prostrate in his misery on the floor, and gave him the
idea for a moment that perhaps life was not such a blank and desperate
thing as he had imagined. But still he wailed, and kicked with his legs,
and refused to be comforted. So the wise girl retired for the time, but,
of course, a good deal of the smell of hot cabbage remained behind,
as it will do, and Toad, between his sobs, sniffed and reflected, and
gradually began to think new and inspiring thoughts: of chivalry,
and poetry, and deeds still to be done; of broad meadows, and cattle
browsing in them, raked by sun and wind; of kitchen-gardens, and
straight herb-borders, and warm snap-dragon beset by bees; and of the
comforting clink of dishes set down on the table at Toad Hall, and the
scrape of chair-legs on the floor as every one pulled himself close up
to his work. The air of the narrow cell took a rosy tinge; he began to
think of his friends, and how they would surely be able to do something;
of lawyers, and how they would have enjoyed his case, and what an ass
he had been not to get in a few; and lastly, he thought of his own great
cleverness and resource, and all that he was capable of if he only gave
his great mind to it; and the cure was almost complete.

When the girl returned, some hours later, she carried a tray, with a
cup of fragrant tea steaming on it; and a plate piled up with very hot
buttered toast, cut thick, very brown on both sides, with the butter
running through the holes in it in great golden drops, like honey from
the honeycomb. The smell of that buttered toast simply talked to Toad,
and with no uncertain voice; talked of warm kitchens, of breakfasts on
bright frosty mornings, of cosy parlour firesides on winter evenings,
when one's ramble was over and slippered feet were propped on the
fender; of the purring of contented cats, and the twitter of sleepy
canaries. Toad sat up on end once more, dried his eyes, sipped his tea
and munched his toast, and soon began talking freely about himself, and
the house he lived in, and his doings there, and how important he was,
and what a lot his friends thought of him.

The gaoler's daughter saw that the topic was doing him as much good as
the tea, as indeed it was, and encouraged him to go on.

'Tell me about Toad Hall,' said she. 'It sounds beautiful.'

'Toad Hall,' said the Toad proudly, 'is an eligible self-contained
gentleman's residence very unique; dating in part from the fourteenth
century, but replete with every modern convenience. Up-to-date
sanitation. Five minutes from church, post-office, and golf-links,
Suitable for----'

'Bless the animal,' said the girl, laughing, 'I don't want to TAKE it.
Tell me something REAL about it. But first wait till I fetch you some
more tea and toast.'

She tripped away, and presently returned with a fresh trayful; and Toad,
pitching into the toast with avidity, his spirits quite restored to
their usual level, told her about the boathouse, and the fish-pond, and
the old walled kitchen-garden; and about the pig-styes, and the stables,
and the pigeon-house, and the hen-house; and about the dairy, and the
wash-house, and the china-cupboards, and the linen-presses (she liked
that bit especially); and about the banqueting-hall, and the fun they
had there when the other animals were gathered round the table and Toad
was at his best, singing songs, telling stories, carrying on generally.
Then she wanted to know about his animal-friends, and was very
interested in all he had to tell her about them and how they lived, and
what they did to pass their time. Of course, she did not say she was
fond of animals as PETS, because she had the sense to see that Toad
would be extremely offended. When she said good night, having filled his
water-jug and shaken up his straw for him, Toad was very much the same
sanguine, self-satisfied animal that he had been of old. He sang a
little song or two, of the sort he used to sing at his dinner-parties,
curled himself up in the straw, and had an excellent night's rest and
the pleasantest of dreams.

They had many interesting talks together, after that, as the dreary days
went on; and the gaoler's daughter grew very sorry for Toad, and thought
it a great shame that a poor little animal should be locked up in prison
for what seemed to her a very trivial offence. Toad, of course, in
his vanity, thought that her interest in him proceeded from a growing
tenderness; and he could not help half-regretting that the social gulf
between them was so very wide, for she was a comely lass, and evidently
admired him very much.

One morning the girl was very thoughtful, and answered at random, and
did not seem to Toad to be paying proper attention to his witty sayings
and sparkling comments.

'Toad,' she said presently, 'just listen, please. I have an aunt who is
a washerwoman.'

'There, there,' said Toad, graciously and affably, 'never mind; think no
more about it. _I_ have several aunts who OUGHT to be washerwomen.'

'Do be quiet a minute, Toad,' said the girl. 'You talk too much, that's
your chief fault, and I'm trying to think, and you hurt my head. As I
said, I have an aunt who is a washerwoman; she does the washing for all
the prisoners in this castle--we try to keep any paying business of that
sort in the family, you understand. She takes out the washing on Monday
morning, and brings it in on Friday evening. This is a Thursday. Now,
this is what occurs to me: you're very rich--at least you're always
telling me so--and she's very poor. A few pounds wouldn't make any
difference to you, and it would mean a lot to her. Now, I think if she
were properly approached--squared, I believe is the word you animals
use--you could come to some arrangement by which she would let you have
her dress and bonnet and so on, and you could escape from the
castle as the official washerwoman. You're very alike in many
respects--particularly about the figure.'

'We're NOT,' said the Toad in a huff. 'I have a very elegant figure--for
what I am.'

'So has my aunt,' replied the girl, 'for what SHE is. But have it your
own way. You horrid, proud, ungrateful animal, when I'm sorry for you,
and trying to help you!'

'Yes, yes, that's all right; thank you very much indeed,' said the Toad
hurriedly. 'But look here! you wouldn't surely have Mr. Toad of Toad
Hall, going about the country disguised as a washerwoman!'

'Then you can stop here as a Toad,' replied the girl with much spirit.
'I suppose you want to go off in a coach-and-four!'

Honest Toad was always ready to admit himself in the wrong. 'You are a
good, kind, clever girl,' he said, 'and I am indeed a proud and a stupid
toad. Introduce me to your worthy aunt, if you will be so kind, and
I have no doubt that the excellent lady and I will be able to arrange
terms satisfactory to both parties.'

Next evening the girl ushered her aunt into Toad's cell, bearing his
week's washing pinned up in a towel. The old lady had been prepared
beforehand for the interview, and the sight of certain gold sovereigns
that Toad had thoughtfully placed on the table in full view practically
completed the matter and left little further to discuss. In return for
his cash, Toad received a cotton print gown, an apron, a shawl, and a
rusty black bonnet; the only stipulation the old lady made being that
she should be gagged and bound and dumped down in a corner. By this not
very convincing artifice, she explained, aided by picturesque fiction
which she could supply herself, she hoped to retain her situation, in
spite of the suspicious appearance of things.

Toad was delighted with the suggestion. It would enable him to leave the
prison in some style, and with his reputation for being a desperate
and dangerous fellow untarnished; and he readily helped the gaoler's
daughter to make her aunt appear as much as possible the victim of
circumstances over which she had no control.

'Now it's your turn, Toad,' said the girl. 'Take off that coat and
waistcoat of yours; you're fat enough as it is.'

Shaking with laughter, she proceeded to 'hook-and-eye' him into the
cotton print gown, arranged the shawl with a professional fold, and tied
the strings of the rusty bonnet under his chin.

'You're the very image of her,' she giggled, 'only I'm sure you never
looked half so respectable in all your life before. Now, good-bye, Toad,
and good luck. Go straight down the way you came up; and if any one says
anything to you, as they probably will, being but men, you can chaff
back a bit, of course, but remember you're a widow woman, quite alone in
the world, with a character to lose.'

With a quaking heart, but as firm a footstep as he could command,
Toad set forth cautiously on what seemed to be a most hare-brained and
hazardous undertaking; but he was soon agreeably surprised to find how
easy everything was made for him, and a little humbled at the thought
that both his popularity, and the sex that seemed to inspire it, were
really another's. The washerwoman's squat figure in its familiar cotton
print seemed a passport for every barred door and grim gateway; even
when he hesitated, uncertain as to the right turning to take, he found
himself helped out of his difficulty by the warder at the next gate,
anxious to be off to his tea, summoning him to come along sharp and not
keep him waiting there all night. The chaff and the humourous sallies
to which he was subjected, and to which, of course, he had to provide
prompt and effective reply, formed, indeed, his chief danger; for Toad
was an animal with a strong sense of his own dignity, and the chaff
was mostly (he thought) poor and clumsy, and the humour of the sallies
entirely lacking. However, he kept his temper, though with great
difficulty, suited his retorts to his company and his supposed
character, and did his best not to overstep the limits of good taste.

It seemed hours before he crossed the last courtyard, rejected the
pressing invitations from the last guardroom, and dodged the outspread
arms of the last warder, pleading with simulated passion for just one
farewell embrace. But at last he heard the wicket-gate in the great
outer door click behind him, felt the fresh air of the outer world upon
his anxious brow, and knew that he was free!

Dizzy with the easy success of his daring exploit, he walked quickly
towards the lights of the town, not knowing in the least what he should
do next, only quite certain of one thing, that he must remove himself as
quickly as possible from the neighbourhood where the lady he was forced
to represent was so well-known and so popular a character.

As he walked along, considering, his attention was caught by some red
and green lights a little way off, to one side of the town, and the
sound of the puffing and snorting of engines and the banging of shunted
trucks fell on his ear. 'Aha!' he thought, 'this is a piece of luck!
A railway station is the thing I want most in the whole world at this
moment; and what's more, I needn't go through the town to get it, and
shan't have to support this humiliating character by repartees which,
though thoroughly effective, do not assist one's sense of self-respect.'

He made his way to the station accordingly, consulted a time-table, and
found that a train, bound more or less in the direction of his home, was
due to start in half-an-hour. 'More luck!' said Toad, his spirits rising
rapidly, and went off to the booking-office to buy his ticket.

He gave the name of the station that he knew to be nearest to the
village of which Toad Hall was the principal feature, and mechanically
put his fingers, in search of the necessary money, where his waistcoat
pocket should have been. But here the cotton gown, which had nobly
stood by him so far, and which he had basely forgotten, intervened, and
frustrated his efforts. In a sort of nightmare he struggled with the
strange uncanny thing that seemed to hold his hands, turn all muscular
strivings to water, and laugh at him all the time; while other
travellers, forming up in a line behind, waited with impatience,
making suggestions of more or less value and comments of more or less
stringency and point. At last--somehow--he never rightly understood
how--he burst the barriers, attained the goal, arrived at where all
waistcoat pockets are eternally situated, and found--not only no money,
but no pocket to hold it, and no waistcoat to hold the pocket!

To his horror he recollected that he had left both coat and waistcoat
behind him in his cell, and with them his pocket-book, money, keys,
watch, matches, pencil-case--all that makes life worth living, all that
distinguishes the many-pocketed animal, the lord of creation, from the
inferior one-pocketed or no-pocketed productions that hop or trip about
permissively, unequipped for the real contest.

In his misery he made one desperate effort to carry the thing off, and,
with a return to his fine old manner--a blend of the Squire and the
College Don--he said, 'Look here! I find I've left my purse behind. Just
give me that ticket, will you, and I'll send the money on to-morrow? I'm
well-known in these parts.'

The clerk stared at him and the rusty black bonnet a moment, and then
laughed. 'I should think you were pretty well known in these parts,'
he said, 'if you've tried this game on often. Here, stand away from the
window, please, madam; you're obstructing the other passengers!'

An old gentleman who had been prodding him in the back for some moments
here thrust him away, and, what was worse, addressed him as his good
woman, which angered Toad more than anything that had occurred that
evening.

Baffled and full of despair, he wandered blindly down the platform where
the train was standing, and tears trickled down each side of his nose.
It was hard, he thought, to be within sight of safety and almost of
home, and to be baulked by the want of a few wretched shillings and by
the pettifogging mistrustfulness of paid officials. Very soon his escape
would be discovered, the hunt would be up, he would be caught, reviled,
loaded with chains, dragged back again to prison and bread-and-water and
straw; his guards and penalties would be doubled; and O, what sarcastic
remarks the girl would make! What was to be done? He was not swift of
foot; his figure was unfortunately recognisable. Could he not squeeze
under the seat of a carriage? He had seen this method adopted by
schoolboys, when the journey-money provided by thoughtful parents had
been diverted to other and better ends. As he pondered, he found
himself opposite the engine, which was being oiled, wiped, and generally
caressed by its affectionate driver, a burly man with an oil-can in one
hand and a lump of cotton-waste in the other.

'Hullo, mother!' said the engine-driver, 'what's the trouble? You don't
look particularly cheerful.'

'O, sir!' said Toad, crying afresh, 'I am a poor unhappy washerwoman,
and I've lost all my money, and can't pay for a ticket, and I must get
home to-night somehow, and whatever I am to do I don't know. O dear, O
dear!'

'That's a bad business, indeed,' said the engine-driver reflectively.
'Lost your money--and can't get home--and got some kids, too, waiting
for you, I dare say?'

'Any amount of 'em,' sobbed Toad. 'And they'll be hungry--and
playing with matches--and upsetting lamps, the little innocents!--and
quarrelling, and going on generally. O dear, O dear!'

'Well, I'll tell you what I'll do,' said the good engine-driver. 'You're
a washerwoman to your trade, says you. Very well, that's that. And
I'm an engine-driver, as you well may see, and there's no denying it's
terribly dirty work. Uses up a power of shirts, it does, till my missus
is fair tired of washing of 'em. If you'll wash a few shirts for me when
you get home, and send 'em along, I'll give you a ride on my engine.
It's against the Company's regulations, but we're not so very particular
in these out-of-the-way parts.'

The Toad's misery turned into rapture as he eagerly scrambled up into
the cab of the engine. Of course, he had never washed a shirt in his
life, and couldn't if he tried and, anyhow, he wasn't going to begin;
but he thought: 'When I get safely home to Toad Hall, and have money
again, and pockets to put it in, I will send the engine-driver enough to
pay for quite a quantity of washing, and that will be the same thing, or
better.'

The guard waved his welcome flag, the engine-driver whistled in
cheerful response, and the train moved out of the station. As the speed
increased, and the Toad could see on either side of him real fields, and
trees, and hedges, and cows, and horses, all flying past him, and as
he thought how every minute was bringing him nearer to Toad Hall, and
sympathetic friends, and money to chink in his pocket, and a soft bed
to sleep in, and good things to eat, and praise and admiration at the
recital of his adventures and his surpassing cleverness, he began to
skip up and down and shout and sing snatches of song, to the great
astonishment of the engine-driver, who had come across washerwomen
before, at long intervals, but never one at all like this.

They had covered many and many a mile, and Toad was already considering
what he would have for supper as soon as he got home, when he noticed
that the engine-driver, with a puzzled expression on his face, was
leaning over the side of the engine and listening hard. Then he saw him
climb on to the coals and gaze out over the top of the train; then he
returned and said to Toad: 'It's very strange; we're the last train
running in this direction to-night, yet I could be sworn that I heard
another following us!'

Toad ceased his frivolous antics at once. He became grave and depressed,
and a dull pain in the lower part of his spine, communicating itself to
his legs, made him want to sit down and try desperately not to think of
all the possibilities.

By this time the moon was shining brightly, and the engine-driver,
steadying himself on the coal, could command a view of the line behind
them for a long distance.

Presently he called out, 'I can see it clearly now! It is an engine, on
our rails, coming along at a great pace! It looks as if we were being
pursued!'

The miserable Toad, crouching in the coal-dust, tried hard to think of
something to do, with dismal want of success.

'They are gaining on us fast!' cried the engine-driver. And the engine
is crowded with the queerest lot of people! Men like ancient warders,
waving halberds; policemen in their helmets, waving truncheons; and
shabbily dressed men in pot-hats, obvious and unmistakable plain-clothes
detectives even at this distance, waving revolvers and walking-sticks;
all waving, and all shouting the same thing--"Stop, stop, stop!"'

Then Toad fell on his knees among the coals and, raising his clasped
paws in supplication, cried, 'Save me, only save me, dear kind Mr.
Engine-driver, and I will confess everything! I am not the simple
washerwoman I seem to be! I have no children waiting for me, innocent
or otherwise! I am a toad--the well-known and popular Mr. Toad, a landed
proprietor; I have just escaped, by my great daring and cleverness, from
a loathsome dungeon into which my enemies had flung me; and if
those fellows on that engine recapture me, it will be chains and
bread-and-water and straw and misery once more for poor, unhappy,
innocent Toad!'

The engine-driver looked down upon him very sternly, and said, 'Now tell
the truth; what were you put in prison for?'

'It was nothing very much,' said poor Toad, colouring deeply. 'I only
borrowed a motorcar while the owners were at lunch; they had no need
of it at the time. I didn't mean to steal it, really; but
people--especially magistrates--take such harsh views of thoughtless and
high-spirited actions.'

The engine-driver looked very grave and said, 'I fear that you have been
indeed a wicked toad, and by rights I ought to give you up to offended
justice. But you are evidently in sore trouble and distress, so I will
not desert you. I don't hold with motor-cars, for one thing; and I don't
hold with being ordered about by policemen when I'm on my own engine,
for another. And the sight of an animal in tears always makes me feel
queer and softhearted. So cheer up, Toad! I'll do my best, and we may
beat them yet!'

They piled on more coals, shovelling furiously; the furnace roared, the
sparks flew, the engine leapt and swung but still their pursuers slowly
gained. The engine-driver, with a sigh, wiped his brow with a handful
of cotton-waste, and said, 'I'm afraid it's no good, Toad. You see, they
are running light, and they have the better engine. There's just one
thing left for us to do, and it's your only chance, so attend very
carefully to what I tell you. A short way ahead of us is a long tunnel,
and on the other side of that the line passes through a thick wood.
Now, I will put on all the speed I can while we are running through the
tunnel, but the other fellows will slow down a bit, naturally, for fear
of an accident. When we are through, I will shut off steam and put on
brakes as hard as I can, and the moment it's safe to do so you must jump
and hide in the wood, before they get through the tunnel and see you.
Then I will go full speed ahead again, and they can chase me if they
like, for as long as they like, and as far as they like. Now mind and be
ready to jump when I tell you!'

They piled on more coals, and the train shot into the tunnel, and the
engine rushed and roared and rattled, till at last they shot out at the
other end into fresh air and the peaceful moonlight, and saw the wood
lying dark and helpful upon either side of the line. The driver shut off
steam and put on brakes, the Toad got down on the step, and as the train
slowed down to almost a walking pace he heard the driver call out, 'Now,
jump!'

Toad jumped, rolled down a short embankment, picked himself up unhurt,
scrambled into the wood and hid.

Peeping out, he saw his train get up speed again and disappear at a
great pace. Then out of the tunnel burst the pursuing engine, roaring
and whistling, her motley crew waving their various weapons and
shouting, 'Stop! stop! stop!' When they were past, the Toad had a hearty
laugh--for the first time since he was thrown into prison.

But he soon stopped laughing when he came to consider that it was now
very late and dark and cold, and he was in an unknown wood, with no
money and no chance of supper, and still far from friends and home; and
the dead silence of everything, after the roar and rattle of the train,
was something of a shock. He dared not leave the shelter of the trees,
so he struck into the wood, with the idea of leaving the railway as far
as possible behind him.

After so many weeks within walls, he found the wood strange and
unfriendly and inclined, he thought, to make fun of him. Night-jars,
sounding their mechanical rattle, made him think that the wood was full
of searching warders, closing in on him. An owl, swooping noiselessly
towards him, brushed his shoulder with its wing, making him jump with
the horrid certainty that it was a hand; then flitted off, moth-like,
laughing its low ho! ho! ho; which Toad thought in very poor taste. Once
he met a fox, who stopped, looked him up and down in a sarcastic sort
of way, and said, 'Hullo, washerwoman! Half a pair of socks and a
pillow-case short this week! Mind it doesn't occur again!' and swaggered
off, sniggering. Toad looked about for a stone to throw at him, but
could not succeed in finding one, which vexed him more than anything.
At last, cold, hungry, and tired out, he sought the shelter of a hollow
tree, where with branches and dead leaves he made himself as comfortable
a bed as he could, and slept soundly till the morning.


IX. WAYFARERS ALL

The Water Rat was restless, and he did not exactly know why. To all
appearance the summer's pomp was still at fullest height, and although
in the tilled acres green had given way to gold, though rowans were
reddening, and the woods were dashed here and there with a tawny
fierceness, yet light and warmth and colour were still present in
undiminished measure, clean of any chilly premonitions of the passing
year. But the constant chorus of the orchards and hedges had shrunk to
a casual evensong from a few yet unwearied performers; the robin was
beginning to assert himself once more; and there was a feeling in
the air of change and departure. The cuckoo, of course, had long been
silent; but many another feathered friend, for months a part of the
familiar landscape and its small society, was missing too and it seemed
that the ranks thinned steadily day by day. Rat, ever observant of all
winged movement, saw that it was taking daily a southing tendency; and
even as he lay in bed at night he thought he could make out, passing
in the darkness overhead, the beat and quiver of impatient pinions,
obedient to the peremptory call.

Nature's Grand Hotel has its Season, like the others. As the guests one
by one pack, pay, and depart, and the seats at the table-d'hote shrink
pitifully at each succeeding meal; as suites of rooms are closed,
carpets taken up, and waiters sent away; those boarders who are staying
on, en pension, until the next year's full re-opening, cannot help
being somewhat affected by all these flittings and farewells, this eager
discussion of plans, routes, and fresh quarters, this daily shrinkage in
the stream of comradeship. One gets unsettled, depressed, and inclined
to be querulous. Why this craving for change? Why not stay on quietly
here, like us, and be jolly? You don't know this hotel out of the
season, and what fun we have among ourselves, we fellows who remain and
see the whole interesting year out. All very true, no doubt the others
always reply; we quite envy you--and some other year perhaps--but just
now we have engagements--and there's the bus at the door--our time is
up! So they depart, with a smile and a nod, and we miss them, and feel
resentful. The Rat was a self-sufficing sort of animal, rooted to the
land, and, whoever went, he stayed; still, he could not help noticing
what was in the air, and feeling some of its influence in his bones.

It was difficult to settle down to anything seriously, with all this
flitting going on. Leaving the water-side, where rushes stood thick
and tall in a stream that was becoming sluggish and low, he wandered
country-wards, crossed a field or two of pasturage already looking dusty
and parched, and thrust into the great sea of wheat, yellow, wavy, and
murmurous, full of quiet motion and small whisperings. Here he often
loved to wander, through the forest of stiff strong stalks that carried
their own golden sky away over his head--a sky that was always dancing,
shimmering, softly talking; or swaying strongly to the passing wind and
recovering itself with a toss and a merry laugh. Here, too, he had
many small friends, a society complete in itself, leading full and busy
lives, but always with a spare moment to gossip, and exchange news with
a visitor. Today, however, though they were civil enough, the field-mice
and harvest-mice seemed preoccupied. Many were digging and tunnelling
busily; others, gathered together in small groups, examined plans
and drawings of small flats, stated to be desirable and compact, and
situated conveniently near the Stores. Some were hauling out dusty
trunks and dress-baskets, others were already elbow-deep packing their
belongings; while everywhere piles and bundles of wheat, oats, barley,
beech-mast and nuts, lay about ready for transport.

'Here's old Ratty!' they cried as soon as they saw him. 'Come and bear a
hand, Rat, and don't stand about idle!'

'What sort of games are you up to?' said the Water Rat severely. 'You
know it isn't time to be thinking of winter quarters yet, by a long
way!'

'O yes, we know that,' explained a field-mouse rather shamefacedly; 'but
it's always as well to be in good time, isn't it? We really MUST get
all the furniture and baggage and stores moved out of this before those
horrid machines begin clicking round the fields; and then, you know,
the best flats get picked up so quickly nowadays, and if you're late you
have to put up with ANYTHING; and they want such a lot of doing up, too,
before they're fit to move into. Of course, we're early, we know that;
but we're only just making a start.'

'O, bother STARTS,' said the Rat. 'It's a splendid day. Come for a row,
or a stroll along the hedges, or a picnic in the woods, or something.'

'Well, I THINK not TO-DAY, thank you,' replied the field-mouse
hurriedly. 'Perhaps some OTHER day--when we've more TIME----'

The Rat, with a snort of contempt, swung round to go, tripped over a
hat-box, and fell, with undignified remarks.

'If people would be more careful,' said a field-mouse rather stiffly,
'and look where they're going, people wouldn't hurt themselves--and
forget themselves. Mind that hold-all, Rat! You'd better sit down
somewhere. In an hour or two we may be more free to attend to you.'

'You won't be "free" as you call it much this side of Christmas, I can
see that,' retorted the Rat grumpily, as he picked his way out of the
field.

He returned somewhat despondently to his river again--his faithful,
steady-going old river, which never packed up, flitted, or went into
winter quarters.

In the osiers which fringed the bank he spied a swallow sitting.
Presently it was joined by another, and then by a third; and the birds,
fidgeting restlessly on their bough, talked together earnestly and low.

'What, ALREADY,' said the Rat, strolling up to them. 'What's the hurry?
I call it simply ridiculous.'

'O, we're not off yet, if that's what you mean,' replied the first
swallow. 'We're only making plans and arranging things. Talking it over,
you know--what route we're taking this year, and where we'll stop, and
so on. That's half the fun!'

'Fun?' said the Rat; 'now that's just what I don't understand. If you've
GOT to leave this pleasant place, and your friends who will miss you,
and your snug homes that you've just settled into, why, when the hour
strikes I've no doubt you'll go bravely, and face all the trouble and
discomfort and change and newness, and make believe that you're not very
unhappy. But to want to talk about it, or even think about it, till you
really need----'

'No, you don't understand, naturally,' said the second swallow. 'First,
we feel it stirring within us, a sweet unrest; then back come the
recollections one by one, like homing pigeons. They flutter through our
dreams at night, they fly with us in our wheelings and circlings by
day. Miss Cephalis blushed like a carnation at the sight of Mr. Escot,
and Mr. Escot glowed like a corn-poppy at the sight of Miss
Cephalis.

Mr. Escot had formerly been the received lover of Miss Cephalis, till
he incurred the indignation of her father by laughing at a very profound
dissertation which the old gentleman delivered.

Next arrived a postchaise containing four insides. These personages
were two very profound critics, Mr. Gall and Mr. Treacle, and two
very multitudinous versifiers, Mr. Nightshade and Mr. McLaurel.

The last arrivals were Mr. Cornelius Chromatic, the most scientific of
all amateurs of the fiddle, with his two blooming daughters, Miss
Tenorina and Miss Graziosa; Sir Patrick O'Prism, a dilettante painter of
high renown, and his maiden aunt, Miss Philomela Poppyseed, a compounder
of novels written for the express purpose of supporting every species
of superstition and prejudice; and Mr. Panscope, the chemical, botanical,
geological, astronomical, critical philosopher, who had run through
the whole circle of the sciences and understood them all equally well.

Mr.

Milestone was impatient to take a walk round the grounds, that he might
examine how far the system of clumping and levelling could be carried
advantageously into effect; and several of the party supporting the
proposition, with Squire Headlong and Mr. Milestone leading the van,
they commenced their perambulation.

_III.--The Tower and the Skull_

The result of Mr. Milestone's eloquence was that he and the squire set
out again, immediately after breakfast next morning, to examine the
capabilities of the scenery. The object that most attracted Mr.
Milestone's admiration was a ruined tower on a projecting point of
rock, almost totally overgrown with ivy.

This ivy, Mr. Milestone observed, required trimming and clearing in
various parts; a little pointing and polishing was necessary for the
dilapidated walls; and the whole effect would be materially increased
by a plantation of spruce fir, the present rugged and broken ascent
being first converted into a beautiful slope, which might be easily
effected by blowing up a part of the rock with gunpowder, laying
on a quantity of fine mould, and covering the whole with an elegant
stratum of turf.

Squire Headlong caught with avidity at this suggestion, and as he had
always a store of gunpowder in the house, he insisted on commencing
operations immediately. Accordingly, he bounded back to the house and
speedily returned, accompanied by the little butler and half a dozen
servants and labourers with pickaxes and gunpowder, a hanging
stove, and a poker, together with a basket of cold meat and two or
three bottles of Madeira.

Mr. Milestone superintended the proceedings. The rock was excavated,
the powder introduced, the apertures strongly blockaded with
fragments of stone; a long train was laid to a spot sufficiently
remote from the possibility of harm, and the squire seized the
poker, and applied the end of it to the train.

At this critical moment Mr. Cranium and Mr. Panscope appeared at the
top of the tower, which, unseeing and unseen, they had ascended on
the opposite side to that where the squire and Mr. Milestone were
conducting their operations.

Their sudden appearance a little dismayed the squire, who, however,
comforted himself with the reflection that the tower was perfectly safe,
and that his friends were in no probable danger but of a knock on
the head from a flying fragment of stone.

The explosion took place, and the shattered rock was hurled into the air
in the midst of fire and smoke. The tower remained untouched, but the
influence of sudden fear had so violent an effect on Mr. Cranium, that
he lost his balance, and alighted in an ivy bush, which, giving way
beneath him, transferred him to a tuft of hazel at its base, which
consigned him to the boughs of an ash that had rooted itself in a
fissure about halfway down the rock, which finally transmitted him
to the waters of the lake.

Squire Headlong anxiously watched the tower as the smoke rolled away;
but when the shadowy curtain was withdrawn, and Mr. Panscope was
discovered, alone, in a tragical attitude, his apprehensions became
boundless, and he concluded that a flying fragment of rock had killed
Mr. Cranium.

Mr. Escot arrived at the scene of the disaster just as Mr. Cranium,
utterly destitute of the art of swimming, was in imminent danger of
drowning. Mr. Escot immediately plunged in to his assistance, and
brought him alive and in safety to a shelving part of the shore.
Their landing was hailed with a shout from the delighted squire,
who, shaking them both heartily by the hand, and making ten thousand
lame apologies to Mr.

Cranium, concluded by asking, in a pathetic tone, "How much water he
had swallowed?" and without waiting for his answer, filled a large
tumbler with Madeira, and insisted on his tossing it off, which was no
sooner said than done. Mr. Panscope descended the tower, which he
vowed never again to approach within a quarter of a mile.

The squire took care that Mr. Cranium should be seated next to him at
dinner, and plied him so hard with Madeira, to prevent him, as he said,
from taking cold, that long before the ladies sent in their summons
to coffee, the squire was under the necessity of ringing for three
or four servants to carry him to bed, observing, with a smile of
great satisfaction, that he was in a very excellent way for escaping
any ill consequences that might have resulted from his accident.

The beautiful Cephalis, being thus freed from his surveillance, was
enabled, during the course of the evening, to develop to his preserver
the full extent of her gratitude.

Mr. Escot passed a sleepless night, the ordinary effect of love, according
to some amatory poets, and arose with the first peep of day.

He sallied forth to enjoy the balmy breeze of morning, which any but
a lover might have thought too cool; for it was an intense frost,
the sun had not risen, and the wind was rather fresh from the
north-east.

But a lover is supposed to have "a fire in his heart and a fire in
his brain," and the philosopher walked on, careless of whither he went,
till he found himself near the enclosure of a little mountain chapel.
Passing through the wicket, and peeping through the chapel window, he
could not refrain from reciting a verse in Greek aloud, to the great
terror of the sexton, who was just entering the churchyard.

Mr.

Escot at once decided that now was the time to get extensive and accurate
information concerning his theory of the physical deterioration
of man.

"You have been sexton here," said Mr. Escot, in the language of Hamlet,
"man and boy, forty years."
The sexton turned pale; the period named was so nearly the true.

"During this period you have, of course, dug up many bones of the people
of ancient times.

Perhaps you can show me a few."
The sexton grinned a ghastly smile.

"Will you take your Bible oath you don't want them to raise the devil
with?"
"Willingly," said Mr. Escot. "I have an abstruse reason for the inquiry."

"Why, if you have an _obtuse_ reason," said the sexton, "that alters
the case."

So saying, he led the way to the bone-house, from which he began to throw
out various bones and skulls, and amongst them a skull of very
extraordinary magnitude, which he swore by St.

David was the skull of Cadwallader.

"How do you know this to be his skull?" said Mr. Escot.

"He was the biggest man that ever lived, and he was buried here; and
this is the biggest skull I ever found. You see now----"
"Nothing could be more logical," said Mr. Escot. "My good friend,
will you allow me to take away this skull with me?"
"St. Winifred bless us!" exclaimed the sexton. "Would you have me haunted
by his ghost for taking his blessed bones out of consecrated ground?
For, look you, his epitaph says:

"'He that my bones shall ill bestow, Leek in his ground shall
never grow.'"
"But you will well bestow them in giving them to me," said Mr. Escot.
"I will have this illustrious skull bound with a silver rim and filled
with wine, for when the wine is in the brain is out."

Saying these words, he put a dollar into the hand of the sexton,
who instantly stood spellbound, while Mr. Escot walked off in
triumph with the skull of Cadwallader.

_IV.--The Proposals_

The Christmas ball, when relatives and friends assembled from far and
wide, was the great entertainment given at Headlong Hall from time
immemorial, and it was on the morning after the ball that Miss
Brindle-Mew Tabitha Ap-Headlong, the squire's maiden aunt, took her
nephew aside, and told him it was time he was married if the family
was not to become extinct.

"Egad!" said Squire Headlong. "That is very true. I'll marry directly. A
good opportunity to fix on someone now they are all here, and I'll
pop the question without further ceremony. I'll think of somebody
presently.
I should like to be married on the same day with Caprioletta. She is going
to be married to my friend Mr.

Foster, the philosopher."
"Oh!" said the maiden aunt, "that a daughter of our ancient family should
marry a philosopher!"
"It's Caprioletta's affair, not mine," said Squire Headlong. "I tell you
the matter is settled, fixed, determined, and so am I, to be married on
the same day. I don't know, now I think of it, whom I can choose better
than one of the daughters of my friend Chromatic."
With that the squire flew over to Mr. Chromatic, and, with a hearty
slap on the shoulder, asked him "How he should like him for a son-in-law?"

Mr. Chromatic, rubbing his shoulder, and highly delighted with the
proposal, answered, "Very much indeed"; but, proceeding to ascertain
which of his daughters had captivated the squire, the squire was unable
to satisfy his curiosity.

"I hope," said Mr. Chromatic, "it may be Tenorina, for I imagine Graziosa
has conceived a penchant for Sir Patrick O'Prism."
"Tenorina, exactly!" said Squire Headlong; and became so impatient
to bring the matter to a conclusion that Mr. Chromatic undertook to
communicate with his daughter immediately. The young lady proved to be
as ready as the squire, and the preliminaries were arranged in little
more than five minutes.

Mr. Chromatic's words concerning his daughter Graziosa and Sir Patrick
O'Prism were not lost on the squire, who at once determined to
have as many companions in the scrape as possible; and who, as soon
as he could tear himself from Mrs.

Headlong elect, took three flying bounds across the room to the baronet,
and said, "So, Sir Patrick, I find you and I are going to be
married?"
"Are we?" said Sir Patrick. "Then sure, won't I wish you joy, and myself
too, for this is the first I have heard of it."
"Well," said Squire Headlong, "I have made up my mind to it, and you must
not disappoint me."
"To be sure, I won't, if I can help it," said Sir Patrick. "And pray,
now, who is that I am to be turning into Lady O'Prism?"

"Miss Graziosa Chromatic," said the squire.

"Och violet and vermilion!" said Sir Patrick; "though I never thought
of it before, I dare say she will suit me as well as another; but
then you must persuade the ould Orpheus to draw out a few notes
of rather a more magical description than those he is so fond of
scraping on his crazy violin."

"To be sure, he shall," said the squire; and immediately returning
to Mr.

Chromatic, concluded the negotiation for Sir Patrick as expeditiously as
he had done for himself.

The squire next addressed himself to Mr. Escot: "Here are three couples
of us going to throw off together, with the Reverend Doctor Gaster for
whipper in. Now I think you cannot do better than to make the fourth
with Miss Cephalis."
"Indeed?" said Mr. Escot. "Nothing would be more agreeable to both of us
than such an arrangement; but the old gentleman since I first knew him
has changed like the rest of the world, very lamentably for the
worse.".

"I'll settle him," said Squire Headlong; and immediately posted up to
Mr. Cranium, informing him that four marriages were about to take place
by way of a merry winding up of the Christmas festivities. "In the first
place," said the squire, "my sister and Mr. Foster; in the second, Miss
Graziosa Chromatic and Sir Patrick O'Prism; in the third, Miss Tenorina
Chromatic and your humble servant; and in the fourth, to which, by the
by, your consent is wanted, your daughter----"
"And Mr. Panscope," said Mr. Cranium.

"And Mr. Escot," said Squire Headlong. What would you have better? He
has ten thousand virtues."
"So has Mr. Panscope. He has ten thousand a year."
"Virtues?" said Squire Headlong.

"Pounds," said Mr. Cranium.

"Who fished you out of the water?" said Squire Headlong..

"What is that to the purpose?" said Mr. Cranium. "The whole process of the
action was mechanical and necessary. He could no more help jumping into
the water than I could help falling into it."
"Very well," said the squire.

"Your daughter and Mr. Escot are necessitated to love one another."

Mr. Cranium, after a profound reverie, said, "Do you think Mr.
Escot would give me that skull?"
"Skull?" said Squire Headlong.

"Yes," said Mr. Cranium. "The skull of Cadwallader."
"To be sure he will. How can you doubt it?"
"I simply know," said Mr. Cranium, "that if it were once in my possession
I would not part with it for any acquisition on earth, much less
for a wife."

The squire flew over to Mr. Escot. "I told you," said he, "I would settle
him; but there is a very hard condition attached to his compliance.
Nothing less than the absolute and unconditional surrender of the skull
of Cadwallader."
"I resign it," said Mr. Escot.

"The skull is yours," said the squire, skipping over to Mr. Cranium.

"I am perfectly satisfied," said Mr. Cranium.

"The lady is yours," said the squire, skipping back to Mr. Escot.

"I am the happiest man alive," said Mr. Escot, and he flew off as
nimbly as Squire Headlong himself, to impart the happy intelligence to
his beautiful Cephalis.

The departure of the ball visitors then took place, and the squire
did not suffer many days to elapse before the spiritual metamorphosis of
eight into four was effected by the clerical dexterity of the Reverend
Doctor Gaster.

* * * * *

Nightmare Abbey

"Nightmare Abbey" is perhaps the most extravagant of all Peacock's
stories, and, with the exception of "Headlong Hall," it obtained more
vogue on its publication in 1818 than any of his other works. It
is eminently characteristic of its author--the eighteenth century
Rabelaisian pagan who prided himself on his antagonism towards religion,
yet whose likes and dislikes were invariably inspired by hatred of cant
and enthusiasm for progress. The hero of the story is easily
distinguishable as the poet Shelley. On the whole the characters are
more life-like presentations of humanity than those of "Headlong Hall."
Simple and weak though the plot is, the reader is carried along
to the end through a brilliant maze of wit and satire; underneath which
outward show of irresponsible fun there pervades a gloomy note of
tragedy.

_I.--Mr. Glowry and His Son_

Nightmare Abbey, a venerable family mansion in a highly picturesque state
of semi-dilapidation, in the county of, Lincoln, had the honour to
be the seat of Christopher Glowry, Esquire, a gentleman much troubled
with those phantoms of indigestion commonly called "blue devils."

Disappointed both in love and friendship, he had come to the conclusion
that there was but one good thing in the world, videlicet, a good
dinner; and remained a widower, with one only son and heir,
Scythrop.

This son had been sent to a public-school, where a little learning was
painfully beaten into him, and thence to the university, where it was
carefully taken out of him, and he finished his education to the
high satisfaction of the master and fellows of his college.

He passed his vacations sometimes at Nightmare Abbey, and sometimes in
London, at the house of his uncle, Mr. Hilary, a very cheerful and
elastic gentleman.
The company that frequented his house was the gayest of the gay.
Scythrop danced with the ladies and drank with the gentlemen, and was
pronounced by both a very accomplished, charming fellow.

Here he first saw the beautiful Miss Emily Girouette, and fell in love;
he was favourably received, but the respective fathers quarrelled
about the terms of the bargain, and the two lovers were torn asunder,
weeping and vowing eternal constancy; and in three weeks the lady was
led a smiling bride to the altar, leaving Scythrop half distracted.
His father, to comfort him, read him a commentary on Ecclesiastes,
of his own composition; it was thrown away upon Scythrop, who retired
to his tower as dismal and disconsolate as before.

The tower which Scythrop inhabited stood at the south-eastern angle of the
abbey; the south-western was ruinous and full of owls; the north-eastern
contained the apartments of Mr. Glowry; the north-eastern tower was
appropriated to the servants, whom Mr. Glowry always chose by one of two
criterions--a long face or a dismal name. The main building was divided
into room of state, spacious apartments for feasting, and numerous bedrooms
for visitors, who, however, were few.

Occasional visits were paid by Mr. and Mrs. Hilary, but another visitor,
much more to Mr. dowry's taste, was Mr. Flosky, a very lachrymose and
morbid gentleman, of some note in the literary world, with a very fine
sense of the grim and the tearful.

But the dearest friend of Mr. Glowry, and his most welcome guest, was
Mr. Toobad, the Manichean Millenarian. The twelfth verse of the twelfth
chapter of Revelations was always in his mouth: "Woe to the inhabitants
of the earth and of the sea, for the devil is come among you, having
great wrath, because he knoweth he hath but a short time."

He maintained that this precise time was the point of the plenitude
of the power of the Evil Principle; he used to add that by and by he
would be cast down, and a happy order of things succeed, but never
omitted to add "Not in our time," which last words were always
echoed by Mr.

Glowry, in doleful response.

Shortly after Scythrop's disappointment Mr. Glowry was involved in a
lawsuit, which compelled his attendance in London, and Scythrop was
left alone, to wander about, with the "Sorrows of Werter" in his hand.

He now became troubled with the passion for reforming the world, and
meditated on the practicability of reviving a confederacy of
regenerators.

He wrote and published a treatise in which his meanings were carefully
wrapped up in the monk's hood of transcendental technology, but
filled with hints of matters deep and dangerous, which he thought
would set the whole nation in a ferment, and awaited the result in
awful expectation; some months after he received a letter from his
bookseller, informing him that only seven copies had been sold, and
concluding with a polite request for the balance.
"Seven copies!" he thought. "Seven is a mystical number, and the
omen is good. Let me find the seven purchasers, and they shall be
the seven golden candlesticks with which I shall illuminate the
world."
Scythrop had a certain portion of mechanical genius, and constructed
models of cells and recesses, sliding panels and secret passages,
which would have baffled the skill of the Parisian police. In his
father's absence, he smuggled a dumb carpenter into his tower, and
gave reality to one of these models. He foresaw that a great leader
of regeneration would be involved in fearful dilemmas, and determined
to adopt all possible precautions for his own preservation.
In the meantime, he drank Madeira and laid deep schemes for a
thorough repair of the crazy fabric of human nature.
_II.--Marionetta_
Mr. Glowry returned with the loss of his lawsuit, and found Scythrop
in a mood most sympathetically tragic. His friends, whom we have
mentioned, availed themselves of his return to pay him a simultaneous
visit, and at the same time arrived Scythrop's friend and
fellow-collegian, the Hon.
Mr. Listless, a young gentleman devoured with a gloomy and
misanthropical _nil curo_.asked the Mole in great surprise,
grasping him by the arm.

'Going South, with the rest of them,' murmured the Rat in a dreamy
monotone, never looking at him. 'Seawards first and then on shipboard,
and so to the shores that are calling me!'

He pressed resolutely forward, still without haste, but with dogged
fixity of purpose; but the Mole, now thoroughly alarmed, placed himself
in front of him, and looking into his eyes saw that they were glazed and
set and turned a streaked and shifting grey--not his friend's eyes, but
the eyes of some other animal! Grappling with him strongly he dragged
him inside, threw him down, and held him.

The Rat struggled desperately for a few moments, and then his strength
seemed suddenly to leave him, and he lay still and exhausted, with
closed eyes, trembling. Presently the Mole assisted him to rise and
placed him in a chair, where he sat collapsed and shrunken into
himself, his body shaken by a violent shivering, passing in time into
an hysterical fit of dry sobbing. Mole made the door fast, threw the
satchel into a drawer and locked it, and sat down quietly on the table
by his friend, waiting for the strange seizure to pass. Gradually the
Rat sank into a troubled doze, broken by starts and confused murmurings
of things strange and wild and foreign to the unenlightened Mole; and
from that he passed into a deep slumber.

Very anxious in mind, the Mole left him for a time and busied himself
with household matters; and it was getting dark when he returned to the
parlour and found the Rat where he had left him, wide awake indeed, but
listless, silent, and dejected. He took one hasty glance at his eyes;
found them, to his great gratification, clear and dark and brown again
as before; and then sat down and tried to cheer him up and help him to
relate what had happened to him.

Poor Ratty did his best, by degrees, to explain things; but how could
he put into cold words what had mostly been suggestion? How recall, for
another's benefit, the haunting sea voices that had sung to him,
how reproduce at second-hand the magic of the Seafarer's hundred
reminiscences? Even to himself, now the spell was broken and the glamour
gone, he found it difficult to account for what had seemed, some hours
ago, the inevitable and only thing. It is not surprising, then, that he
failed to convey to the Mole any clear idea of what he had been through
that day.

To the Mole this much was plain: the fit, or attack, had passed
away, and had left him sane again, though shaken and cast down by the
reaction. But he seemed to have lost all interest for the time in the
things that went to make up his daily life, as well as in all pleasant
forecastings of the altered days and doings that the changing season was
surely bringing.

Casually, then, and with seeming indifference, the Mole turned his talk
to the harvest that was being gathered in, the towering wagons and their
straining teams, the growing ricks, and the large moon rising over bare
acres dotted with sheaves. He talked of the reddening apples around, of
the browning nuts, of jams and preserves and the distilling of cordials;
till by easy stages such as these he reached midwinter, its hearty joys
and its snug home life, and then he became simply lyrical.

By degrees the Rat began to sit up and to join in. His dull eye
brightened, and he lost some of his listening air.

Presently the tactful Mole slipped away and returned with a pencil and
a few half-sheets of paper, which he placed on the table at his friend's
elbow.

'It's quite a long time since you did any poetry,' he remarked. 'You
might have a try at it this evening, instead of--well, brooding over
things so much. I've an idea that you'll feel a lot better when you've
got something jotted down--if it's only just the rhymes.'

The Rat pushed the paper away from him wearily, but the discreet Mole
took occasion to leave the room, and when he peeped in again some
time later, the Rat was absorbed and deaf to the world; alternately
scribbling and sucking the top of his pencil. It is true that he sucked
a good deal more than he scribbled; but it was joy to the Mole to know
that the cure had at least begun.


X. THE FURTHER ADVENTURES OF TOAD

The front door of the hollow tree faced eastwards, so Toad was called at
an early hour; partly by the bright sunlight streaming in on him, partly
by the exceeding coldness of his toes, which made him dream that he was
at home in bed in his own handsome room with the Tudor window, on a cold
winter's night, and his bedclothes had got up, grumbling and protesting
they couldn't stand the cold any longer, and had run downstairs to the
kitchen fire to warm themselves; and he had followed, on bare feet,
along miles and miles of icy stone-paved passages, arguing and
beseeching them to be reasonable. He would probably have been aroused
much earlier, had he not slept for some weeks on straw over stone flags,
and almost forgotten the friendly feeling of thick blankets pulled well
up round the chin.

Sitting up, he rubbed his eyes first and his complaining toes next,
wondered for a moment where he was, looking round for familiar
stone wall and little barred window; then, with a leap of the heart,
remembered everything--his escape, his flight, his pursuit; remembered,
first and best thing of all, that he was free!

Free! The word and the thought alone were worth fifty blankets. He was
warm from end to end as he thought of the jolly world outside, waiting
eagerly for him to make his triumphal entrance, ready to serve him
and play up to him, anxious to help him and to keep him company, as it
always had been in days of old before misfortune fell upon him. He shook
himself and combed the dry leaves out of his hair with his fingers; and,
his toilet complete, marched forth into the comfortable morning sun,
cold but confident, hungry but hopeful, all nervous terrors of yesterday
dispelled by rest and sleep and frank and heartening sunshine.

He had the world all to himself, that early summer morning. The dewy
woodland, as he threaded it, was solitary and still: the green fields
that succeeded the trees were his own to do as he liked with; the road
itself, when he reached it, in that loneliness that was everywhere,
seemed, like a stray dog, to be looking anxiously for company. Toad,
however, was looking for something that could talk, and tell him clearly
which way he ought to go. It is all very well, when you have a light
heart, and a clear conscience, and money in your pocket, and nobody
scouring the country for you to drag you off to prison again, to follow
where the road beckons and points, not caring whither. The practical
Toad cared very much indeed, and he could have kicked the road for its
helpless silence when every minute was of importance to him.

The reserved rustic road was presently joined by a shy little brother in
the shape of a canal, which took its hand and ambled along by its side
in perfect confidence, but with the same tongue-tied, uncommunicative
attitude towards strangers. 'Bother them!' said Toad to himself. 'But,
anyhow, one thing's clear. They must both be coming FROM somewhere,
and going TO somewhere. You can't get over that. Toad, my boy!' So he
marched on patiently by the water's edge.

Round a bend in the canal came plodding a solitary horse, stooping
forward as if in anxious thought. From rope traces attached to his
collar stretched a long line, taut, but dipping with his stride, the
further part of it dripping pearly drops. Toad let the horse pass, and
stood waiting for what the fates were sending him.

With a pleasant swirl of quiet water at its blunt bow the barge slid up
alongside of him, its gaily painted gunwale level with the towing-path,
its sole occupant a big stout woman wearing a linen sun-bonnet, one
brawny arm laid along the tiller.

'A nice morning, ma'am!' she remarked to Toad, as she drew up level with
him.

'I dare say it is, ma'am!' responded Toad politely, as he walked along
the tow-path abreast of her. 'I dare it IS a nice morning to them that's
not in sore trouble, like what I am. Here's my married daughter, she
sends off to me post-haste to come to her at once; so off I comes, not
knowing what may be happening or going to happen, but fearing the worst,
as you will understand, ma'am, if you're a mother, too. And I've left my
business to look after itself--I'm in the washing and laundering line,
you must know, ma'am--and I've left my young children to look after
themselves, and a more mischievous and troublesome set of young imps
doesn't exist, ma'am; and I've lost all my money, and lost my way, and
as for what may be happening to my married daughter, why, I don't like
to think of it, ma'am!'

'Where might your married daughter be living, ma'am?' asked the
barge-woman.

'She lives near to the river, ma'am,' replied Toad. 'Close to a fine
house called Toad Hall, that's somewheres hereabouts in these parts.
Perhaps you may have heard of it.'

'Toad Hall? Why, I'm going that way myself,' replied the barge-woman.
'This canal joins the river some miles further on, a little above Toad
Hall; and then it's an easy walk. You come along in the barge with me,
and I'll give you a lift.'

She steered the barge close to the bank, and Toad, with many humble and
grateful acknowledgments, stepped lightly on board and sat down with
great satisfaction. 'Toad's luck again!' thought he. 'I always come out
on top!'

'So you're in the washing business, ma'am?' said the barge-woman
politely, as they glided along. 'And a very good business you've got
too, I dare say, if I'm not making too free in saying so.'

'Finest business in the whole country,' said Toad airily. 'All the
gentry come to me--wouldn't go to any one else if they were paid, they
know me so well. You see, I understand my work thoroughly, and attend to
it all myself. Washing, ironing, clear-starching, making up gents' fine
shirts for evening wear--everything's done under my own eye!'

'But surely you don't DO all that work yourself, ma'am?' asked the
barge-woman respectfully.

'O, I have girls,' said Toad lightly: 'twenty girls or thereabouts,
always at work. But you know what GIRLS are, ma'am! Nasty little
hussies, that's what _I_ call 'em!'

'So do I, too,' said the barge-woman with great heartiness. 'But I dare
say you set yours to rights, the idle trollops! And are you very fond of
washing?'

'I love it,' said Toad. 'I simply dote on it. Never so happy as when
I've got both arms in the wash-tub. But, then, it comes so easy to me!
No trouble at all! A real pleasure, I assure you, ma'am!'

'What a bit of luck, meeting you!' observed the barge-woman,
thoughtfully. 'A regular piece of good fortune for both of us!'

'Why, what do you mean?' asked Toad, nervously.

'Well, look at me, now,' replied the barge-woman. '_I_ like washing,
too, just the same as you do; and for that matter, whether I like it or
not I have got to do all my own, naturally, moving about as I do. Now my
husband, he's such a fellow for shirking his work and leaving the barge
to me, that never a moment do I get for seeing to my own affairs. By
rights he ought to be here now, either steering or attending to the
horse, though luckily the horse has sense enough to attend to himself.
Instead of which, he's gone off with the dog, to see if they can't pick
up a rabbit for dinner somewhere. Says he'll catch me up at the next
lock. Well, that's as may be--I don't trust him, once he gets off with
that dog, who's worse than he is. But meantime, how am I to get on with
my washing?'

'O, never mind about the washing,' said Toad, not liking the subject.
'Try and fix your mind on that rabbit. A nice fat young rabbit, I'll be
bound. Got any onions?'

'I can't fix my mind on anything but my washing,' said the barge-woman,
'and I wonder you can be talking of rabbits, with such a joyful prospect
before you. There's a heap of things of mine that you'll find in
a corner of the cabin. If you'll just take one or two of the most
necessary sort--I won't venture to describe them to a lady like you, but
you'll recognise them at a glance--and put them through the wash-tub as
we go along, why, it'll be a pleasure to you, as you rightly say, and a
real help to me. You'll find a tub handy, and soap, and a kettle on the
stove, and a bucket to haul up water from the canal with. Then I shall
know you're enjoying yourself, instead of sitting here idle, looking at
the scenery and yawning your head off.'

'Here, you let me steer!' said Toad, now thoroughly frightened, 'and
then you can get on with your washing your own way. I might spoil your
things, or not do 'em as you like. I'm more used to gentlemen's things
myself. It's my special line.'

'Let you steer?' replied the barge-woman, laughing. 'It takes some
practice to steer a barge properly. Besides, it's dull work, and I want
you to be happy. No, you shall do the washing you are so fond of, and
I'll stick to the steering that I understand. Don't try and deprive me
of the pleasure of giving you a treat!'

Toad was fairly cornered. He looked for escape this way and that,
saw that he was too far from the bank for a flying leap, and sullenly
resigned himself to his fate. 'If it comes to that,' he thought in
desperation, 'I suppose any fool can WASH!'

He fetched tub, soap, and other necessaries from the cabin, selected a
few garments at random, tried to recollect what he had seen in casual
glances through laundry windows, and set to.

A long half-hour passed, and every minute of it saw Toad getting crosser
and crosser. Nothing that he could do to the things seemed to please
them or do them good. He tried coaxing, he tried slapping, he tried
punching; they smiled back at him out of the tub unconverted, happy in
their original sin. Once or twice he looked nervously over his shoulder
at the barge-woman, but she appeared to be gazing out in front of her,
absorbed in her steering. His back ached badly, and he noticed with
dismay that his paws were beginning to get all crinkly. Now Toad was
very proud of his paws. He muttered under his breath words that should
never pass the lips of either washerwomen or Toads; and lost the soap,
for the fiftieth time.

A burst of laughter made him straighten himself and look round. The
barge-woman was leaning back and laughing unrestrainedly, till the tears
ran down her cheeks.

'I've been watching you all the time,' she gasped. 'I thought you
must be a humbug all along, from the conceited way you talked. Pretty
washerwoman you are! Never washed so much as a dish-clout in your life,
I'll lay!'

Toad's temper which had been simmering viciously for some time, now
fairly boiled over, and he lost all control of himself.

'You common, low, FAT barge-woman!' he shouted; 'don't you dare to talk
to your betters like that! Washerwoman indeed! If there is anything in
the great principle of unalienable rights so emphatically insisted
upon in our Declaration of Independence, they could neither make nor
the United States accept a surrender of their liberties and become
the subjects--in other words, the slaves--of their former
fellow-citizens.

If this be true--and it will scarcely be denied by anyone who has a
correct idea of his own rights as an American citizen--the grant to
Congress of exclusive jurisdiction in the District of Columbia can be
interpreted, so far as respects the aggregate people of the United
States, as meaning nothing more than to allow to Congress the
controlling power necessary to afford a free and safe exercise of
the functions assigned to the General Government by the Constitution.

In all other respects the legislation of Congress should be adapted to
their peculiar position and wants and be conformable with their
deliberate opinions of their own interests.

I have spoken of the necessity of keeping the respective departments
of the Government, as well as all the other authorities of our
country, within their appropriate orbits.

This is a matter of difficulty in some cases, as the powers which
they respectively claim are often not defined by any distinct lines.
Mischievous, however, in their tendencies as collisions of this kind may
be, those which arise between the respective communities which for
certain purposes compose one nation are much more so, for no such nation
can long exist without the careful culture of those feelings of confidence
and affection which are the effective bonds to union between free
and confederated states.

Strong as is the tie of interest, it has been often found ineffectual.
Men blinded by their passions have been known to adopt measures for
their country in direct opposition to all the suggestions of policy.
The alternative, then, is to destroy or keep down a bad passion by
creating and fostering a good one, and this seems to be the corner stone
upon which our American political architects have reared the fabric
of our Government.

The cement which was to bind it and perpetuate its existence was the
affectionate attachment between all its members. To insure the continuance
of this feeling, produced at first by a community of dangers, of
sufferings, and of interests, the advantages of each were made
accessible to all.

No participation in any good possessed by any member of our extensive
Confederacy, except in domestic government, was withheld from the
citizen of any other member. By a process attended with no difficulty,
no delay, no expense but that of removal, the citizen of one might
become the citizen of any other, and successively of the whole. The
lines, too, separating powers to be exercised by the citizens of one
State from those of another seem to be so distinctly drawn as to leave
no room for misunderstanding. The citizens of each State unite in their
persons all the privileges which that character confers and all that they
may claim as citizens of the United States, but in no case can the same
persons at the same time act as the citizen of two separate States,
and he is therefore positively precluded from any interference with
the reserved powers of any State but that of which he is for the
time being a citizen.

He may, indeed, offer to the citizens of other States his advice as to
their management, and the form in which it is tendered is left to his
own discretion and sense of propriety. It may be observed, however,
that organized associations of citizens requiring compliance with
their wishes too much resemble the recommendations of Athens to her
allies, supported by an armed and powerful fleet. It was, indeed,
to the ambition of the leading States of Greece to control the
domestic concerns of the others that the destruction of that celebrated
Confederacy, and subsequently of all its members, is mainly to be
attributed, and it is owing to the absence of that spirit that the
Helvetic Confederacy has for so many years been preserved.

Never has there been seen in the institutions of the separate members of
any confederacy more elements of discord. In the principles and
forms of government and religion, as well as in the circumstances of the
several Cantons, so marked a discrepancy was observable as to promise
anything but harmony in their intercourse or permanency in their alliance,
and yet for ages neither has been interrupted. Content with the positive
benefits which their union produced, with the independence and safety
from foreign aggression which it secured, these sagacious people respected
the institutions of each other, however repugnant to their own principles
and prejudices.

Our Confederacy, fellow-citizens, can only be preserved by the same
forbearance. Our citizens must be content with the exercise of the
powers with which the Constitution clothes them. The attempt of those
of one State to control the domestic institutions of another can only
result in feelings of distrust and jealousy, the certain harbingers
of disunion, violence, and civil war, and the ultimate destruction
of our free institutions. Our Confederacy is perfectly illustrated by
the terms and principles governing a common copartnership. There is a
fund of power to be exercised under the direction of the joint councils
of the allied members, but that which has been reserved by the
individual members is intangible by the common Government or the
individual members composing it.

To attempt it finds no support in the principles of our Constitution.

It should be our constant and earnest endeavor mutually to cultivate a
spirit of concord and harmony among the various parts of our
Confederacy. Experience has abundantly taught us that the agitation by
citizens of one part of the Union of a subject not confided to the General
Government, but exclusively under the guardianship of the local
authorities, is productive of no other consequences than bitterness,
alienation, discord, and injury to the very cause which is intended
to be advanced.

Of all the great interests which appertain to our country, that of
union--cordial, confiding, fraternal union--is by far the most
important, since it is the only true and sure guaranty of all others.

In consequence of the embarrassed state of business and the currency,
some of the States may meet with difficulty in their financial
concerns.

However deeply we may regret anything imprudent or excessive in the
engagements into which States have entered for purposes of their
own, it does not become us to disparage the States governments, nor
to discourage them from making proper efforts for their own relief.
On the contrary, it is our duty to encourage them to the extent of
our constitutional authority to apply their best means and cheerfully
to make all necessary sacrifices and submit to all necessary burdens
to fulfill their engagements and maintain their credit, for the
character and credit of the several States form a part of the
character and credit of the whole country.

The resources of the country are abundant, the enterprise and activity of
our people proverbial, and we may well hope that wise legislation and
prudent administration by the respective governments, each acting within
its own sphere, will restore former prosperity.

Unpleasant and even dangerous as collisions may sometimes be between
the constituted authorities of the citizens of our country in
relation to the lines which separate their respective jurisdictions,
the results can be of no vital injury to our institutions if that
ardent patriotism, that devoted attachment to liberty, that spirit
of moderation and forbearance for which our countrymen were once
distinguished, continue to be cherished.

If this continues to be the ruling passion of our souls, the weaker feeling
of the mistaken enthusiast will be corrected, the Utopian dreams of the
scheming politician dissipated, and the complicated intrigues of the
demagogue rendered harmless. The spirit of liberty is the sovereign
balm for every injury which our institutions may receive.

On the contrary, no care that can be used in the construction of our
Government, no division of powers, no distribution of checks in its
several departments, will prove effectual to keep us a free people
if this spirit is suffered to decay; and decay it will without
constant nurture.

To the neglect of this duty the best historians agree in attributing the
ruin of all the republics with whose existence and fall their
writings have made us acquainted. The same causes will ever produce the
same effects, and as long as the love of power is a dominant passion of
the human bosom, and as long as the understandings of men can be warped
and their affections changed by operations upon their passions and
prejudices, so long will the liberties of a people depend on their own
constant attention to its preservation. The danger to all well-established
free governments arises from the unwillingness of the people to believe
in its existence or from the influence of designing men diverting their
attention from the quarter whence it approaches to a source from which
it can never come.
This is the old trick of those who would usurp the government of their
country. In the name of democracy they speak, warning the people against
the influence of wealth and the danger of aristocracy.

History, ancient and modern, is full of such examples. Caesar became the
master of the Roman people and the senate under the pretense of supporting
the democratic claims of the former against the aristocracy of the
latter; Cromwell, in the character of protector of the liberties of the
people, became the dictator of England, and Bolivar possessed himself
of unlimited power with the title of his country's liberator. There is,
on the contrary, no instance on record of an extensive and well-established
republic being changed into an aristocracy. The tendencies of all
such governments in their decline is to monarchy, and the antagonist
principle to liberty there is the spirit of faction--a spirit which
assumes the character and in times of great excitement imposes itself
upon the people as the genuine spirit of freedom, and, like the false
Christs whose coming was foretold by the Savior, seeks to, and
were it possible would, impose upon the true and most faithful
disciples of liberty.

It is in periods like this that it behooves the people to be most
watchful of those to whom they have intrusted power.
And although there is at times much difficulty in distinguishing the
false from the true spirit, a calm and dispassionate investigation will
detect the counterfeit, as well by the character of its operations as
the results that are produced. The true spirit of liberty, although
devoted, persevering, bold, and uncompromising in principle, that
secured is mild and tolerant and scrupulous as to the means it employs,
whilst the spirit of party, assuming to be that of liberty, is harsh,
vindictive, and intolerant, and totally reckless as to the character
of the allies which it brings to the aid of its cause.

When the genuine spirit of liberty animates the body of a people to a
thorough examination of their affairs, it leads to the excision of
every excrescence which may have fastened itself upon any of the departments
of the government, and restores the system to its pristine health and
beauty. But the reign of an intolerant spirit of party amongst a free
people seldom fails to result in a dangerous accession to the
executive power introduced and established amidst unusual professions of
devotion to democracy.

The foregoing remarks relate almost exclusively to matters connected
with our domestic concerns. It may be proper, however, that I should
give some indications to my fellow-citizens of my proposed course of
conduct in the management of our foreign relations. I assure them,
therefore, that it is my intention to use every means in my power to
preserve the friendly intercourse which now so happily subsists with
every foreign nation, and that although, of course, not well informed
as to the state of pending negotiations with any of them, I see in the
personal characters of the sovereigns, as well as in the mutual
interests of our own and of the governments with which our relations
are most intimate, a pleasing guaranty that the harmony so important
to the interests of their subjects as well as of our citizens will
not be interrupted by the advancement of any claim or pretension
upon their part to which our honor would not permit us to yield.

Long the defender of my country's rights in the field, I trust that
my fellow-citizens will not see in my earnest desire to preserve
peace with foreign powers any indication that their rights will
ever be sacrificed or the honor of the nation tarnished by any
admission on the part of their Chief Magistrate unworthy of their
former glory.

In our intercourse with our aboriginal neighbors the same liberality and
justice which marked the course prescribed to me by two of my
illustrious predecessors when acting under their direction in the
discharge of the duties of superintendent and commissioner shall
be strictly observed.

I can conceive of no more sublime spectacle, none more likely to propitiate
an impartial and common Creator, than a rigid adherence to the
principles of justice on the part of a powerful nation in its
transactions with a weaker and uncivilized people whom circumstances
have placed at its disposal.

Before concluding, fellow-citizens, I must say something to you on the
subject of the parties at this time existing in our country.

To me it appears perfectly clear that the interest of that country
requires that the violence of the spirit by which those parties
are at this time governed must be greatly mitigated, if not entirely
extinguished, or consequences will ensue which are appalling to be
thought of.

If parties in a republic are necessary to secure a degree of
vigilance sufficient to keep the public functionaries within the
bounds of law and duty, at that point their usefulness ends.

Beyond that they become destructive of public virtue, the parent of a
spirit antagonist to that of liberty, and eventually its inevitable
conqueror.

We have examples of republics where the love of country and of liberty
at one time were the dominant passions of the whole mass of citizens,
and yet, with the continuance of the name and forms of free government,
not a vestige of these qualities remaining in the bosoms of any one
of its citizens.

It was the beautiful remark of a distinguished English writer that
"in the Roman senate Octavius had a party and Anthony a party, but the
Commonwealth had none." Yet the senate continued to meet in the temple
of liberty to talk of the sacredness and beauty of the Commonwealth
and gaze at the statues of the elder Brutus and of the Curtii and Decii,
and the people assembled in the forum, not, as in the days of Camillus
and the Scipios, to cast their free votes for annual magistrates
or pass upon the acts of the senate, but to receive from the hands
of the leaders of the respective parties their share of the spoils
and to shout for one or the other, as those collected in Gaul or
Egypt and the lesser Asia would furnish the larger dividend.

The spirit of liberty had fled, and, avoiding the abodes of civilized
man, had sought protection in the wilds of Scythia or Scandinavia;
and so under the operation of the same causes and influences it will fly
from our Capitol and our forums. A calamity so awful, not only to our
country, but to the world, must be deprecated by every patriot and
every tendency to a state of things likely to produce it immediately
checked. Such a tendency has existed--does exist. Always the friend
of my countrymen, never their flatterer, it becomes my duty to say
to them from this high place to which their partiality has exalted
me that there exists in the land a spirit hostile to their best
interests--hostile to liberty itself.

It is a spirit contracted in its views, selfish in its objects. It
looks to the aggrandizement of a few even to the destruction of the
interests of the whole. The entire remedy is with the people.
Something, however, may be effected by the means which they have placed
in my hands.
And this annoyed him, and he began to lose his head.

The driver tried to interfere, but he pinned him down in his seat with
one elbow, and put on full speed. The rush of air in his face, the hum
of the engines, and the light jump of the car beneath him intoxicated
his weak brain. 'Washerwoman, indeed!' he shouted recklessly. 'Ho! ho!
I am the Toad, the motor-car snatcher, the prison-breaker, the Toad who
always escapes! Sit still, and you shall know what driving really
is, for you are in the hands of the famous, the skilful, the entirely
fearless Toad!'

With a cry of horror the whole party rose and flung themselves on him.
'Seize him!' they cried, 'seize the Toad, the wicked animal who
stole our motor-car! Bind him, chain him, drag him to the nearest
police-station! Down with the desperate and dangerous Toad!'

Alas! they should have thought, they ought to have been more prudent,
they should have remembered to stop the motor-car somehow before playing
any pranks of that sort. With a half-turn of the wheel the Toad sent
the car crashing through the low hedge that ran along the roadside. One
mighty bound, a violent shock, and the wheels of the car were churning
up the thick mud of a horse-pond.

Toad found himself flying through the air with the strong upward rush
and delicate curve of a swallow. He liked the motion, and was just
beginning to wonder whether it would go on until he developed wings and
turned into a Toad-bird, when he landed on his back with a thump, in the
soft rich grass of a meadow. Sitting up, he could just see the motor-car
in the pond, nearly submerged; the gentlemen and the driver, encumbered
by their long coats, were floundering helplessly in the water.

He picked himself up rapidly, and set off running across country as hard
as he could, scrambling through hedges, jumping ditches, pounding across
fields, till he was breathless and weary, and had to settle down into
an easy walk. When he had recovered his breath somewhat, and was able to
think calmly, he began to giggle, and from giggling he took to laughing,
and he laughed till he had to sit down under a hedge. 'Ho, ho!' he
cried, in ecstasies of self-admiration, 'Toad again! Toad, as usual,
comes out on the top! Who was it got them to give him a lift? Who
managed to get on the front seat for the sake of fresh air? Who
persuaded them into letting him see if he could drive? Who landed them
all in a horse-pond? Who escaped, flying gaily and unscathed through the
air, leaving the narrow-minded, grudging, timid excursionists in the mud
where they should rightly be? Why, Toad, of course; clever Toad, great
Toad, GOOD Toad!'

Then he burst into song again, and chanted with uplifted voice--

'The motor-car went Poop-poop-poop, As it raced along the road. Who was
it steered it into a pond? Ingenious Mr. Toad!

O, how clever I am! How clever, how clever, how very clev----'

A slight noise at a distance behind him made him turn his head and look.
O horror! O misery! O despair!

About two fields off, a chauffeur in his leather gaiters and two large
rural policemen were visible, running towards him as hard as they could
go!

Poor Toad sprang to his feet and pelted away again, his heart in his
mouth. O, my!' he gasped, as he panted along, 'what an ASS I am! What a
CONCEITED and heedless ass! Swaggering again! Shouting and singing songs
again! Sitting still and gassing again! O my! O my! O my!'

He glanced back, and saw to his dismay that they were gaining on him.
On he ran desperately, but kept looking back, and saw that they still
gained steadily. He did his best, but he was a fat animal, and his legs
were short, and still they gained. He could hear them close behind him
now. Ceasing to heed where he was going, he struggled on blindly and
wildly, looking back over his shoulder at the now triumphant enemy, when
suddenly the earth failed under his feet, he grasped at the air, and,
splash! he found himself head over ears in deep water, rapid water,
water that bore him along with a force he could not contend with; and he
knew that in his blind panic he had run straight into the river!

He rose to the surface and tried to grasp the reeds and the rushes that
grew along the water's edge close under the bank, but the stream was so
strong that it tore them out of his hands. 'O my!' gasped poor Toad,
'if ever I steal a motor-car again! If ever I sing another conceited
song'--then down he went, and came up breathless and spluttering.
Presently he saw that he was approaching a big dark hole in the bank,
just above his head, and as the stream bore him past he reached up with
a paw and caught hold of the edge and held on. Then slowly and with
difficulty he drew himself up out of the water, till at last he was able
to rest his elbows on the edge of the hole. There he remained for some
minutes, puffing and panting, for he was quite exhausted.

As he sighed and blew and stared before him into the dark hole, some
bright small thing shone and twinkled in its depths, moving towards
him. As it approached, a face grew up gradually around it, and it was a
familiar face!

Brown and small, with whiskers.

Grave and round, with neat ears and silky hair.

It was the Water Rat!


XI. 'LIKE SUMMER TEMPESTS CAME HIS TEARS'

The Rat put out a neat little brown paw, gripped Toad firmly by
the scruff of the neck, and gave a great hoist and a pull; and the
water-logged Toad came up slowly but surely over the edge of the hole,
till at last he stood safe and sound in the hall, streaked with mud and
weed to be sure, and with the water streaming off him, but happy and
high-spirited as of old, now that he found himself once more in the
house of a friend, and dodgings and evasions were over, and he could lay
aside a disguise that was unworthy of his position and wanted such a lot
of living up to.

'O, Ratty!' he cried. 'I've been through such times since I saw you
last, you can't think! Such trials, such sufferings, and all so nobly
borne! Then such escapes, such disguises such subterfuges, and all so
cleverly planned and carried out! Been in prison--got out of it, of
course! Been thrown into a canal--swam ashore! Stole a horse--sold him
for a large sum of money! Humbugged everybody--made 'em all do exactly
what I wanted! Oh, I AM a smart Toad, and no mistake! What do you think
my last exploit was? Just hold on till I tell you----'

'Toad,' said the Water Rat, gravely and firmly, 'you go off upstairs
at once, and take off that old cotton rag that looks as if it might
formerly have belonged to some washerwoman, and clean yourself
thoroughly, and put on some of my clothes, and try and come down
looking like a gentleman if you CAN; for a more shabby, bedraggled,
disreputable-looking object than you are I never set eyes on in my whole
life! Now, stop swaggering and arguing, and be off! I'll have something
to say to you later!'

Toad was at first inclined to stop and do some talking back at him. He
had had enough of being ordered about when he was in prison, and here
was the thing being begun all over again, apparently; and by a Rat,
too! However, he caught sight of himself in the looking-glass over the
hat-stand, with the rusty black bonnet perched rakishly over one eye,
and he changed his mind and went very quickly and humbly upstairs to the
Rat's dressing-room. There he had a thorough wash and brush-up, changed
his clothes, and stood for a long time before the glass, contemplating
himself with pride and pleasure, and thinking what utter idiots all the
people must have been to have ever mistaken him for one moment for a
washerwoman.

By the time he came down again luncheon was on the table, and very glad
Toad was to see it, for he had been through some trying experiences and
had taken much hard exercise since the excellent breakfast provided for
him by the gipsy. While they ate Toad told the Rat all his adventures,
dwelling chiefly on his own cleverness, and presence of mind in
emergencies, and cunning in tight places; and rather making out that he
had been having a gay and highly-coloured experience. But the more he
talked and boasted, the more grave and silent the Rat became.

When at last Toad had talked himself to a standstill, there was silence
for a while; and then the Rat said, 'Now, Toady, I don't want to give
you pain, after all you've been through already; but, seriously, don't
you see what an awful ass you've been making of yourself? As a
matter of fact he really gave me lessons, which, I may say in advance,
were kept up even after the need of them no longer existed, and, peculiar
as these lessons were, I learned more from them than from many a famous
teacher. My father picked out quite arbitrarily the things he had
long known by heart or, perhaps, had just read the same day, and
vitalized geography with history, always, of course, in such a way
that in the end his favorite themes were given due prominence.
Be a cripple, if you think it's exciting; be a
bankrupt, for a change, if you've set your mind on it: but why choose
to be a convict? When are you going to be sensible, and think of your
friends, and try and be a credit to them? Do you suppose it's any
pleasure to me, for instance, to hear animals saying, as I go about,
that I'm the chap that keeps company with gaol-birds?'

Now, it was a very comforting point in Toad's character that he was a
thoroughly good-hearted animal and never minded being jawed by those
who were his real friends. And even when most set upon a thing, he was
always able to see the other side of the question. So although, while
the Rat was talking so seriously, he kept saying to himself mutinously,
'But it WAS fun, though! Awful fun!' and making strange suppressed
noises inside him, k-i-ck-ck-ck, and poop-p-p, and other sounds
resembling stifled snorts, or the opening of soda-water bottles, yet
when the Rat had quite finished, he heaved a deep sigh and said, very
nicely and humbly, 'Quite right, Ratty! How SOUND you always are! Yes,
I've been a conceited old ass, I can quite see that; but now I'm going
to be a good Toad, and not do it any more. As for motor-cars, I've not
been at all so keen about them since my last ducking in that river of
yours. The fact is, while I was hanging on to the edge of your hole
and getting my breath, I had a sudden idea--a really brilliant
idea--connected with motor-boats--there, there! don't take on so, old
chap, and stamp, and upset things; it was only an idea, and we won't
talk any more about it now. We'll have our coffee, AND a smoke, and a
quiet chat, and then I'm going to stroll quietly down to Toad Hall, and
get into clothes of my own, and set things going again on the old lines.
I've had enough of adventures. I shall lead a quiet, steady, respectable
life, pottering about my property, and improving it, and doing a little
landscape gardening at times. There will always be a bit of dinner for
my friends when they come to see me; and I shall keep a pony-chaise to
jog about the country in, just as I used to in the good old days, before
I got restless, and wanted to DO things.'

'Stroll quietly down to Toad Hall?' cried the Rat, greatly excited.
'What are you talking about? Do you mean to say you haven't HEARD?'

'Heard what?' said Toad, turning rather pale. 'Go on, Ratty! Quick!
Don't spare me! What haven't I heard?'

'Do you mean to tell me,' shouted the Rat, thumping with his little
fist upon the table, 'that you've heard nothing about the Stoats and
Weasels?'

What, the Wild Wooders?' cried Toad, trembling in every limb. 'No, not a
word! What have they been doing?'

'--And how they've been and taken Toad Hall?' continued the Rat.

Toad leaned his elbows on the table, and his chin on his paws; and a
large tear welled up in each of his eyes, overflowed and splashed on the
table, plop! plop!

'Go on, Ratty,' he murmured presently; 'tell me all. The worst is over.
I am an animal again. I can bear it.'

'When you--got--into that--that--trouble of yours,' said the Rat, slowly
and impressively; 'I mean, when you--disappeared from society for a
time, over that misunderstanding about a--a machine, you know--'

Toad merely nodded.

'Well, it was a good deal talked about down here, naturally,' continued
the Rat, 'not only along the river-side, but even in the Wild Wood.
Animals took sides, as always happens. The River-bankers stuck up for
you, and said you had been infamously treated, and there was no justice
to be had in the land nowadays. But the Wild Wood animals said hard
things, and served you right, and it was time this sort of thing was
stopped. And they got very cocky, and went about saying you were done
for this time! You would never come back again, never, never!'

Toad nodded once more, keeping silence.

'That's the sort of little beasts they are,' the Rat went on. 'But Mole
and Badger, they stuck out, through thick and thin, that you would come
back again soon, somehow. They didn't know exactly how, but somehow!'

Toad began to sit up in his chair again, and to smirk a little.

'They argued from history,' continued the Rat. 'They said that
no criminal laws had ever been known to prevail against cheek and
plausibility such as yours, combined with the power of a long purse. So
they arranged to move their things in to Toad Hall, and sleep there, and
keep it aired, and have it all ready for you when you turned up. They
didn't guess what was going to happen, of course; still, they had their
suspicions of the Wild Wood animals. Now I come to the most painful and
tragic part of my story. One dark night--it was a VERY dark night, and
blowing hard, too, and raining simply cats and dogs--a band of weasels,
armed to the teeth, crept silently up the carriage-drive to the front
entrance. Simultaneously, a body of desperate ferrets, advancing through
the kitchen-garden, possessed themselves of the backyard and offices;
while a company of skirmishing stoats who stuck at nothing occupied the
conservatory and the billiard-room, and held the French windows opening
on to the lawn.

'The Mole and the Badger were sitting by the fire in the smoking-room,
telling stories and suspecting nothing, for it wasn't a night for any
animals to be out in, when those bloodthirsty villains broke down the
doors and rushed in upon them from every side. They made the best fight
they could, but what was the good? They were unarmed, and taken by
surprise, and what can two animals do against hundreds? They took and
beat them severely with sticks, those two poor faithful creatures,
and turned them out into the cold and the wet, with many insulting and
uncalled-for remarks!'

Here the unfeeling Toad broke into a snigger, and then pulled himself
together and tried to look particularly solemn.

'And the Wild Wooders have been living in Toad Hall ever since,'
continued the Rat; 'and going on simply anyhow! Lying in bed half the
day, and breakfast at all hours, and the place in such a mess (I'm told)
it's not fit to be seen! Eating your grub, and drinking your drink, and
making bad jokes about you, and singing vulgar songs, about--well, about
prisons and magistrates, and policemen; horrid personal songs, with no
humour in them. And they're telling the tradespeople and everybody that
they've come to stay for good.'

'O, have they!' said Toad getting up and seizing a stick. 'I'll jolly
soon see about that!'

'It's no good, Toad!' called the Rat after him. 'You'd better come back
and sit down; you'll only get into trouble.'

But the Toad was off, and there was no holding him. He marched rapidly
down the road, his stick over his shoulder, fuming and muttering to
himself in his anger, till he got near his front gate, when suddenly
there popped up from behind the palings a long yellow ferret with a gun.

'Who comes there?' said the ferret sharply.

'Stuff and nonsense!' said Toad, very angrily. 'What do you mean by
talking like that to me? Come out of that at once, or I'll----'

The ferret said never a word, but he brought his gun up to his shoulder.
Toad prudently dropped flat in the road, and BANG! a bullet whistled
over his head.

The startled Toad scrambled to his feet and scampered off down the road
as hard as he could; and as he ran he heard the ferret laughing and
other horrid thin little laughs taking it up and carrying on the sound.

He went back, very crestfallen, and told the Water Rat.

'What did I tell you?' said the Rat. 'It's no good. They've got sentries
posted, and they are all armed. You must just wait.'

Still, Toad was not inclined to give in all at once. So he got out the
boat, and set off rowing up the river to where the garden front of Toad
Hall came down to the waterside.

Arriving within sight of his old home, he rested on his oars and
surveyed the land cautiously. All seemed very peaceful and deserted and
quiet. He could see the whole front of Toad Hall, glowing in the evening
sunshine, the pigeons settling by twos and threes along the straight
line of the roof; the garden, a blaze of flowers; the creek that led
up to the boat-house, the little wooden bridge that crossed it; all
tranquil, uninhabited, apparently waiting for his return. He would try
the boat-house first, he thought. Very warily he paddled up to the mouth
of the creek, and was just passing under the bridge, when ... CRASH!

A great stone, dropped from above, smashed through the bottom of the
boat. It filled and sank, and Toad found himself struggling in deep
water. Looking up, he saw two stoats leaning over the parapet of the
bridge and watching him with great glee. 'It will be your head next
time, Toady!' they called out to him. The indignant Toad swam to shore,
while the stoats laughed and laughed, supporting each other, and laughed
again, till they nearly had two fits--that is, one fit each, of course.

The Toad retraced his weary way on foot, and related his disappointing
experiences to the Water Rat once more.

'Well, WHAT did I tell you?' said the Rat very crossly. 'And, now, look
here! See what you've been and done! Lost me my boat that I was so fond
of, that's what you've done! And simply ruined that nice suit of clothes
that I lent you! Really, Toad, of all the trying animals--I wonder you
manage to keep any friends at all!'

The Toad saw at once how wrongly and foolishly he had acted. He admitted
his errors and wrong-headedness and made a full apology to Rat for
losing his boat and spoiling his clothes. And he wound up by saying,
with that frank self-surrender which always disarmed his friend's
criticism and won them back to his side, 'Ratty! I see that I have been
a headstrong and a wilful Toad! Henceforth, believe me, I will be humble
and submissive, and will take no action without your kind advice and
full approval!'

'If that is really so,' said the good-natured Rat, already appeased,
'then my advice to you is, considering the lateness of the hour, to sit
down and have your supper, which will be on the table in a minute, and
be very patient. For I am convinced that we can do nothing until we
have seen the Mole and the Badger, and heard their latest news, and held
conference and taken their advice in this difficult matter.'

'Oh, ah, yes, of course, the Mole and the Badger,' said Toad, lightly.
'What's become of them, the dear fellows? I had forgotten all about
them.'

'Well may you ask!' said the Rat reproachfully. 'While you were riding
about the country in expensive motor-cars, and galloping proudly on
blood-horses, and breakfasting on the fat of the land, those two poor
devoted animals have been camping out in the open, in every sort of
weather, living very rough by day and lying very hard by night; watching
over your house, patrolling your boundaries, keeping a constant eye on
the stoats and the weasels, scheming and planning and contriving how to
get your property back for you. You don't deserve to have such true and
loyal friends, Toad, you don't, really. Some day, when it's too late,
you'll be sorry you didn't value them more while you had them!'

'I'm an ungrateful beast, I know,' sobbed Toad, shedding bitter tears.
'Let me go out and find them, out into the cold, dark night, and share
their hardships, and try and prove by----Hold on a bit! Surely I heard
the chink of dishes on a tray! Supper's here at last, hooray! Come on,
Ratty!'

The Rat remembered that poor Toad had been on prison fare for a
considerable time, and that large allowances had therefore to be made.
He followed him to the table accordingly, and hospitably encouraged him
in his gallant efforts to make up for past privations.

They had just finished their meal and resumed their arm-chairs, when
there came a heavy knock at the door.

Toad was nervous, but the Rat, nodding mysteriously at him, went
straight up to the door and opened it, and in walked Mr. Badger.

He had all the appearance of one who for some nights had been kept away
from home and all its little comforts and conveniences. His shoes were
covered with mud, and he was looking very rough and touzled; but then
he had never been a very smart man, the Badger, at the best of times. He
came solemnly up to Toad, shook him by the paw, and said, 'Welcome home,
Toad! Alas! what am I saying? Home, indeed! This is a poor home-coming.
Unhappy Toad!' Then he turned his back on him, sat down to the table,
drew his chair up, and helped himself to a large slice of cold pie.

Toad was quite alarmed at this very serious and portentous style of
greeting; but the Rat whispered to him, 'Never mind; don't take any
notice; and don't say anything to him just yet. He's always rather low
and despondent when he's wanting his victuals. This done, Othello-Tanee
attempted to strangle her, and was in a fair way to succeed, when
her loving subjects came to her rescue.

So heinous a crime could not be overlooked, and Tanee, was banished
to his native island; but after a short time he declared his penitence,
made _amende honorable_, and was restored to favour. He does not
very often venture to thwart the will of his royal wife, much less
to raise his hand against her sacred person, but submits with
exemplary patience to her caprices and abuse, and even to the manual
admonitions she not unfrequently bestows upon him.

Upon the whole, life, at the Calabooza was not very disagreeable. The
prisoners, now only nominally so, had little to complain of, except
occasional short commons, arising not from unwillingness, but from
disability, on the part of the kind-hearted natives, to satisfy
the cravings of the hungry whalers, whose appetites were remarkable,
especially that of lanky Doctor Long Ghost.

The doctor was a stickler for quality as well as quantity; the memory of
his claret and beccafico days still clung to him, like the scent
of the roses to Tom Moore's broken gallipot: he was curious in
condiments, and whilst devouring, grumbled at the unseasoned viands
of Tahiti.

Cayenne and Harvey abounded not in those latitudes, but pepper and
salt were on board the Julia, and the doctor prevailed on Rope Yarn to
bring him a supply. "This he placed in a small leather wallet, a
monkey bag (so called by sailors) usually worn as a purse about the neck.
'In my poor opinion,' said Long Ghost, as he tucked the wallet out
of sight, 'it behoves a stranger in Tahiti to have his knife in
readiness, and his castor slung.'"

And thus equipped, the doctor and his brethren in captivity rambled over
the verdant slopes and through the cool groves of Tahiti, bathed in
the mountain streams, and luxuriated in orange orchards, where
"the trees formed a dense shade, spreading overhead a dark, rustling
vault, groined with boughs, and studded here and there with the
ripened spheres, like gilded balls."

Then they had plenty of society; native visitors flocked to see them, and
Doctor Johnson, a resident English physician, was constant in his attendance,
knowing that the Consul must pay his bill.
Three French priests also called upon them, one of whom proved to
be no Frenchman, but a portly, handsome, good-humoured Irishman,
well known and much disliked by the Polynesian protestant missionaries.

A strong attempt was made by Guy and Wilson to get the men to do
duty.

A schooner was about to sail for Sydney, and they were threatened to
be sent thither for trial. They still refused to hand rope or break
biscuit on board the Julia. Long Ghost made some cutting remarks on the
captain; and the sailors, who had been taken down to the Consul's
office for examination, began to bully, and talked of carrying off
Consul and Captain to bear them company in the Calabooza.

The same ill success attended subsequent attempts, until Captain Guy was
compelled to look out for another crew, which he obtained with difficulty,
and by a considerable advance of hard dollars. And at last, "It was
Sunday in Tahiti, and a glorious morning, when Captain Bob, waddling
into the Calabooza, startled us by announcing, 'Ah, my boy--shippee
you, harree--maky sail!'

in other words, the Julia was off," and had taken her stores of old biscuit
with her: so the next morning the inmates of the Calabooza were without
rations.

The Consul would supply none, and it was pretty evident that he rather
desired the departure of the obstinate seamen from that part of
the island.

The whole of his proceedings with regard to them had served but to
render him ridiculous, and he wished them out of his neighbourhood;
but the ex-prisoners found themselves pretty comfortable, and
preferred remaining.

They were better off than they had for some time been, for Jermin--not
such a bad fellow, after all--had sent them their chests ashore; and
these, besides supplying them with sundry necessaries, gave them
immense importance in Tahitian eyes.

They had been kindly treated before, but now they were courted and flattered,
like younger sons in marching regiments, who suddenly step into the
family acres. The natives crowded round them, eager to swear eternal
friendship, according to an old Polynesian custom, once universal in the
islands, but that has fallen into considerable disuse, except when
something is to be gained by its observance. A gentleman of the name
of Kooloo fixed his affections upon Typee--or rather upon his goods
and chattels; for when he had wheedled him out of a regatta shirt,
and other small pieces of finery, he transferred his affections to
a newly-arrived sailor, whose chest was better lined, and who
bestowed on him a love-token, in the shape of a heavy pea-jacket.

In this garment, closely buttoned up, Kooloo took morning promenades, with
the tropical sun glaring down upon him.

He frequently met his former friend, but passed him with a careless
"How d'ye do?" which presently dwindled into a nod. "In one week's
time," says poor Typee, "he gave me the cut direct, and lounged by without
even nodding.

He must have taken me for part of the landscape."
After a while the contents of the chests, and even the chests
themselves--esteemed by the Tahitians most valuable pieces of
furniture--were given or bartered away, and, as the Consul still
refused them rations, the sailors knew not how to live.

The natives helped them as much as they could, but their larders
were scantily furnished, and they grew tired of feeding fifteen hungry
idlers. So at last the latter made a morning call upon the Consul, who,
being unwilling to withdraw, and equally so to press, charges which
he knew would not be sustained, refused to have any thing to say to
them.

Thereupon some of the party, strong in principle and resolution, and seeing
how grievous an annoyance their presence was to their enemy, Wilson,
swore to abide near him and never to leave him.

Others, less obstinate or more impatient of a change, resolved to
decamp from the Calabooza. The first to depart were Typee and Long
Ghost.

They had received intelligence of a new plantation in Imeco, recently
formed by foreigners, who wanted white labourers, and were expected
at Papeetee to seek them. With these men they took service under the
names of Peter and Paul, at wages of fifteen silver dollars a
month; and, after an affecting separation from their shipmates--whose
respectable character may be judged of by the fact, that one of
them picked Long Ghost's pocket in the very act of embracing
him,--they sailed away for Imeco, and arrived without accident in
the valley of Martair, where the plantation was situate.

The chapters recording their stay here are amongst the very best in the
book, full of rich, quiet fun. Typee gives a capital description of
his employers.

They were two in number, both "whole-souled fellows; one was a tall robust
Yankee, born in the backwoods of Maine, sallow, and with a long face;
the other, a short little Cockney who had first clapped his eyes
on the Monument."

Zeke the Yankee, had christened his comrade "Shorty;" and Shorty looked
up to him with respect, and yielded to him in most things. Both showed
themselves well disposed towards their new labourers, whom they at once
discovered to be superior to their station. And they soon found their
society so agreeable, that they were willing to keep them to do little
more than nominal work. As to making them efficient farm servants,
they quickly gave up that idea. As a sailor, Typee had little fancy
for husbandry; and the doctor found his long back terribly in his way
when requested to dig potatoes and root up stumps, under a sun which,
as Shorty said, "was hot enough to melt the nose hoff a brass monkey."
Long Ghost very soon gave in; the extraction of a single tree-root
settled him; he pleaded illness, and retired to his hammock, but
was considerably vexed when he heard the Yankee propose a bullock
hunting expedition, in which, as a sick man, he could not decently
take part.

This was only the prologue to his annoyances. Musquitoes, unknown in
Tahiti, abound in Imeeo. They were brought there, according to a
native tradition, by one Nathan Coleman, of Nantucket, who, in
revenge for some fancied grievance, towed a rotten water-cask ashore,
and left it in a neglected _taro_ patch, where the ground was moist
and warm.

Musquitoes were the result. "When tormented by them, I found much relief
in coupling the word Coleman with another of one syllable, and
pronouncing them together energetically." The musquito chapter is very
amusing, showing the various comical and ingenious manoeuvres of the
friends to avoid their tormentors, and obtain a night's sleep. At last
they entered a fishing canoe, paddled some distance from shore,
and dropped the native anchor, a stone secured to a rope.

They were awakened in the morning by the motion of their boat. Zeke
was wading in the shallow water, and towing them from a reef towards
which they had drifted. "The water-sprites had rolled our stone out of
its noose, and we had floated away." This was a narrow escape, but
nevertheless they stuck to their floating bedstead as the only
possible sleeping place. A day's successful hunting, followed
by a famous supper and jollification under a banian-tree, put the doctor
in good humour, and he made himself vastly agreeable.

The natives beheld his waggish pranks with infinite admiration, and
Zeke looked upon him with particular favour; so much so, that when
upon the following morning an order came from a ship at Papeetee,
for a supply of potatoes, he almost hesitated to tell funny Peter
to assist in digging them up.

But the emergency pressed, and the work must be done. So Peter and Paul
were set to unearth the vegetables.
This was no very cruel task, for "the rich tawny soil seemed specially
adapted to the crop; the great yellow murphies rolling out of the
hills like eggs from a nest."

But when they were dug up, they had to be carried to the beach; and
to this part of the business the lazy adventurers had a special
dislike, although Zeke kindly provided them, to lighten their toil,
with what he called the barrel machine--a sort of rural sedan, in
which the servants carried their loads with comparative ease, whilst
their employers sweated under shouldered hampers.

But no alleviation could reconcile the sailor and the physician to
this novel and unpleasant labour, and the potato-digging was the
last piece of work, deserving the name, that either of them did.

A few days afterwards they gave their masters warning, greatly to
the vexation of Zeke, although he received the notice--with true
Yankee imperturbability.

He proposed that Long Ghost, who, after the hunt, had shown,
considerable culinary skill, should assume the office of cook, and
that Paul-Typee should only work when it suited him, which would
not have been very often.

The offer was friendly and favourable, but it was refused. A hospitable
invitation to remain as guests as long as was convenient to them,
was likewise rejected, and, bent upon a ramble, the restless
adventurers left the vale of Martair.

Even greater inducements would probably have been insufficient to keep
them there. They had been so long on the rove, that change of scene had
become essential to their happiness. The doctor, especially, was anxious
to be off to Tamai, an inland village on the borders of a lake, where
the fruits were the finest, and the women the most beautiful and
unsophisticated in all the Society Islands.

Epicurean Long Ghost had set his mind upon visiting this terrestrial
paradise, and thither his steady chum willingly accompanied him. It
was a day's journey on foot, allowing time for dinner and siesta; and
the path lay through wood and ravine, unpeopled save by wild cattle.
About noon they reached the heart of the island, thus pleasantly
described. "It was a green, cool hollow among the mountains, into
which we at last descended with a bound. The place was gushing with a
hundred springs, and shaded over with great solemn trees, on whose mossy
boles the moisture stood in beads." There is something delightfully
hydropathic in these lines; they cool one like a shower-bath. He is a
prime fellow, this common sailor Melville, at such scraps of description,
terse and true, placing the scene before us in ten words. In long
yarns he indulges not, but of such happy touches as the above, we could
quote a score. We have not room, either for them, or for an account of
the valley of Tamai, its hospitable inhabitants, and its heathenish
dances, performed in secret, and in dread of the missionaries, by
whom such saturnalia are forbidden.

The place was altogether so pleasant, that the doctor and his friend
entertained serious thoughts of settling there, or at least of making
a long stay, when one morning they were put to flight by the arrival
of strangers, said to be missionaries, with whom, vagrants as they were,
they had no wish to fall in. So they returned to their friend Zeke,
nursing new and ambitious projects. They had no intention of remaining
with the good-hearted Yankee, but merely paid him a flying visit, and
that with an interested motive. What they wanted of him was this.
Although feeling themselves gentlemen every inch, they were not
always able to convince the world of their respectability.
So they resolved to have a passport, and pitched upon Zeke
to manufacture it, he being well known and much respected
in Imeeo. Zeke was gratified by the compliment, and set to work with
a rooster's quill, and a piece of dirty paper.

"Evidently he was not accustomed to composition; for his literary throes
were so violent, that the doctor suggested that some sort of a Cæsarian
operation might be necessary. The precious paper was at last finished;
and a great curiosity it was. We were much diverted with his reasons for
not dating it. 'In this here damned climate,' he observed, 'a feller
can't keep the run of the months, no how; 'cause there's no seasons,
no summer and winter to go by. One's etarnally thinking it's always July,
it's so pesky hot.'

A passport provided, we cast about for some means of getting to
Taloo."

The decline of the Tahitian monarchy--the degradation of the regal
house of Pomaree, is painful to contemplate. The queen still wears a
crown--a tinsel one, received as a present from her sister-sovereign
of England,--she has also a court and a palace, such as they are;
but her power is little more than nominal, her exchequer seldom
otherwise than empty.

Typee draws a touching contrast between times past and present.
"'I'm a greater man than King George,' said the incorrigible young
Otoo, to the first missionaries; 'he rides on a horse and I on a
man.'

Such was the case. He travelled post through his dominions on the shoulders
of his subjects, and relays of immortal beings were provided in all the
valleys. But, alas! how times have changed! how transient human greatness!
Some years since, Pomaree Vahinee I., granddaughter of the proud
Otoo, went into the laundry business, publicly soliciting, by her
agents, the washing of the linen belonging to officers of ships
touching in her harbours."

Into the court of this washerwoman-queen, Typee and Long Ghost were
exceedingly anxious to penetrate.

Vague ideas of favour and preferment haunted their brains. During their
Polynesian cruise, they had seen many instances of rapid advancement;
vagabond foreigners, of all nations, domesticated in the families
of chiefs and kings, and sometimes married to their daughters and
sharing their power.

At one of the Tonga islands, a scamp of a Welshman officiated as
cupbearer to the king of the cannibals. The monarch of the Sandwich islands
has three foreigners about his court--a Negro to beat the drum, a
wooden-legged Portuguese to play the fiddle, and Mordecai, a
juggler, to amuse his majesty with cups and balls and sleight of
hand.

On the Marquesan island of Hivarhoo, they had found an English sailor
who had attained to the highest dignity in the country. He had deserted
from a merchant ship, and at once set up, on his own hook, as an
independent sovereign, without dominions, but by disposition most
belligerent.

A musket and a store of cartridges were his whole possessions; but
in a land where war was rife, carried on with the primitive weapons
of spear and javelin, they were sufficiently important to make a
native prince covet his alliance.

His first battle was a decisive victory, a perfect Waterloo, and he became
the Wellington of Hivarhoo, receiving, as reward for his distinguished
services, the hand of a princess, and a splendid dowry of hogs, mats,
and other produce. To conform to the prejudices of his new family, he
allowed himself to be tattooed, tabooed, and otherwise paganized, becoming
as big a savage as any in the island. A blue shark adorned his forehead;
a broad bar, of the same colour, traversed his face. The tabooing was
a less ornamental but more decidedly useful formality, for by it his
person was declared sacred and inviolable.

Typee and his medical friend had a strong prejudice against cerulean sharks
and the like embellishments; but if these could be dispensed with, they
felt no disinclination to form part of Pomaree's household.

They had not quite made up their minds what office would best suit them,
but their circumstances were unprosperous, and they resolved not to
be particular.
First, there was a belt to go round
each animal, and then a sword to be stuck into each belt, and then
a cutlass on the other side to balance it. Then a pair of pistols, a
policeman's truncheon, several sets of handcuffs, some bandages and
sticking-plaster, and a flask and a sandwich-case. The Badger laughed
good-humouredly and said, 'All right, Ratty! It amuses you and it
doesn't hurt me. I'm going to do all I've got to do with this here
stick.' But the Rat only said, 'PLEASE, Badger. You know I shouldn't
like you to blame me afterwards and say I had forgotten ANYTHING!'

When all was quite ready, the Badger took a dark lantern in one paw,
grasped his great stick with the other, and said, 'Now then, follow me!
Mole first, 'cos I'm very pleased with him; Rat next; Toad last. And
look here, Toady! Don't you chatter so much as usual, or you'll be sent
back, as sure as fate!'

The Toad was so anxious not to be left out that he took up the inferior
position assigned to him without a murmur, and the animals set off. The
Badger led them along by the river for a little way, and then suddenly
swung himself over the edge into a hole in the river-bank, a little
above the water. The Mole and the Rat followed silently, swinging
themselves successfully into the hole as they had seen the Badger do;
but when it came to Toad's turn, of course he managed to slip and fall
into the water with a loud splash and a squeal of alarm. He was hauled
out by his friends, rubbed down and wrung out hastily, comforted, and
set on his legs; but the Badger was seriously angry, and told him that
the very next time he made a fool of himself he would most certainly be
left behind.

So at last they were in the secret passage, and the cutting-out
expedition had really begun!

It was cold, and dark, and damp, and low, and narrow, and poor Toad
began to shiver, partly from dread of what might be before him, partly
because he was wet through. The lantern was far ahead, and he could not
help lagging behind a little in the darkness. Then he heard the Rat call
out warningly, 'COME on, Toad!' and a terror seized him of being left
behind, alone in the darkness, and he 'came on' with such a rush that
he upset the Rat into the Mole and the Mole into the Badger, and for a
moment all was confusion. The Badger thought they were being attacked
from behind, and, as there was no room to use a stick or a cutlass, drew
a pistol, and was on the point of putting a bullet into Toad. When he
found out what had really happened he was very angry indeed, and said,
'Now this time that tiresome Toad SHALL be left behind!'

But Toad whimpered, and the other two promised that they would be
answerable for his good conduct, and at last the Badger was pacified,
and the procession moved on; only this time the Rat brought up the rear,
with a firm grip on the shoulder of Toad.

So they groped and shuffled along, with their ears pricked up and their
paws on their pistols, till at last the Badger said, 'We ought by now to
be pretty nearly under the Hall.'

Then suddenly they heard, far away as it might be, and yet apparently
nearly over their heads, a confused murmur of sound, as if people were
shouting and cheering and stamping on the floor and hammering on tables.
The Toad's nervous terrors all returned, but the Badger only remarked
placidly, 'They ARE going it, the Weasels!'

The passage now began to slope upwards; they groped onward a little
further, and then the noise broke out again, quite distinct this time,
and very close above them. 'Ooo-ray-ooray-oo-ray-ooray!' they heard, and
the stamping of little feet on the floor, and the clinking of glasses
as little fists pounded on the table. 'WHAT a time they're having!' said
the Badger. 'Come on!' They hurried along the passage till it came to a
full stop, and they found themselves standing under the trap-door that
led up into the butler's pantry.

Such a tremendous noise was going on in the banqueting-hall that there
was little danger of their being overheard. The Badger said, 'Now, boys,
all together!' and the four of them put their shoulders to the trap-door
and heaved it back. Hoisting each other up, they found themselves
standing in the pantry, with only a door between them and the
banqueting-hall, where their unconscious enemies were carousing.

The noise, as they emerged from the passage, was simply deafening. At
last, as the cheering and hammering slowly subsided, a voice could
be made out saying, 'Well, I do not propose to detain you much
longer'--(great applause)--'but before I resume my seat'--(renewed
cheering)--'I should like to say one word about our kind host, Mr. Toad.
We all know Toad!'--(great laughter)--'GOOD Toad, MODEST Toad, HONEST
Toad!' (shrieks of merriment).

'Only just let me get at him!' muttered Toad, grinding his teeth.

'Hold hard a minute!' said the Badger, restraining him with difficulty.
'Get ready, all of you!'

'--Let me sing you a little song,' went on the voice, 'which I have
composed on the subject of Toad'--(prolonged applause).

Then the Chief Weasel--for it was he--began in a high, squeaky voice--

'Toad he went a-pleasuring Gaily down the street--'


The Badger drew himself up, took a firm grip of his stick with both
paws, glanced round at his comrades, and cried--

'The hour is come! Follow me!'

And flung the door open wide.

My!

What a squealing and a squeaking and a screeching filled the air!

Well might the terrified weasels dive under the tables and spring madly
up at the windows! Well might the ferrets rush wildly for the fireplace
and get hopelessly jammed in the chimney! Well might tables and chairs
be upset, and glass and china be sent crashing on the floor, in the
panic of that terrible moment when the four Heroes strode wrathfully
into the room! The mighty Badger, his whiskers bristling, his great
cudgel whistling through the air; Mole, black and grim, brandishing his
stick and shouting his awful war-cry, 'A Mole! A Mole!' Rat; desperate
and determined, his belt bulging with weapons of every age and every
variety; Toad, frenzied with excitement and injured pride, swollen to
twice his ordinary size, leaping into the air and emitting Toad-whoops
that chilled them to the marrow! 'Toad he went a-pleasuring!' he yelled.
'I'LL pleasure 'em!' and he went straight for the Chief Weasel. They
were but four in all, but to the panic-stricken weasels the hall seemed
full of monstrous animals, grey, black, brown and yellow, whooping and
flourishing enormous cudgels; and they broke and fled with squeals
of terror and dismay, this way and that, through the windows, up the
chimney, anywhere to get out of reach of those terrible sticks.

The affair was soon over. Up and down, the whole length of the hall,
strode the four Friends, whacking with their sticks at every head that
showed itself; and in five minutes the room was cleared. Through the
broken windows the shrieks of terrified weasels escaping across the lawn
were borne faintly to their ears; on the floor lay prostrate some dozen
or so of the enemy, on whom the Mole was busily engaged in fitting
handcuffs. The Badger, resting from his labours, leant on his stick and
wiped his honest brow.

'Mole,' he said,' 'you're the best of fellows! Just cut along outside
and look after those stoat-sentries of yours, and see what they're
doing. I've an idea that, thanks to you, we shan't have much trouble
from them to-night!'

The Mole vanished promptly through a window; and the Badger bade the
other two set a table on its legs again, pick up knives and forks and
plates and glasses from the debris on the floor, and see if they could
find materials for a supper. 'I want some grub, I do,' he said, in that
rather common way he had of speaking. 'Stir your stumps, Toad, and look
lively! We've got your house back for you, and you don't offer us so
much as a sandwich.' Toad felt rather hurt that the Badger didn't say
pleasant things to him, as he had to the Mole, and tell him what a
fine fellow he was, and how splendidly he had fought; for he was rather
particularly pleased with himself and the way he had gone for the Chief
Weasel and sent him flying across the table with one blow of his stick.
But he bustled about, and so did the Rat, and soon they found some guava
jelly in a glass dish, and a cold chicken, a tongue that had hardly
been touched, some trifle, and quite a lot of lobster salad; and in the
pantry they came upon a basketful of French rolls and any quantity of
cheese, butter, and celery. They were just about to sit down when the
Mole clambered in through the window, chuckling, with an armful of
rifles.

'It's all over,' he reported. 'From what I can make out, as soon as the
stoats, who were very nervous and jumpy already, heard the shrieks and
the yells and the uproar inside the hall, some of them threw down their
rifles and fled. The others stood fast for a bit, but when the weasels
came rushing out upon them they thought they were betrayed; and the
stoats grappled with the weasels, and the weasels fought to get away,
and they wrestled and wriggled and punched each other, and rolled
over and over, till most of 'em rolled into the river! They've all
disappeared by now, one way or another; and I've got their rifles. So
that's all right!'

'Excellent and deserving animal!' said the Badger, his mouth full of
chicken and trifle. 'Now, there's just one more thing I want you to do,
Mole, before you sit down to your supper along of us; and I wouldn't
trouble you only I know I can trust you to see a thing done, and I wish
I could say the same of every one I know. I'd send Rat, if he wasn't a
poet. I want you to take those fellows on the floor there upstairs with
you, and have some bedrooms cleaned out and tidied up and made really
comfortable. See that they sweep UNDER the beds, and put clean sheets
and pillow-cases on, and turn down one corner of the bed-clothes, just
as you know it ought to be done; and have a can of hot water, and clean
towels, and fresh cakes of soap, put in each room. And then you can give
them a licking a-piece, if it's any satisfaction to you, and put them
out by the back-door, and we shan't see any more of THEM, I fancy. And
then come along and have some of this cold tongue. It's first rate. I'm
very pleased with you, Mole!'

The goodnatured Mole picked up a stick, formed his prisoners up in a
line on the floor, gave them the order 'Quick march!' and led his squad
off to the upper floor. After a time, he appeared again, smiling, and
said that every room was ready, and as clean as a new pin. 'And I didn't
have to lick them, either,' he added. 'I thought, on the whole, they had
had licking enough for one night, and the weasels, when I put the point
to them, quite agreed with me, and said they wouldn't think of troubling
me. They were very penitent, and said they were extremely sorry for
what they had done, but it was all the fault of the Chief Weasel and the
stoats, and if ever they could do anything for us at any time to make
up, we had only got to mention it. So I gave them a roll a-piece, and
let them out at the back, and off they ran, as hard as they could!'

Then the Mole pulled his chair up to the table, and pitched into the
cold tongue; and Toad, like the gentleman he was, put all his jealousy
from him, and said heartily, 'Thank you kindly, dear Mole, for all
your pains and trouble tonight, and especially for your cleverness this
morning!' The Badger was pleased at that, and said, 'There spoke my
brave Toad!' So they finished their supper in great joy and contentment,
and presently retired to rest between clean sheets, safe in Toad's
ancestral home, won back by matchless valour, consummate strategy, and a
proper handling of sticks.

Jenkison, who thought things were very well as they were; and the
Reverend Doctor Gaster, who, though neither a philosopher nor a man of
taste, had won the squire's fancy by a learned dissertation on the
art of stuffing a turkey.

In the midst of an animated conversation the coach stopped, and the
coachman, opening the door, vociferated: "Breakfast, gentlemen," a sound
which so gladdened the ears of the divine, that the alacrity with which
he sprang from the vehicle distorted his ankle, and he was obliged to
limp into the inn between Mr. Escot and Mr. Jenkison, the former observing
that he ought to look for nothing but evil and, therefore, should
not be surprised at this little accident; the latter remarking that the
comfort of a good breakfast and the pain of a sprained ankle pretty exactly
balanced each other.

The morning being extremely cold, the doctor contrived to be seated as
near the fire as was consistent with his other object of having a
perfect command of the table and its apparatus, which consisted not
only of the ordinary comforts of tea and toast, but of a delicious
supply of new-laid eggs and a magnificent round of beef; against
which Mr.

Escot immediately pointed all the artillery of his eloquence, declaring
the use of animal food, conjointly with that of fire, to be one of the
principal causes of the present degeneracy of mankind.

"The natural and original man," said he, "lived in the woods; the
roots and fruits of the earth supplied his simple nutriment; he had
few desires, and no diseases.

But, when he began to sacrifice victims on the altar of superstition, to
pursue the goat and the deer, and, by the pernicious invention of
fire, to pervert their flesh into food, luxury, disease, and premature
death were let loose upon the world. From that period the stature of
mankind has been in a state of gradual diminution, and I have not the
least doubt that it will continue to grow _small by degrees, and
lamentably less_, till the whole race will vanish imperceptibly from
the face of the earth."
"I cannot agree," said Mr.

Foster, "in the consequences being so very disastrous, though I
admit that in some respects the use of animal food retards the perfectibility
of the species."
"In the controversy concerning animal and vegetable food," said Mr.
Jenkison, "there is much to be said on both sides. I content myself with
a mixed diet, and make a point of eating whatever is placed before
me, provided it be good in its kind."Go, Badger, order the Banquet, order what you like; then join our young
friends outside in their innocent mirth, oblivious of me and my cares
and toils. I sacrifice this fair morning on the altar of duty and
friendship!'

The Badger looked at him very suspiciously, but Toad's frank, open
countenance made it difficult to suggest any unworthy motive in this
change of attitude. He quitted the room, accordingly, in the direction
of the kitchen, and as soon as the door had closed behind him, Toad
hurried to the writing-table. A fine idea had occurred to him while he
was talking. He WOULD write the invitations; and he would take care to
mention the leading part he had taken in the fight, and how he had laid
the Chief Weasel flat; and he would hint at his adventures, and what a
career of triumph he had to tell about; and on the fly-leaf he would set
out a sort of a programme of entertainment for the evening--something
like this, as he sketched it out in his head:--

SPEECH. . . . BY TOAD.

(There will be other speeches by TOAD during the evening.)

ADDRESS. . . BY TOAD

SYNOPSIS--Our Prison System--the Waterways of Old
England--Horse-dealing, and how to deal--Property, its rights and its
duties--Back to the Land--A Typical English Squire.

SONG. . . . BY TOAD. (Composed by himself.) OTHER COMPOSITIONS. BY TOAD

will be sung in the course of the evening by the. . . COMPOSER.


The idea pleased him mightily, and he worked very hard and got all the
letters finished by noon, at which hour it was reported to him that
there was a small and rather bedraggled weasel at the door, inquiring
timidly whether he could be of any service to the gentlemen. Toad
swaggered out and found it was one of the prisoners of the previous
evening, very respectful and anxious to please. He patted him on the
head, shoved the bundle of invitations into his paw, and told him to
cut along quick and deliver them as fast as he could, and if he liked
to come back again in the evening, perhaps there might be a shilling
for him, or, again, perhaps there mightn't; and the poor weasel seemed
really quite grateful, and hurried off eagerly to do his mission.

Jenkison, "and cannot decide where doctors disagree; in the meantime,
I conclude that man is omnivorous, and on that conclusion I act."
"Your conclusion is truly orthodox," said the Reverend Doctor Gaster;
"indeed, the loaves and fishes are typical of a mixed diet; and the
practise of the church in all ages shows----"
"That it never loses sight of the loaves and fishes," said Mr.

Escot.

"It never loses sight of any point of sound doctrine," said the
reverend doctor.

The coachman now informed them their time was elapsed.

"You will allow," said Mr. Foster, as soon as they were again in motion,
"that the wild man of the woods could not transport himself over two
hundred miles of forest with as much facility as one of these
vehicles transports you and me."
"I am certain," said Mr.

Escot, "that a wild man can travel an immense distance without fatigue;
but what is the advantage of locomotion? The wild man is happy in one
spot, and there he remains; the civilised man is wretched in every
place he happens to be in, and then congratulates himself on being
accommodated with a machine that will whirl him to another, where
he will be just as miserable as ever."

_II.--The Squire and his Guests_

Squire Headlong, in the meanwhile, was superintending operations
in four scenes of action at the Hall--the cellar, the library, the
picture-gallery, and the dining-room-preparing for the reception
of his philosophical visitors.

His myrmidon on this occasion was a little, red-nosed butler, who waddled
about the house after his master, while the latter bounced from room to
room like a cracker. Multitudes of packages had arrived by land and
water, from London, and Liverpool, and Chester, and Manchester, and
various parts of the mountains; books, wine, cheese, mathematical
instruments, turkeys, figs, soda-water, fiddles, flutes, tea, sugar,
eggs, French horns, sofas, chairs, tables, carpets, beds, fruits,
looking-glasses, nuts, drawing-books, bottled ale, pickles, and
fish sauce, patent lamps, barrels of oysters, lemons, and jars of
Portugal grapes.

These, arriving in succession, and with infinite rapidity, had been
deposited at random--as the convenience of the moment dictated--sofas
in the cellar, hampers of ale in the drawing-room, and fiddles and
fish-sauce in the library.

The servants unpacking all these in furious haste, and flying with
them from place to place, tumbled over one another upstairs and down.

'It was,
to be sure, but a small thing that I asked--merely leave to blossom
and expand for yet one more evening, to let myself go and hear the
tumultuous applause that always seems to me--somehow--to bring out my
best qualities. However, you are right, I know, and I am wrong. Hence
forth I will be a very different Toad. My friends, you shall never have
occasion to blush for me again. But, O dear, O dear, this is a hard
world!'

And, pressing his handkerchief to his face, he left the room, with
faltering footsteps.

'Badger,' said the Rat, '_I_ feel like a brute; I wonder what YOU feel
like?'

'O, I know, I know,' said the Badger gloomily. 'But the thing had to be
done. This good fellow has got to live here, and hold his own, and be
respected. Would you have him a common laughing-stock, mocked and jeered
at by stoats and weasels?'

'Of course not,' said the Rat. 'And, talking of weasels, it's lucky we
came upon that little weasel, just as he was setting out with Toad's
invitations. I suspected something from what you told me, and had a look
at one or two; they were simply disgraceful. I confiscated the lot,
and the good Mole is now sitting in the blue boudoir, filling up plain,
simple invitation cards.'