(18:4) Furthermore, such a form of government would only be available for
those who desire to have no foreign relations, but to shut themselves up
within their own frontiers, and to live apart from the rest of the world; it
would be useless to men who must have dealings with other nations; so that
the cases where it could be adopted are very few indeed.

(18:5) Nevertheless, though it could not be copied in its entirety, it
possessed many excellent features which might be brought to our notice, and
perhaps imitated with advantage. (6) My intention, however, is not to write
a treatise on forms of government, so I will pass over most of such points
in silence, and will only touch on those which bear upon my purpose.

(18:7) God's kingdom is not infringed upon by the choice of an earthly ruler
endowed with sovereign rights; for after the Hebrews had transferred their
rights to God, they conferred the sovereign right of ruling on Moses,
investing him with the sole power of instituting and abrogating laws in
the name of God, of choosing priests, of judging, of teaching, of
punishing - in fact, all the prerogatives of an absolute monarch.

(18:8) Again, though the priests were the interpreters of the laws, they had
no power to judge the citizens, or to excommunicate anyone: this could only
be done by the judges and chiefs chosen from among the people. (9) A
consideration of the successes and the histories of the Hebrews will bring
to light other considerations worthy of note. To wit:

(18:9) I. That there were no religious sects, till after the high priests,
in the second commonwealth, possessed the authority to make decrees, and
transact the business of government. (10) In order that such authority might
last for ever, the high priests usurped the rights of secular rulers, and
at last wished to be styled kings. (11) The reason for this is ready to
hand; in the first commonwealth no decrees could bear the name of the high
priest, for he had no right to ordain laws, but only to give the answers of
God to questions asked by the captains or the councils: he had, therefore,
no motive for making changes in the law, but took care, on the contrary, to
administer and guard what had already been received and accepted. (12) His
only means of preserving his freedom in safety against the will of the
captains lay in cherishing the law intact. (13) After the high priests had
assumed the power of carrying on the government, and added the rights of
secular rulers to those they already possessed, each one began both in
things religious and in things secular, to seek for the glorification of his
own name, settling everything by sacerdotal authority, and issuing every
day, concerning ceremonies, faith, and all else, new decrees which he sought
to make as sacred and authoritative as the laws of Moses. (14) Religion thus
sank into a degrading superstition, while the true meaning and
interpretation of the laws became corrupted. (15) Furthermore, while the
high priests were paving their way to the secular rule just after the
restoration, they attempted to gain popular favour by assenting to
every demand; approving whatever the people did, however impious, and
accommodating Scripture to the very depraved current morals. (16) Malachi
bears witness to this in no measured terms: he chides the priests of his
time as despisers of the name of God, and then goes on with his invective as
follows (Mal ii:7, 8): "For the priest's lips should keep knowledge,
and they should seek the law at his mouth: for he is the messenger of
the Lord of hosts. (17) But ye are departed out of the way; ye have
caused many to stumble at the law, ye have corrupted the covenant of
Levi, saith the Lord of hosts." (18) He further accuses them of interpreting
the laws according to their own pleasure, and paying no respect to God but
only to persons. (19) It is certain that the high priests were never so
cautious in their conduct as to escape the remark of the more shrewd among
the people, for the latter were at length emboldened to assert that no
laws ought to be kept save those that were written, and that the decrees
which the Pharisees (consisting, as Josephus says in his " Amtiquities,"
chiefly, of the common people), were deceived into calling the traditions of
the fathers, should not be observed at all. (20) However this may be, we can
in nowise doubt that flattery of the high priest, the corruption of religion
and the laws, and the enormous increase of the extent of the last-named,
gave very great and frequent occasion for disputes and altercations
impossible to allay. (21) When men begin to quarrel with all the ardour of
superstition, and the magistracy to back up one side or the other, they can
never come to a compromise, but are bound to split into sects.

(18:22) II. It is worthy of remark that the prophets, who were in a private
station of life, rather irritated than reformed mankind by their freedom of
warning, rebuke, and censure; whereas the kings, by their reproofs and
punishments, could always produce an effect. (23) The prophets were often
intolerable even to pious kings, on account of the authority they assumed
for judging whether an action was right or wrong, or for reproving the kings
themselves if they dared to transact any business, whether public or
private, without prophetic sanction. (24) King Asa who, according to
the testimony of Scripture, reigned piously, put the prophet Hanani into a
prison-house because he had ventured freely to chide and reprove him for
entering into a covenant with the king of Armenia.

(18:25) Other examples might be cited, tending to prove that religion
gained more harm than good by such freedom, not to speak of the further
consequence, that if the prophets had retained their rights, great
civil wars would have resulted.

(26) III. It is remarkable that during all the period, during which the
people held the reins of power, there was only one civil war, and that one
was completely extinguished, the conquerors taking such pity on the
conquered, that they endeavoured in every way to reinstate them in their
former dignity and power. (27) But after that the people, little accustomed
to kings, changed its first form of government into a monarchy, civil war
raged almost continuously; and battles were so fierce as to exceed all
others recorded; in one engagement (taxing our faith to the utmost)
five hundred thousand Israelites were slaughtered by the men of Judah, and
in another the Israelites slew great numbers of the men of Judah (the
figures are not given in Scripture), almost razed to the ground the walls of
Jerusalem, and sacked the Temple in their unbridled fury. (28) At length,
laden with the spoils of their brethren, satiated with blood, they took
hostages, and leaving the king in his well-nigh devastated kingdom, laid
down their arms, relying on the weakness rather than the good faith of their
foes. (29) A few years after, the men of Judah, with recruited strength,
again took the field, but were a second time beaten by the Israelites, and
slain to the number of a hundred and twenty thousand, two hundred thousand
of their wives and children were led into captivity, and a great booty again
seized. (30) Worn out with these and similar battles set forth at length in
their histories, the Jews at length fell a prey to their enemies.

(18:31) Furthermore, if we reckon up the times during which peace prevailed
under each form of government, we shall find a great discrepancy. (32)
Before the monarchy forty years and more often passed, and once eighty years
(an almost unparalleled period), without any war, foreign or civil. (33)
After the kings acquired sovereign power, the fighting was no longer for
peace and liberty, but for glory; accordingly we find that they all, with
the exception of Solomon (whose virtue and wisdom would be better displayed
in peace than in war) waged war, and finally a fatal desire for power gained
ground, which, in many cases, made the path to the throne a bloody one.

(18:34) Lastly, the laws, during the rule of the people, remained
uncorrupted and were studiously observed. (35) Before the monarchy there
were very, few prophets to admonish the people, but after the establishment
of kings there were a great number at the same time. (36) Obadiah saved a
hundred from death and hid them away, lest they should be slain with the
rest. (37) The people, so far as we can see, were never deceived by false
prophets till after the power had been vested in kings, whose creatures many
of the prophets were. (38) Again, the people, whose heart was generally
proud or humble according to its circumstances, easily corrected it-self
under misfortune, turned again to God, restored His laws, and so freed
itself from all peril; but the kings, whose hearts were always equally
puffed up, and who could not be corrected without humiliation, clung
pertinaciously to their vices, even till the last overthrow of the city.

[18:2] (39) We may now clearly see from what I have said:-

(40) I. How hurtful to religion and the state is the concession to ministers
of religion of any power of issuing decrees or transacting the business of
government: how, on the contrary, far greater stability is afforded, if the
said ministers are only allowed to give answers to questions duly put
to them, and are, as a rule, obliged to preach and practise the received and
accepted doctrines.

(18:41) II How dangerous it is to refer to Divine right matters merely
speculative and subject or liable to dispute. (42) The most tyrannical
governments are those which make crimes of opinions, for everyone has an
inalienable right over his thoughts - nay, such a state of things leads to
the rule of popular passion.

(18:43) Pontius Pilate made concession to the passion of the Pharisees in
consenting to the crucifixion of Christ, whom he knew to be innocent. (44)
Again, the Pharisees, in order to shake the position of men richer than
themselves, began to set on foot questions of religion, and accused the
Sadducees of impiety, and, following their example, the vilest - hypocrites,
stirred, as they pretended, by the same holy wrath which they called zeal
for the Lord, persecuted men whose unblemished character and distinguished
virtue had excited the popular hatred, publicly denounced their opinions,
and inflamed the fierce passions of the people against them.

(18:45) This wanton licence being cloaked with the specious garb of
religion could not easily be repressed, especially when the sovereign
authorities introduced a sect of which they, were not the head; they were
then regarded not as interpreters of Divine right, but as sectarians - that
is, as persons recognizing the right of Divine interpretation assumed by the
leaders of the sect. (46) The authority of the magistrates thus became of
little account in such matters in comparison with the authority of sectarian
leaders before whose interpretations kings were obliged to bow.

(18:47) To avoid such evils in a state, there is no safer way, than to make
piety and religion to consist in acts only - that is, in the practice of
justice and charity, leaving everyone's judgment in other respects free.
(48) But I will speak of this more at length presently.

[18:3] (49) III. We see how necessary it is, both in the interests of the
state and in the interests of religion, to confer on the sovereign power the
right of deciding what is lawful or the reverse. (50) If this right of
judging actions could not be given to the very prophets of God without great
injury, to the state and religion, how much less should it be entrusted to
those who can neither foretell the future nor work miracles! (51) But this
again I will treat of more fully hereafter.

(18:52) IV. Lastly,, we see how disastrous it is for a people unaccustomed
to kings, and possessing a complete code of laws, to set up a monarchy. (53)
Neither can the subjects brook such a sway, nor the royal authority submit
to laws and popular rights set up by anyone inferior to itself. (54) Still
less can a king be expected to defend such laws, for they were not framed to
support his dominion, but the dominion of the people, or some council which
formerly ruled, so that in guarding the popular rights the king would seem
to be a slave rather than a master. (55) The representative of a new
monarchy will employ all his zeal in attempting to frame new laws, so
as to wrest the rights of dominion to his own use, and to reduce the people
till they find it easier to increase than to curtail the royal prerogative.
(56) I must not, however, omit to state that it is no less dangerous to
remove a monarch, though he is on all hands admitted to be a tyrant. (57)
For his people are accustomed to royal authority and will obey no other,
despising and mocking at any less august control.

(18:58) It is therefore necessary, as the prophets discovered of old, if one
king be removed, that he should be replaced by another, who will be a tyrant
from necessity rather than choice. (59) For how will he be able to endure
the sight of the hands of the citizens reeking with royal blood, and to
rejoice in their regicide as a glorious exploit? (60) Was not the deed
perpetrated as an example and warning for himself?

(18:61) If he really wishes to be king, and not to acknowledge the people as
the judge of kings and the master of himself, or to wield a precarious sway,
he must avenge the death of his predecessor, making an example for his own
sake, lest the people should venture to repeat a similar crime. (62) He will
not, however, be able easily to avenge the death of the tyrant by the
slaughter of citizens unless he defends the cause of tyranny and approves
the deeds of his predecessor, thus following in his footsteps.

(18:63) Hence it comes to pass that peoples have often changed their
tyrants, but never removed them or changed the monarchical form of
government into any other.

[18:4] (64) The English people furnish us with a terrible example of this
fact. (65) They sought how to depose their monarch under the forms of law,
but when he had been removed, they were utterly unable to change the form of
government, and after much bloodshed only brought it about, that a new
monarch should be hailed under a different name (as though it had been a
mere question of names); this new monarch could only consolidate his power
by completely destroying the royal stock, putting to death the king's
friends, real or supposed, and disturbing with war the peace which might
encourage discontent, in order that the populace might be engrossed with
novelties and divert its mind from brooding over the slaughter of the king.
(66) At last, however, the people reflected that it had accomplished nothing
for the good of the country beyond violating the rights of the lawful king
and changing everything for the worse. (67) It therefore decided to retrace
its steps as soon as possible, and never rested till it had seen a
complete restoration of the original state of affairs.

(18:68) It may perhaps be objected that the Roman people was easily able to
remove its tyrants, but I gather from its history a strong confirmation of
my contention. (69) Though the Roman people was much more than
ordinarily capable of removing their tyrants and changing their
form of government, inasmuch as it held in its own hands the power of
electing its king and his successor, said being composed of rebels and
criminals had not long been used to the royal yoke (out of its six kings it
had put to death three), nevertheless it could accomplish nothing
beyond electing several tyrants in place of one, who kept it groaning under
a continual state of war, both foreign and civil, till at last it changed
its government again to a form differing from monarchy, as in England, only
in name.

[18:5] (70) As for the United States of the Netherlands, they have never, as
we know, had a king, but only counts, who never attained the full rights of
dominion. (71) The States of the Netherlands evidently acted as principals
in the settlement made by them at the time of the Earl of Leicester's
mission: they always reserved for themselves the authority to keep the
counts up to their duties, and the power to preserve this authority
and the liberty of the citizens. (72) They had ample means of vindicating
their rights if their rulers should prove tyrannical, and could impose
such restraints that nothing could be done without their consent and
approval.

(18:73) Thus the rights of sovereign power have always been vested in the
States, though the last count endeavoured to usurp them. (74) It is
therefore little likely that the States should give them up, especially as
they have just restored their original dominion, lately almost lost.

(18:75) These examples, then, confirm us in our belief, that every dominion
should retain its original form, and, indeed, cannot change it without
danger of the utter ruin of the whole state. (76) Such are the points I have
here thought worthy of remark.


[19:0] CHAPTER XIX - IT IS SHOWN THAT THE RIGHT OVER MATTERS
  SPIRITUAL LIES WHOLLY WITH THE SOVEREIGN, AND THAT
  THE OUTWARD FORMS OF RELIGION SHOULD BE IN ACCORDANCE
  WITH PUBLIC PEACE, IF WE WOULD OBEY GOD ARIGHT.

(1) When I said that the possessors of sovereign power have rights over
everything, and that all rights are dependent on their decree, I did not
merely mean temporal rights, but also spiritual rights; of the latter, no
less than the former, they ought to be the interpreters and the
champions. (2) I wish to draw special attention to this point, and to
discuss it fully in this chapter, because many persons deny that the right
of deciding religious questions belongs to the sovereign power, and refuse
to acknowledge it as the interpreter of Divine right. (3) They
accordingly assume full licence to accuse and arraign it, nay, even to
excommunicate it from the Church, as Ambrosius treated the Emperor
Theodosius in old time. (4) However, I will show later on in this chapter
that they take this means of dividing the government, and paving the
way to their own ascendancy. (5) I wish, however, first to point out that
religion acquires its force as law solely from the decrees of the sovereign.
(6) God has no special kingdom among men except in so far as He reigns
through temporal rulers. [19:1] (7) Moreover, the rites of religion and the
outward observances of piety should be in accordance with the public peace
and well-being, and should therefore be determined by the sovereign power
alone. (8) I speak here only of the outward observances of piety and the
external rites of religion, not of piety, itself, nor of the inward worship
of God, nor the means by which the mind is inwardly led to do homage to God
in singleness of heart.

(19:9) Inward worship of God and piety in itself are within the sphere of
everyone's private rights, and cannot be alienated (as I showed at the end
of Chapter VII.). (10) What I here mean by the kingdom of God is, I
think, sufficiently clear from what has been said in Chapter XIV.
(11) I there showed that a man best fulfils Gods law who worships Him,
according to His command, through acts of justice and charity; it follows,
therefore, that wherever justice and charity have the force of law and
ordinance, there is God's kingdom.

(19:12) I recognize no difference between the cases where God teaches and
commands the practice of justice and charity through our natural faculties,
and those where He makes special revelations; nor is the form of the
revelation of importance so long as such practice is revealed and becomes a
sovereign and supreme law to men. (13) If, therefore, I show that justice
and charity can only acquire the force of right and law through the rights
of rulers, I shall be able readily to arrive at the conclusion (seeing that
the rights of rulers are in the possession of the sovereign), that religion
can only acquire the force of right by means of those who have the right to
command, and that God only rules among men through the instrumentality of
earthly potentates. (14) It follows from what has been said, that the
practice of justice and charity only acquires the force of law through the
rights of the sovereign authority; for we showed in Chapter XVI. that in the
state of nature reason has no more rights than desire, but that men living
either by the laws of the former or the laws of the latter, possess rights
co-extensive with their powers.

(19:15) For this reason we could not conceive sin to exist in the state of
nature, nor imagine God as a judge punishing man's transgressions; but we
supposed all things to happen according to the general laws of universal
nature, there being no difference between pious and impious, between him
that was pure (as Solomon says) and him that was impure, because there was
no possibility either of justice or charity.

[19:2] (16) In order that the true doctrines of reason, that is (as we
showed in Chapter IV.), the true Divine doctrines might obtain absolutely
the force of law and right, it was necessary that each individual should
cede his natural right, and transfer it either to society as a whole, or to
a certain body of men, or to one man. (17) Then, and not till then,
does it first dawn upon us what is justice and what is injustice,
what is equity and what is iniquity.

(19:18) Justice, therefore, and absolutely all the precepts of reason,
including love towards one's neighbour, receive the force of laws and
ordinances solely through the rights of dominion, that is (as we showed in
the same chapter) solely on the decree of those who possess the right to
rule. (19) Inasmuch as the kingdom of God consists entirely in rights
applied to justice and charity or to true religion, it follows that (as we
asserted) the kingdom of God can only exist among men through the means of
the sovereign powers; nor does it make any difference whether religion be
apprehended by our natural faculties or by revelation: the argument is sound
in both cases, inasmuch as religion is one and the same, and is equally
revealed by God, whatever be the manner in which it becomes known to men.

(19:20) Thus, in order that the religion revealed by the prophets might have
the force of law among the Jews, it was necessary that every man of them
should yield up his natural right, and that all should, with one accord,
agree that they would only obey such commands as God should
reveal to them through the prophets. (21) Just as we have shown to take
place in a democracy, where men with one consent agree to live according to
the dictates of reason. (22) Although the Hebrews furthermore transferred
their right to God, they were able to do so rather in theory than in
practice, for, as a matter of fact (as we pointed out above) they
absolutely retained the right of dominion till they transferred it to Moses,
who in his turn became absolute king, so that it was only through him that
God reigned over the Hebrews. (23) For this reason (namely, that religion
only acquires the force of law by means of the sovereign power) Moses was
not able to punish those who, before the covenant, and consequently while
still in possession of their rights, violated the Sabbath (Exod. xvi:27),
but was able to do so after the covenant (Numb. xv:36), because everyone had
then yielded up his natural rights, and the ordinance of the
Sabbath had received the force of law.

(19:24) Lastly, for the same reason, after the destruction of the Hebrew
dominion, revealed religion ceased to have the force of law; for we cannot
doubt that as soon as the Jews transferred their right to the king of
Babylon, the kingdom of God and the Divine right forthwith ceased. (25)
For the covenant wherewith they promised to obey all the utterances of God
was abrogated; God's kingdom, which was based thereupon, also ceased. (26)
The Hebrews could no longer abide thereby, inasmuch as their rights no
longer belonged to them but to the king of Babylon, whom (as we showed in
Chapter XVI.) they were bound to obey in all things. (27) Jeremiah (chap.
xxix:7) expressly admonishes them of this fact: "And seek the peace of the
city, whither I have caused you to be carried away captives, and pray unto
the Lord for it; for in the peace thereof shall ye have peace." (28) Now,
they could not seek the peace of the City as having a share in its
government, but only as slaves, being, as they were, captives; by
obedience in all things, with a view to avoiding seditions, and by observing
all the laws of the country, however different from their own. (29) It is
thus abundantly evident that religion among the Hebrews only acquired the
form of law through the right of the sovereign rule; when that rule was
destroyed, it could no longer be received as the law of a particular
kingdom, but only as the universal precept of reason. (30) I say of reason,
for the universal religion had not yet become known by revelation. (31) We
may therefore draw the general conclusion that religion, whether revealed
through our natural faculties or through prophets, receives the force of a
command solely through the decrees of the holders of sovereign power; and,
further, that God has no special kingdom among men, except in so far as He
reigns through earthly potentates.

(19:32) We may now see in a clearer light what was stated in Chapter IV.,
namely, that all the decrees of God involve eternal truth and necessity, so
that we cannot conceive God as a prince or legislator giving laws to
mankind. (33) For this reason the Divine precepts, whether revealed through
our natural faculties, or through prophets, do not receive immediately from
God the force of a command, but only from those, or through the mediation of
those, who possess the right of ruling and legislating. (34) It is only
through these latter means that God rules among men, and directs human
affairs with justice and equity.

(19:35) This conclusion is supported by experience, for we find traces of
Divine justice only in places where just men bear sway; elsewhere the same
lot (to repeat, again Solomon's words) befalls the just and the unjust, the
pure and the impure: a state of things which causes Divine Providence to be
doubted by many who think that God immediately reigns among men, and
directs all nature for their benefit.

[19:3] (36) As, then, both reason and experience tell us that the Divine
right is entirely dependent on the decrees of secular rulers, it follows
that secular rulers are its proper interpreters. (37) How this is so we
shall now see, for it is time to show that the outward observances of
religion, and all the external practices of piety should be brought into
accordance with the public peace and well-being if we would obey God
rightly. (38) When this has been shown we shall easily understand how the
sovereign rulers are the proper interpreters of religion and piety.

