She got two candles, lit them, and after placing them in gilt
candlesticks, handed one of the candlesticks to him. The room was on the
third floor in under the eaves--as faraway from hers, probably, as the
size of the house permitted. Philip did not mind. He liked to sleep in
rooms under eaves. There was an enchantment about the rain on the roof
that people who slept in less celestial bowers never got to know. After
Judith left, he threw open the single window and undressed and climbed
into bed. Remembering the rose, he got it out of his coat pocket and
examined it by candlelight. It was green all right--even greener than he
had at first thought. Its scent was reminiscent of the summer breeze
that was blowing through the downstairs rooms, though not at all in
keeping with the chill October air that was coming through his bedroom
window. He laid it on the table beside the bed and blew out the candle.
He would go looking for the bush tomorrow.

       *       *       *       *       *

Philip was an early riser, and dawn had not yet departed when, fully
dressed, he left the room with the rose in his coat pocket and quietly
descended the stairs. Entering the living room, he found Zarathustra
curled up in one of the armchairs, and for a moment he had the eerie
impression that the animal had extended one of his shaggy ears and was
scratching his back with it. When Philip did a doubletake, however, the
ear was back to normal size and reposing on its owner's tawny cheek.
Rubbing the sleep out of his eyes, he said, "Come on, Zarathustra, we're
going for a walk."

He headed for the back door, Zarathustra at his heels. A double door
leading off the dining room barred his way and proved to be locked.
Frowning, he returned to the living room. "All right," he said to
Zarathustra, "we'll go out the front way then."

[Illustration]

He walked around the side of the house, his canine companion trotting
beside him. The side yard turned out to be disappointing. It contained
no roses--green ones, or any other kind. About all it did contain that
was worthy of notice was a dog house--an ancient affair that was much
too large for Zarathustra and which probably dated from the days when
Judith had owned a larger dog. The yard itself was a mess: the grass
hadn't been cut all summer, the shrubbery was ragged, and dead leaves
lay everywhere. A similar state of affairs existed next door, and
glancing across lots, he saw that the same desuetude prevailed
throughout the entire neighborhood. Obviously the good citizens of
Valleyview had lost interest in their real estate long before they had
moved out.

At length his explorations led him to the back door. If there were green
roses anywhere, the trellis that adorned the small back porch was the
logical place for them to be. He found nothing but bedraggled Virginia
creeper and more dead leaves.

He tried the back door, and finding it locked, circled the rest of the
way around the house. Judith was waiting for him on the front porch.
"How nice of you to walk Zarathustra," she said icily. "I do hope you
found the yard in order."

[Illustration]

The yellow dress she was wearing did not match the tone of her voice,
and the frilly blue apron tied round her waist belied the frostiness of
her gray-green eyes. Nevertheless, her rancor was real. "Sorry," he
said. "I didn't know your back yard was out of bounds." Then, "If you'll
give me a list of the places you want evaluated, I'll get started right
away."

"I'll take you around again personally--after we have breakfast."

Again he was consigned to the living room while she performed the
necessary culinary operations, and again she served him by tray. Clearly
she did not want him in the kitchen, or anywhere near it. He was not
much of a one for mysteries, but this one was intriguing him more and
more by the minute.

Breakfast over, she told him to wait on the front porch while she did
the dishes, and instructed Zarathustra to keep him company. She had two
voices: the one she used in addressing Zarathustra contained overtones
of summer, and the one she used in addressing Philip contained
overtones of fall. "Some day," Philip told the little dog, "that chip
she carries on her shoulder is going to fall off of its own accord, and
by then it will be too late--the way it was too late for me when I found
out that the person I'd been running away from all my life was myself in
wolf's clothing."

"Ruf," said Zarathustra, looking up at him with benign golden eyes.
"Ruf-ruf!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Presently Judith re-appeared, sans apron, and the three of them set
forth into the golden October day. It was Philip's first experience in
evaluating an entire village, but he had a knack for estimating the
worth of property, and by the time noon came around, he had the job half
done. "If you people had made even half an effort to keep your places
up," he told Judith over cold-cut sandwiches and coffee in her living
room, "we could have asked for a third again as much. Why in the world
did you let everything go to pot just because you were moving some place
else?"

She shrugged. "It's hard to get anyone to do housework these days--not
to mention gardening. Besides, in addition to the servant problem,
there's another consideration--human nature. When you've lived in a
shack all your life and you suddenly acquire a palace, you cease caring
very much what the shack looks like."

"Shack!" Philip was indignant. "Why, this house is lovely! Practically
every house you've shown me is lovely. Old, yes--but oldness is an
essential part of the loveliness of houses. If Pfleugersville is on the
order of most housing developments I've seen, you and your neighbors are
going to be good and sorry one of these fine days!"

"But Pfleugersville isn't on the order of most housing developments
you've seen. In fact, it's not a housing development at all. But let's
not go into that. Anyway, we're concerned with Valleyview, not
Pfleugersville."

"Very well," Philip said. "This afternoon should wind things up so far
as the appraising goes."

       *       *       *       *       *

That evening, after a coffee-less supper--both the gas and the water had
been turned off that afternoon--he totaled up his figures. They made
quite a respectable sum. He looked across the coffee table, which he had
commandeered as a desk, to where Judith, with the dubious help of
Zarathustra, was sorting out a pile of manila envelopes which she had
placed in the middle of the living-room floor. "I'll do my best to sell
everything," he said, "but it's going to be difficult going till we get
a few families living here. People are reluctant about moving into empty
neighborhoods, and businessmen aren't keen about opening up business
places before the customers are available. But I think it'll work out
all right. There's a plaza not far from here that will provide a place
to shop until the local markets are functioning, and Valleyview is part
of a centralized school district." He slipped the paper he had been
figuring on into his brief case, closed the case and stood up. "I'll
keep in touch with you."

Judith shook her head. "You'll do nothing of the sort. As soon as you
leave, I'm moving to Pfleugersville. My business here is finished."

"I'll keep in touch with you there then. All you have to do is give me
your address and phone number."

She shook her head again. "I could give you both, but neither would do
you any good. But that's beside the point. Valleyview is your
responsibility now--not mine."

Philip sat back down again. "You can start explaining any time," he
said.

