Produced by Richard Fane


WHERE ANGELS FEAR TO TREAD

By E. M. Forster


Chapter 1

They were all at Charing Cross to see Lilia off--Philip, Harriet, Irma,
Mrs. Herriton herself. Even Mrs. Theobald, squired by Mr. Kingcroft,
had braved the journey from Yorkshire to bid her only daughter good-bye.
Miss Abbott was likewise attended by numerous relatives, and the sight
of so many people talking at once and saying such different things
caused Lilia to break into ungovernable peals of laughter.

"Quite an ovation," she cried, sprawling out of her first-class
carriage. "They'll take us for royalty. Oh, Mr. Kingcroft, get us
foot-warmers."

The good-natured young man hurried away, and Philip, taking his place,
flooded her with a final stream of advice and injunctions--where to
stop, how to learn Italian, when to use mosquito-nets, what pictures
to look at. "Remember," he concluded, "that it is only by going off the
track that you get to know the country. See the little towns--Gubbio,
Pienza, Cortona, San Gemignano, Monteriano. And don't, let me beg
you, go with that awful tourist idea that Italy's only a museum of
antiquities and art. Love and understand the Italians, for the people
are more marvellous than the land."

"How I wish you were coming, Philip," she said, flattered at the
unwonted notice her brother-in-law was giving her.

"I wish I were." He could have managed it without great difficulty,
for his career at the Bar was not so intense as to prevent occasional
holidays. But his family disliked his continual visits to the Continent,
and he himself often found pleasure in the idea that he was too busy to
leave town.

"Good-bye, dear every one. What a whirl!" She caught sight of her little
daughter Irma, and felt that a touch of maternal solemnity was required.
"Good-bye, darling. Mind you're always good, and do what Granny tells
you."

She referred not to her own mother, but to her mother-in-law, Mrs.
Herriton, who hated the title of Granny.

Irma lifted a serious face to be kissed, and said cautiously, "I'll do
my best."

"She is sure to be good," said Mrs. Herriton, who was standing pensively
a little out of the hubbub. But Lilia was already calling to Miss
Abbott, a tall, grave, rather nice-looking young lady who was conducting
her adieus in a more decorous manner on the platform.

"Caroline, my Caroline! Jump in, or your chaperon will go off without
you."

And Philip, whom the idea of Italy always intoxicated, had started
again, telling her of the supreme moments of her coming journey--the
Campanile of Airolo, which would burst on her when she emerged from the
St. Gothard tunnel, presaging the future; the view of the Ticino and
Lago Maggiore as the train climbed the slopes of Monte Cenere; the view
of Lugano, the view of Como--Italy gathering thick around her now--the
arrival at her first resting-place, when, after long driving through
dark and dirty streets, she should at last behold, amid the roar of
trams and the glare of arc lamps, the buttresses of the cathedral of
Milan.

"Handkerchiefs and collars," screamed Harriet, "in my inlaid box! I've
lent you my inlaid box."

"Good old Harry!" She kissed every one again, and there was a moment's
silence. They all smiled steadily, excepting Philip, who was choking in
the fog, and old Mrs. Theobald, who had begun to cry. Miss Abbott got
into the carriage. The guard himself shut the door, and told Lilia that
she would be all right. Then the train moved, and they all moved with it
a couple of steps, and waved their handkerchiefs, and uttered cheerful
little cries. At that moment Mr. Kingcroft reappeared, carrying a
footwarmer by both ends, as if it was a tea-tray. He was sorry that
he was too late, and called out in a quivering voice, "Good-bye, Mrs.
Charles. May you enjoy yourself, and may God bless you."

Lilia smiled and nodded, and then the absurd position of the foot-warmer
overcame her, and she began to laugh again.

"Oh, I am so sorry," she cried back, "but you do look so funny. Oh, you
all look so funny waving! Oh, pray!" And laughing helplessly, she was
carried out into the fog.

"High spirits to begin so long a journey," said Mrs. Theobald, dabbing
her eyes.

Mr. Kingcroft solemnly moved his head in token of agreement. "I wish,"
said he, "that Mrs. Charles had gotten the footwarmer. These London
porters won't take heed to a country chap."

"But you did your best," said Mrs. Herriton. "And I think it simply
noble of you to have brought Mrs. Theobald all the way here on such a
day as this." Then, rather hastily, she shook hands, and left him to
take Mrs. Theobald all the way back.

Sawston, her own home, was within easy reach of London, and they were
not late for tea. Tea was in the dining-room, with an egg for Irma, to
keep up the child's spirits. The house seemed strangely quiet after a
fortnight's bustle, and their conversation was spasmodic and subdued.
They wondered whether the travellers had got to Folkestone, whether it
would be at all rough, and if so what would happen to poor Miss Abbott.

"And, Granny, when will the old ship get to Italy?" asked Irma.

"'Grandmother,' dear; not 'Granny,'" said Mrs. Herriton, giving her
a kiss. "And we say 'a boat' or 'a steamer,' not 'a ship.' Ships have
sails. And mother won't go all the way by sea. You look at the map of
Europe, and you'll see why. Harriet, take her. Go with Aunt Harriet, and
she'll show you the map."

"Righto!" said the little girl, and dragged the reluctant Harriet
into the library. Mrs. Herriton and her son were left alone. There was
immediately confidence between them.

"Here beginneth the New Life," said Philip.

"Poor child, how vulgar!" murmured Mrs. Herriton. "It's surprising that
she isn't worse. But she has got a look of poor Charles about her."

"And--alas, alas!--a look of old Mrs. Theobald. What appalling
apparition was that! I did think the lady was bedridden as well as
imbecile. Why ever did she come?"

"Mr. Kingcroft made her. I am certain of it. He wanted to see Lilia
again, and this was the only way."

"I hope he is satisfied. I did not think my sister-in-law distinguished
herself in her farewells."

Mrs. Herriton shuddered. "I mind nothing, so long as she has gone--and
gone with Miss Abbott. It is mortifying to think that a widow of
thirty-three requires a girl ten years younger to look after her."

"I pity Miss Abbott. Fortunately one admirer is chained to England. Mr.
Kingcroft cannot leave the crops or the climate or something. I don't
think, either, he improved his chances today. He, as well as Lilia, has
the knack of being absurd in public."

Mrs. Herriton replied, "When a man is neither well bred, nor well
connected, nor handsome, nor clever, nor rich, even Lilia may discard
him in time."

"No. I believe she would take any one. Right up to the last, when her
boxes were packed, she was 'playing' the chinless curate. Both the
curates are chinless, but hers had the dampest hands. I came on them in
the Park. They were speaking of the Pentateuch."

"My dear boy! If possible, she has got worse and worse. It was your idea
of Italian travel that saved us!"

Philip brightened at the little compliment. "The odd part is that she
was quite eager--always asking me for information; and of course I was
very glad to give it. I admit she is a Philistine, appallingly ignorant,
and her taste in art is false. Still, to have any taste at all is
something. And I do believe that Italy really purifies and ennobles all
who visit her. She is the school as well as the playground of the world.
It is really to Lilia's credit that she wants to go there."

"She would go anywhere," said his mother, who had heard enough of the
praises of Italy. "I and Caroline Abbott had the greatest difficulty in
dissuading her from the Riviera."

"No, Mother; no. She was really keen on Italy. This travel is quite a
crisis for her." He found the situation full of whimsical romance: there
was something half attractive, half repellent in the thought of this
vulgar woman journeying to places he loved and revered. Why should she
not be transfigured? The same had happened to the Goths.

Mrs. Herriton did not believe in romance nor in transfiguration, nor in
parallels from history, nor in anything else that may disturb domestic
life. She adroitly changed the subject before Philip got excited. Soon
Harriet returned, having given her lesson in geography. Irma went to bed
early, and was tucked up by her grandmother. Then the two ladies worked
and played cards. Philip read a book. And so they all settled down to
their quiet, profitable existence, and continued it without interruption
through the winter.

It was now nearly ten years since Charles had fallen in love with Lilia
Theobald because she was pretty, and during that time Mrs. Herriton had
hardly known a moment's rest. For six months she schemed to prevent
the match, and when it had taken place she turned to another task--the
supervision of her daughter-in-law. Lilia must be pushed through life
without bringing discredit on the family into which she had married. She
was aided by Charles, by her daughter Harriet, and, as soon as he was
old enough, by the clever one of the family, Philip. The birth of Irma
made things still more difficult. But fortunately old Mrs. Theobald, who
had attempted interference, began to break up. It was an effort to her
to leave Whitby, and Mrs. Herriton discouraged the effort as far as
possible. That curious duel which is fought over every baby was fought
and decided early. Irma belonged to her father's family, not to her
mother's.

Charles died, and the struggle recommenced. Lilia tried to assert
herself, and said that she should go to take care of Mrs. Theobald.
It required all Mrs. Herriton's kindness to prevent her. A house was
finally taken for her at Sawston, and there for three years she lived
with Irma, continually subject to the refining influences of her late
husband's family.

During one of her rare Yorkshire visits trouble began again. Lilia
confided to a friend that she liked a Mr. Kingcroft extremely, but
that she was not exactly engaged to him. The news came round to Mrs.
Herriton, who at once wrote, begging for information, and pointing out
that Lilia must either be engaged or not, since no intermediate state
existed. It was a good letter, and flurried Lilia extremely. She left
Mr. Kingcroft without even the pressure of a rescue-party. She cried a
great deal on her return to Sawston, and said she was very sorry. Mrs.
Herriton took the opportunity of speaking more seriously about the
duties of widowhood and motherhood than she had ever done before. But
somehow things never went easily after. Lilia would not settle down in
her place among Sawston matrons. She was a bad housekeeper, always in
the throes of some domestic crisis, which Mrs. Herriton, who kept her
servants for years, had to step across and adjust. She let Irma stop
away from school for insufficient reasons, and she allowed her to wear
rings. She learnt to bicycle, for the purpose of waking the place up,
and coasted down the High Street one Sunday evening, falling off at the
turn by the church. If she had not been a relative, it would have been
entertaining. But even Philip, who in theory loved outraging English
conventions, rose to the occasion, and gave her a talking which she
remembered to her dying day. It was just then, too, that they discovered
that she still allowed Mr. Kingcroft to write to her "as a gentleman
friend," and to send presents to Irma.

Philip thought of Italy, and the situation was saved. Caroline,
charming, sober, Caroline Abbott, who lived two turnings away, was
seeking a companion for a year's travel. Lilia gave up her house, sold
half her furniture, left the other half and Irma with Mrs. Herriton, and
had now departed, amid universal approval, for a change of scene.

She wrote to them frequently during the winter--more frequently than she
wrote to her mother. Her letters were always prosperous. Florence she
found perfectly sweet, Naples a dream, but very whiffy. In Rome one had
simply to sit still and feel. Philip, however, declared that she was
improving. He was particularly gratified when in the early spring she
began to visit the smaller towns that he had recommended. "In a place
like this," she wrote, "one really does feel in the heart of things, and
off the beaten track. Looking out of a Gothic window every morning, it
seems impossible that the middle ages have passed away." The letter was
from Monteriano, and concluded with a not unsuccessful description of
the wonderful little town.

"It is something that she is contented," said Mrs. Herriton. "But no one
could live three months with Caroline Abbott and not be the better for
it."

Just then Irma came in from school, and she read her mother's letter to
her, carefully correcting any grammatical errors, for she was a loyal
supporter of parental authority--Irma listened politely, but soon
changed the subject to hockey, in which her whole being was absorbed.
They were to vote for colours that afternoon--yellow and white or yellow
and green. What did her grandmother think?

Of course Mrs. Herriton had an opinion, which she sedately expounded, in
spite of Harriet, who said that colours were unnecessary for children,
and of Philip, who said that they were ugly. She was getting proud of
Irma, who had certainly greatly improved, and could no longer be called
that most appalling of things--a vulgar child. She was anxious to form
her before her mother returned. So she had no objection to the leisurely
movements of the travellers, and even suggested that they should
overstay their year if it suited them.

Lilia's next letter was also from Monteriano, and Philip grew quite
enthusiastic.

"They've stopped there over a week!" he cried. "Why! I shouldn't have
done as much myself. They must be really keen, for the hotel's none too
comfortable."

"I cannot understand people," said Harriet. "What can they be doing all
day? And there is no church there, I suppose."

"There is Santa Deodata, one of the most beautiful churches in Italy."

"Of course I mean an English church," said Harriet stiffly. "Lilia
promised me that she would always be in a large town on Sundays."

"If she goes to a service at Santa Deodata's, she will find more beauty
and sincerity than there is in all the Back Kitchens of Europe."

The Back Kitchen was his nickname for St. James's, a small depressing
edifice much patronized by his sister. She always resented any slight on
it, and Mrs. Herriton had to intervene.

"Now, dears, don't. Listen to Lilia's letter. 'We love this place, and
I do not know how I shall ever thank Philip for telling me it. It is
not only so quaint, but one sees the Italians unspoiled in all their
simplicity and charm here. The frescoes are wonderful. Caroline, who
grows sweeter every day, is very busy sketching.'"

"Every one to his taste!" said Harriet, who always delivered a platitude
as if it was an epigram. She was curiously virulent about Italy, which
she had never visited, her only experience of the Continent being an
occasional six weeks in the Protestant parts of Switzerland.

"Oh, Harriet is a bad lot!" said Philip as soon as she left the room.
His mother laughed, and told him not to be naughty; and the appearance
of Irma, just off to school, prevented further discussion. Not only in
Tracts is a child a peacemaker.

"One moment, Irma," said her uncle. "I'm going to the station. I'll give
you the pleasure of my company."

They started together. Irma was gratified; but conversation flagged,
for Philip had not the art of talking to the young. Mrs. Herriton sat
a little longer at the breakfast table, re-reading Lilia's letter. Then
she helped the cook to clear, ordered dinner, and started the housemaid
turning out the drawing-room, Tuesday being its day. The weather was
lovely, and she thought she would do a little gardening, as it was quite
early. She called Harriet, who had recovered from the insult to St.
James's, and together they went to the kitchen garden and began to sow
some early vegetables.

"We will save the peas to the last; they are the greatest fun," said
Mrs. Herriton, who had the gift of making work a treat. She and her
elderly daughter always got on very well, though they had not a great
deal in common. Harriet's education had been almost too successful. As
Philip once said, she had "bolted all the cardinal virtues and couldn't
digest them." Though pious and patriotic, and a great moral asset for
the house, she lacked that pliancy and tact which her mother so much
valued, and had expected her to pick up for herself. Harriet, if she had
been allowed, would have driven Lilia to an open rupture, and, what was
worse, she would have done the same to Philip two years before, when he
returned full of passion for Italy, and ridiculing Sawston and its ways.

"It's a shame, Mother!" she had cried. "Philip laughs at everything--the
Book Club, the Debating Society, the Progressive Whist, the bazaars.
People won't like it. We have our reputation. A house divided against
itself cannot stand."

Mrs. Herriton replied in the memorable words, "Let Philip say what he
likes, and he will let us do what we like." And Harriet had acquiesced.

They sowed the duller vegetables first, and a pleasant feeling of
righteous fatigue stole over them as they addressed themselves to the
peas. Harriet stretched a string to guide the row straight, and Mrs.
Herriton scratched a furrow with a pointed stick. At the end of it she
looked at her watch.

"It's twelve! The second post's in. Run and see if there are any
letters."

Harriet did not want to go. "Let's finish the peas. There won't be any
letters."

"No, dear; please go. I'll sow the peas, but you shall cover them
up--and mind the birds don't see 'em!"

Mrs. Herriton was very careful to let those peas trickle evenly from
her hand, and at the end of the row she was conscious that she had never
sown better. They were expensive too.

"Actually old Mrs. Theobald!" said Harriet, returning.

"Read me the letter. My hands are dirty. How intolerable the crested
paper is."

Harriet opened the envelope.

"I don't understand," she said; "it doesn't make sense."

"Her letters never did."

"But it must be sillier than usual," said Harriet, and her voice began
to quaver. "Look here, read it, Mother; I can't make head or tail."

Mrs. Herriton took the letter indulgently. "What is the difficulty?" she
said after a long pause. "What is it that puzzles you in this letter?"

"The meaning--" faltered Harriet. The sparrows hopped nearer and began
to eye the peas.

"The meaning is quite clear--Lilia is engaged to be married. Don't cry,
dear; please me by not crying--don't talk at all. It's more than I could
bear. She is going to marry some one she has met in a hotel. Take the
letter and read for yourself." Suddenly she broke down over what might
seem a small point. "How dare she not tell me direct! How dare she
write first to Yorkshire! Pray, am I to hear through Mrs. Theobald--a
patronizing, insolent letter like this? Have I no claim at all? Bear
witness, dear"--she choked with passion--"bear witness that for this
I'll never forgive her!"

"Oh, what is to be done?" moaned Harriet. "What is to be done?"

"This first!" She tore the letter into little pieces and scattered it
over the mould. "Next, a telegram for Lilia! No! a telegram for Miss
Caroline Abbott. She, too, has something to explain."

"Oh, what is to be done?" repeated Harriet, as she followed her mother
to the house. In _Jupiter and Io_, which perhaps made part of the
same performance as _Amphrissa_, Mercury disguises himself as a shepherd,
in order to cut off the head of Argus. This he did to such good purpose
that record of the trunkless member remains unto this day in the
inventories of the Lord Admiral's company.

Another of these pieces, the character of which can be easily
imagined from its title, _Apollo and Daphne_, ends with a song,
which may owe something to the traditions of the mythological
pastoral:

Howsoe're the Minutes go, Run the heures or swift or slow:
Seem the Months or short or long, Passe the seasons right or
wrong:
All we sing that Phoebus follow, _Semel in anno ridet Apollo_.

Early fall the Spring or not, Prove the Summer cold or hot:
Autumne be it faire or foule, Let the Winter smile or skowle:
Still we sing, that Phoebus follow, _Semel in anno ridet Apollo_.

Passing on to the seventeenth century, the first piece that demands
attention is the St. John's Twelfth Night entertainment, _Narcissus_,
performed at Oxford in 1602. If its pastoral quality is somewhat evanescent,
there is another point of view from which the piece has a good deal of
interest. It is, namely, a burlesque production of the nature of the
Pyramus and Thisbe interlude in the _Midsummer Night's Dream_, and
flavoured with something of the comic rusticity of Greene's Carmela
eclogue in _Menaphon_. It is needless here to summarize the plot of the
'merriment' which the ingenious author, no doubt a student of St.
John's, evolved from Ovid's account in the third book of the
_Metamorphoses_, and which runs to the respectable length of some eight
hundred lines.[342] I may be allowed, however, to note that echo
verses, suggested by Ovid, are introduced and handled with more
than usual ingenuity; and further to quote two characteristic
passages.

In one of these the nymphs Florida and Clois court the affections of the
loveless hero.

_Florida._ Shine thou on mee, sweet plannet, bee soe good As with
thy fiery beames to warme my bloud ...

_Narcissus._ To speak the truth, faire maid, if you will have us, O
Oedipus I am not, I am Davus.

_Clois._ Good Master Davis, bee not so discourteous As not to heare
a maidens plaint for vertuous.

_Nar._ Speake on a Gods name, so love bee not the theame.

_Flo._ O, whiter then a dish of clowted creame, Speake not of love? How
can I overskippe To speake of love to such a cherrye lippe?

_Nar._ It would beseeme a maidens slender vastitye Never to speake of any
thinge but chastitye.

                    _Flo._ As true as Helen was to Menela So true to thee will be thy
Florida.

_Clo._ As was to trusty Pyramus truest Thisbee So true to you will ever
thy sweete Clois bee.

_Flo._ O doe not stay a moment nor a minute, Love is a puddle, I am
ore shooes in it.

_Clo._ Doe not delay us halfe a minutes mountenance That ar in love,
in love with thy sweet countenance.

_Nar._ Then take my dole although I deale my alms ill, Narcissus cannot
love with any damzell; Although, for most part, men to love encline
all, I will not, I, this is your answere finall.

We are here, it is true, as far as ever from the delicate rusticity of
Lorenzo de' Medici, and not particularly near to the humour of the Athenian
rustics, but for burlesque it is passably amusing. The _Midsummer
Night's Dream_ had appeared possibly a decade earlier, and the
audience in the college hall at Oxford can hardly but have been
reminded of Wall and Moonshine as they listened to the speech by one who
enters carrying 'a buckett and boughes and grasse.'
A well there was withouten mudd, Of silver hue, with waters cleare,
Whome neither sheep that chawe the cudd, Shepheards nor goates came
ever neare; Whome, truth to say, nor beast nor bird, Nor windfalls
yet from trees had stirrde.

[_He strawes the grasse about the buckett._ And round about it there was
grasse, As learned lines of poets showe, Which next by water nourisht
was; [_Sprinkle water._ Neere to it too a wood did growe, _[Sets
down the bowes._ To keep the place, as well I wott, With too much
sunne from being hott.

And thus least you should have mistooke it, The truth of all I to you
tell:

Suppose you the well had a buckett, And so the buckett stands for the
well; And 'tis, least you should counte mee for a sot O, A very pretty
figure cald _pars pro toto_.

The first strict masque of a pastoral character that we meet with is
that of Juno and Iris, with the dance of nymphs and the 'sunburnt
sicklemen, of August weary,' introduced by Shakespeare into the
_Tempest_; but this must not be taken as altogether typical of the
independent productions of the time.

The masques introduced into plays were necessarily, for the most part,
of a slighter and less elaborate character than those performed at
court, or for the entertainment of persons of rank. This is more
particularly the case with the serions portions of the masques, since the
actors, who were engaged for the performance of the antimasques in
court revels, frequently transferred their parts bodily on to the public
boards.
Thus, in the entertainment in the _Winters Tale_, in which shepherds
also appear, the main feature was a dance of satyrs, which was no doubt
borrowed from Jonson's _Masque of Oberon_.[343] The _Tempest_
masque, however, is of the simpler type, without antimasque.

At Juno's command Iris summons Ceres, and the goddesses together bestow
their blessing on the young lovers.

Then at Iris' call come the naiads and the reapers for the dance. The
date of the play may be taken as late in 1610, or early the next year,
a time at which the popularity of the masque was reaching its
height.

Although the mythological element is everywhere prominent, the pastoral
is comparatively of rare occurrence in the regular masque literature
of the seventeenth century. This, considering the adaptability and natural
suitability of the form, is rather surprising. Probably the masque as
it evolved itself at the court of James needed a subject possessing a
traditional story, or at least fixed and known conditions of a
kind which the pastoral was unable to supply.

Be this as it may, on one occasion only did Jonson make extended use of
the kind, namely, in the masque which in the folio of 1640 appears
with the heading 'Pans Anniversarie; or, The Shepherds Holy-day. The
Scene Arcadia. As it was presented at Court before King James. 1625. The
Inventors, Inigo Jones, Ben. Johnson[344].' Even here, however, we
learn little concerning the condition of pastoralism in general, from the
highly specialized form employed to a specific purpose.
As in all the regular masques of the Jonsonian type the characters and
situations exist solely for the opportunities they afford for dance
and song.

Shepherds and nymphs constitute the personae of the masque proper, while
those of the antimasque are supplied by a band of Bocotian clowns, who
come to challenge the Arcadians to the dance. Some of the songs are
very graceful, suggesting at times reminiscences of Spenser, at
others parallels to Ben's own _Sad Shepherd_, but the piece does
not possess either sufficient importance or interest to justify our
lingering over it.

Outside this piece the nearest approach to pastoral characters to be found
in Jonson's masques are, perhaps, the satyr and Queen Mab in the fairy
entertainment at Althorp in 1603, Silenus and the satyrs in _Oberon_ in
1611, and Zephyrus, Spring, and the Fountains and Rivers in
_Chloridia_ in 1631.

During James I's reign pastoral shows of a sort no doubt became
frequent.
While in some cases which remain to be noticed they reached the elaboration
of small plays, in others they probably remained simple affairs enough.
We get an interesting glimpse of the conditions of production in a note
of John Aubrey's.[345] 'In tempore Jacobi,' he writes, 'one Mr.

George Ferraby was parson of Bishops Cannings in Wilts:
an excellent musitian, and no ill poet.

When queen Anne came to Bathe, her way lay to traverse the famous
Wensdyke, which runnes through his parish.
He made severall of his neighbours, good musitians, to play with him in
consort, and to sing. Against her majestie's comeing, he made a pleasant
pastorall, and gave her an entertaynment with his fellow songsters
in shepherds' weeds and bagpipes, he himself like an old bard. After
that wind musique was over, they sang their pastorall eglogues.'

This was in 1613; Ferraby or Ferebe later became chaplain to
the king.

The more elaborate pieces were usually written for performance at schools
or colleges. Such a piece is Tatham's _Love Crowns the End_, composed for
the scholars of Bingham in Nottinghamshire in 1633, and printed in his
_Fancy's Theatre_ in 1640. Small literary interest attaches to the
play, which is equally slight and ill constructed, but is perhaps not
unrepresentative of its class. In spite of its very modest dimensions
it possesses a full romantic-pastoral plot, with the resuit that it is
at times almost unintelligible, owing to the want of space in which
to develop in an adequate and dramatic manner the motives and
situations. The bewildering rapidity with which character succeeds
character upon the stage must have made the representation almost
impossible to follow, while the reading of the piece is not a little
complicated by the confusion in which the stage directions remain in the
only modern edition.[346] Some notion of the complexity of the plot may
be gathered from the following account.

Cliton, having in a fit of jealousy sought to kill his love Florida, is
found wandering in the woods by Alexis, who receives his confession
and shows him the way to repentance. Florida, moreover, has been found
and healed by the wise shepherdess Claudia, and is living in retirement.
Meanwhile Cloe (a name which it appears from the rimes that the author
pronounced Cloi) is saved by Lysander from the pursuit of a Lustful
Shepherd, in consequence of which she transfers to him the affection
she previously bore to her lover Daphnes. Next Leon and his daughter
Gloriana appear, together with the swain Francisco, to whom against her
will the maiden is apparently betrothed. They all go off to view the
games in which Lysander, whose heart is also fixed on Gloriana, proves
victor. His refusal to entertain the affection of Cloe drives her to a
state of distraction, in which the nymphs of the woods take pity on her
and bring her to Claudia to be cured. Gloriana in the meantime returns
the affections of Lysander, but the meeting of the lovers is interrupted
by the jealous Francisco and a gang who wound Lysander and carry off
Gloriana.

She escapes from her captors, but only after she has lost her reason,
and wanders about until she meets with Cliton, who has turned hermit and
who now undertakes her cure. Throughout the play we find comic interludes
by Scrub, a page or attendant in search of his master, who also has
some farcical business with the Lustful Shepherd, who after being
disappointed of Cloe disguises himself as a satyr, apparently deeming
that rôle suited to his taste. In the end all the characters are brought
together. Francisco, found contrite, is forgiven by Lysander and
Gloriana; Cliton and Florida love once more; so do Daphnes and Cloe,
appropriately enough. Scrub announces the death of the usurping
duke, 'who banished good old Leon;' Francisco and Lysander reveal
themselves as princes who left the court to win his daughter's love,
when he was driven from his land, and so--love crowns the end.

Through this medley it is not hard to see the various debts the author
has incurred towards his predecessors.

The verse, in rimed couplets, whether deca- or octo-syllabic,
ultimately depends on Fletcher; of the comic prose scenes I have
already spoken in dealing with Goffe's _Careless Shepherdess_, a
play the influence of which may perhaps be specifically traced in
the satyr-disguise, the gang who carry off Gloriana, her unexplained
escape, and the songs of the 'Destinies' and a 'Heavenly Messenger,'
who in their inconsequence recall the 'Bonus Genius' of Goffe's play.

Scrub may owe his origin to the same source, though he is rather more
like the page in the _Maid's Metamorphosis_.

The usurping duke recalls _As You Like It_; the princes seeking
their love-fortunes among the shepherd folk suggest the _Arcadia_;
while the influence of the _Faithful Shepherdess_ is not only
traceable in the character of the Lustful Shepherd, but also in
certain specific parallels, as where the wounded Lysander, seeing
his love carried off, exclaims:

Stay, stay!

let me but breathe my last Upon her lips, and I'll forgive what's
past; (p. 24)
a reminiscence of the lines spoken by Alexis in a similar situation:
Oh, yet forbear To take her from me!

give me leave to die By her! (_Faithful Shepherdess_, III. i. 165[347].)

The general level of the verse is not high, but we now and again
light on some pleasing lines such as the following:
My dearest love, fair as the eastern morn As it breaks o'er the
plains when summer's born, Hanging bright liquid pearls on every
tree, New life and hope imparting, as to me Thy presence brings
delight, so fresh and rare As May's first breath, dispensing such
sweet air The Phoenix does expire in; sit, while I play The cunning
thief, and steal thy heart away, And thou shalt stand as judge to
censure me.

(p. 18.)
So again there is some grace in a song which catches perhaps a
distant echo of Peele's gem:
_Gloriana._ Sit, while I do gather flowers And depopulate the bowers.

Here's a kiss will come to thee!

_Lysander._ Give me one, I'll give thee three!

_Both._ Thus in harmless sport we may Pass the idle hours away.

_Gloriana._ Hark!

hark, how fine The birds do chime!

And pretty Philomel Her moan doth tell.

(p. 22.)
Another of these miniature pastorals is preserved in a British
Museum manuscript, where it bears the title of _The Converted
Robber_.[348] No author's name appears, but a plausible conjecture
may be advanced.

The scene of the piece, namely, is Stonehenge, and it is evident
that the occasion on which it was first performed had some connexion
with Salisbury, for there is obviously a topical allusion in the
final words:
Lett us that do noe envy beare um Wish all felicity to Sarum.

Now in 1636,[349] according to Anthony à Wood, there was acted at St.

John's College, Oxford, a play by John Speed, entitled _Stonehenge_,
the occasion being the return of Dr.

Richard Baylie after his installation as Dean of Salisbury.

We can hardly be far wrong in identifying the two pieces.

The only difficulty is that in the manuscript the play is dated 1637.
This, however, may either be a mere slip of the scribe, or may
possibly imply that the piece was produced in 1636-7, the scribe
adopting the popular and modern, whereas Wood always adhered to the
old or legal reckoning.

The piece possesses a certain interest from the fact of its forming,
in a stricter sense than any of the other pieces we have examined,
a link between the drama and the masque.

In this it somewhat resembles _Comus_, employing a more or less
dramatic plot as the setting for the formai dances of the masque.[350]
The story is simple enough.

A band of robbers and a company of shepherds and shepherdesses keep
on Salisbury Plain in the neighbourhood of Stonehenge--'stoy[=n]age
y^{e} wonder y^{t} is vpon that Playne of Sarum'--which forms the
background of the scene.

It chanced that the shepherdess Clarinda, falling into the hands
of the robbers, was saved from dishonour by their chief Alcinous, an
action which won for him her love, and having escaped, she returned
dressed as a boy in order to serve him.

Meanwhile the robbers have decided to make a raid upon the shepherd
folk, and Alcinous, disguising himself as a stranger shepherd, mixes
among them, while his companions Autolicus and Conto lie in wait
hard by.

During a festival Alcinous seeks the love of Castina, Clarinda's
sister, and finding her unmoved by entreaty threatens force.

At this she attempts to stab herself, and the robber chief is so
struck that he vows to reform and is converted to the pastoral life.

His companions, left in the lurch, fall upon the shepherds of their own
accord, but are soon brought to see reason by the hand and tongue
of their chief, and are content to follow him in his conversion.

Clarinda now discovers herself and marries Alcinous, while Castina
and her fellow shepherdess Avonia consent to reward their faithful
swains, Palaemon and Dorus.

In this piece there is a rather conspicuous absence of motive and dramatic
construction, the author claiming apparently the freedom of the masque.

The verse is mainly octosyllabic, sometimes blank, but the rough accentual
'rime' is also used.

Decasyllabics are rare.

There is also some prose in the comic part sustained by Autolicus
and Conto and the aged clown Jarbus, as well as a certain amount
of Spenserian archaism, and a good deal of dialect.

Whether comic or romantic, the characters are singularly out of keeping
with their surroundings, while the conceit of paganizing the Christian
worship appears to be carried to ludicrous lengths, until one recollects
that it depends almost entirely upon the substitution of the name
of Pan for that of the Deity--a process no doubt facilitated by false
etymology. Thus Christ, who is spoken of by name, is called 'Pannes
blest babe.' After describing the foundation of Salisbury Cathedral,
the old shepherd proceeds:

But sturdy shepherds brought all the other stones, And reard up that great
Munster all at once, Wher shepherds each one, both woman and man,
Do come to worship theyr great God Pann.

A rustic show formed the first part of an entertainment witnessed by
Charles and Henrietta Maria at Richmond, after their return from
a visit to Oxford in 1636.

A clown named Tom comes in bearing a present for the queen, and is
on the point of being unceremoniously removed by the usher, when
he espies Mr.

Edward Sackville, to whom he appeals, and a dialogue ensues between
the two.

After he has offered his present, Madge, Doll, and Richard come in, and
the four perform a country dance.

They are all plain Wiltshire rustics who talk a broad vernacular, but
at the end a shepherd and shepherdess enter and sing a duet in a
more courtly strain.

The author of this slight production is not known, but it is regarded
by the latest authority on masques as an imitation, in the looseness
of its construction, of Davenant's _Prince d'Amour_.[351]
Little poetic ability was displayed by Heywood on the only occasion
on which he introduced pastoral tradition into a Lord Mayor's
pageant.

The 'first show by land' of the _Porta Pietatis_, presented by the drapers
in 1638 on the occasion of Sir Maurice Abbot's mayoralty, consisted
of a speech by a shepherd, which is preceded in the printed copy
by a short account of the properties, natural history, and general
usefulness of sheep, as well as of their peculiar importance in
relation to the craft honoured in the person of the newly appointed
Lieutenant of the city of London.

Heywood was famous for his wide, miscellaneous, and often startling
information.

We have already seen how, in the first blush and budding of the
Elizabethan spring, George Peele treated the tale of the judgement
of Paris; on the same legend Heywood based one of his semi-dramatic
dialogues; it remains to be seen how, in the late autumn of the
great age of our dramatic literature, Shirley returned to the same
theme in his _Triumph of Beauty_, privately produced about 1640.

It is a regular masque, for which the familiar story serves as a
thread; the goddesses and their symbolical attendants, or else the
Graces and the Hours with Hymen and Delight, performing the dances,
while a company of rustic swains of Ida, who come to relieve the
melancholy of the princely shepherd, form a comic antimasque.

It has, however, grown to the proportions of a small play.

The comic characters also study a piece on the subject of the golden
fleece, reminiscent, like _Narcissus_, of the _Midsummer Night's
Dream_.

This, as Mr. Fleay supposes, may well be satirical of some of the city
pageants, though it is best to be cautious in discovering definite
allusions.

But the success of such a piece as the present, in so far as it was
dependent on the _libretto_, demanded a power of light and graceful
lyric versification which was not conspicuous among the many gifts
of the author.

The comic business is frankly amusing, but the long speeches of the
goddesses can hardly have appeared less tedious to a contemporary audience
than they do to the reader to-day.

I may also notice here a regular short pastoral in three acts,
inserted by Robert Baron in his romance [Greek: E)rotopai/gnion],
_or the Cyprian Academy_, printed in 1647.

It is entitled _Gripus and Hegio, or the Passionate Lovers_, and relates
the loves of these characters for Mira and Daris; while we also
find the familiar roguish boy, less amusing and of stricter propriety
than usual; a chorus of fairies who discourse classical myth; Venus,
Cupid, Hymen, and Echo; and the habitual concomitants of pastoral
commonplace.

The romance also contains a masque entitled _Deorum Dona_, in which
figure allegorical abstractions such as Fame, Fortune, and the like.

It is in no wise pastoral.

Another pastoral show of some elaboration, and of a higher order of
poetry than most of those we have been considering, is Sir William
Denny's _Shepherds' Holiday_, printed from manuscript in the _Inedited
Poetical Miscellany_ of 1870. The piece appears to date from 1653, and
is only slightly dramatic so far as plot is concerned. It is of an
allegorical cast, the various characters typifying certain virtues,
or rather temperaments--virginity, love and so forth--as is elaborately
expounded in the preface.

A few slight pieces by the quondam actor Robert Cox, partaking more or
less of the character of masques, possess a certain pastoral colouring.

This is the case, for instance, in the _Acteon and Diana_, published
in 1656.[352] The piece opens with the humours of the would-be
lover Bumpkin, a huntsman, and the dance of the country lasses round
the May-pole.

"It's all for you--and if it only takes a quarter
of an hour you'll be lucky!"

Dinner was a nightmare. They had the smelly dining-room to themselves.
Lilia, very smart and vociferous, was at the head of the table; Miss
Abbott, also in her best, sat by Philip, looking, to his irritated
nerves, more like the tragedy confidante every moment. That scion of the
Italian nobility, Signor Carella, sat opposite. Behind him loomed a bowl
of goldfish, who swam round and round, gaping at the guests.

The face of Signor Carella was twitching too much for Philip to study
it. But he could see the hands, which were not particularly clean, and
did not get cleaner by fidgeting amongst the shining slabs of hair.
His starched cuffs were not clean either, and as for his suit, it had
obviously been bought for the occasion as something really English--a
gigantic check, which did not even fit. His handkerchief he had
forgotten, but never missed it. Altogether, he was quite unpresentable,
and very lucky to have a father who was a dentist in Monteriano. And
why, even Lilia--But as soon as the meal began it furnished Philip with
an explanation.

For the youth was hungry, and his lady filled his plate with spaghetti,
and when those delicious slippery worms were flying down his throat, his
face relaxed and became for a moment unconscious and calm. And Philip
had seen that face before in Italy a hundred times--seen it and loved
it, for it was not merely beautiful, but had the charm which is the
rightful heritage of all who are born on that soil. But he did not want
to see it opposite him at dinner. It was not the face of a gentleman.

Conversation, to give it that name, was carried on in a mixture of
English and Italian. Lilia had picked up hardly any of the latter
language, and Signor Carella had not yet learnt any of the former.
Occasionally Miss Abbott had to act as interpreter between the lovers,
and the situation became uncouth and revolting in the extreme. Yet
Philip was too cowardly to break forth and denounce the engagement. He
thought he should be more effective with Lilia if he had her alone,
and pretended to himself that he must hear her defence before giving
judgment.

Signor Carella, heartened by the spaghetti and the throat-rasping wine,
attempted to talk, and, looking politely towards Philip, said, "England
is a great country. The Italians love England and the English."

Philip, in no mood for international amenities, merely bowed.

"Italy too," the other continued a little resentfully, "is a great
country. She has produced many famous men--for example Garibaldi and
Dante. The latter wrote the 'Inferno,' the 'Purgatorio,' the 'Paradiso.'
The 'Inferno' is the most beautiful." And with the complacent tone of
one who has received a solid education, he quoted the opening lines--

  Nel mezzo del cammin di nostra vita
  Mi ritrovai per una selva oscura
  Che la diritta via era smarrita--

a quotation which was more apt than he supposed.

Lilia glanced at Philip to see whether he noticed that she was
marrying no ignoramus. Anxious to exhibit all the good qualities of her
betrothed, she abruptly introduced the subject of pallone, in which,
it appeared, he was a proficient player. He suddenly became shy and
developed a conceited grin--the grin of the village yokel whose cricket
score is mentioned before a stranger. Philip himself had loved to watch
pallone, that entrancing combination of lawn-tennis and fives. But he
did not expect to love it quite so much again.

"Oh, look!" exclaimed Lilia, "the poor wee fish!"

A starved cat had been worrying them all for pieces of the purple
quivering beef they were trying to swallow. Signor Carella, with the
brutality so common in Italians, had caught her by the paw and flung her
away from him. Now she had climbed up to the bowl and was trying to
hook out the fish. He got up, drove her off, and finding a large glass
stopper by the bowl, entirely plugged up the aperture with it.

"But may not the fish die?" said Miss Abbott. "They have no air."

"Fish live on water, not on air," he replied in a knowing voice, and sat
down. Apparently he was at his ease again, for he took to spitting on
the floor. Philip glanced at Lilia but did not detect her wincing. She
talked bravely till the end of the disgusting meal, and then got up
saying, "Well, Philip, I am sure you are ready for by-bye. We shall meet
at twelve o'clock lunch tomorrow, if we don't meet before. They give us
caffe later in our rooms."

It was a little too impudent. Philip replied, "I should like to see you
now, please, in my room, as I have come all the way on business." He
heard Miss Abbott gasp. Signor Carella, who was lighting a rank cigar,
had not understood.

It was as he expected. When he was alone with Lilia he lost all
nervousness. The remembrance of his long intellectual supremacy
strengthened him, and he began volubly--

"My dear Lilia, don't let's have a scene. Before I arrived I thought I
might have to question you. It is unnecessary. I know everything. Miss
Abbott has told me a certain amount, and the rest I see for myself."

"See for yourself?" she exclaimed, and he remembered afterwards that she
had flushed crimson.

"That he is probably a ruffian and certainly a cad."

"There are no cads in Italy," she said quickly.

He was taken aback. It was one of his own remarks. And she further upset
him by adding, "He is the son of a dentist. Why not?"

"Thank you for the information. I know everything, as I told you before.
I am also aware of the social position of an Italian who pulls teeth in
a minute provincial town."

He was not aware of it, but he ventured to conclude that it was pretty,
low. Nor did Lilia contradict him. But she was sharp enough to say,
"Indeed, Philip, you surprise me. I understood you went in for equality
and so on."

"And I understood that Signor Carella was a member of the Italian
nobility."

"Well, we put it like that in the telegram so as not to shock dear Mrs.
Herriton. But it is true. He is a younger branch. Of course families
ramify--just as in yours there is your cousin Joseph." She adroitly
picked out the only undesirable member of the Herriton clan. "Gino's
father is courtesy itself, and rising rapidly in his profession. This
very month he leaves Monteriano, and sets up at Poggibonsi. And for
my own poor part, I think what people are is what matters, but I don't
suppose you'll agree. And I should like you to know that Gino's uncle is
a priest--the same as a clergyman at home."

Philip was aware of the social position of an Italian priest, and said
so much about it that Lilia interrupted him with, "Well, his cousin's a
lawyer at Rome."

"What kind of 'lawyer'?"

"Why, a lawyer just like you are--except that he has lots to do and can
never get away."

The remark hurt more than he cared to show. He changed his method, and
in a gentle, conciliating tone delivered the following speech:--

"The whole thing is like a bad dream--so bad that it cannot go on. If
there was one redeeming feature about the man I might be uneasy. As it
is I can trust to time. For the moment, Lilia, he has taken you in,
but you will find him out soon. It is not possible that you, a lady,
accustomed to ladies and gentlemen, will tolerate a man whose position
is--well, not equal to the son of the servants' dentist in Coronation
Place. I am not blaming you now. But I blame the glamour of Italy--I
have felt it myself, you know--and I greatly blame Miss Abbott."

"Caroline! Why blame her? What's all this to do with Caroline?"

"Because we expected her to--" He saw that the answer would involve him
in difficulties, and, waving his hand, continued, "So I am confident,
and you in your heart agree, that this engagement will not last. Think
of your life at home--think of Irma! And I'll also say think of us; for
you know, Lilia, that we count you more than a relation. I should feel
I was losing my own sister if you did this, and my mother would lose a
daughter."

She seemed touched at last, for she turned away her face and said, "I
can't break it off now!"

"Poor Lilia," said he, genuinely moved. "I know it may be painful. But
I have come to rescue you, and, book-worm though I may be, I am not
frightened to stand up to a bully. He's merely an insolent boy. He
thinks he can keep you to your word by threats. He will be different
when he sees he has a man to deal with."

What follows should be prefaced with some simile--the simile of a
powder-mine, a thunderbolt, an earthquake--for it blew Philip up in the
air and flattened him on the ground and swallowed him up in the depths.
Lilia turned on her gallant defender and said--

"For once in my life I'll thank you to leave me alone. I'll thank your
mother too. For twelve years you've trained me and tortured me, and I'll
stand it no more. Do you think I'm a fool? Do you think I never felt?
Ah! when I came to your house a poor young bride, how you all looked me
over--never a kind word--and discussed me, and thought I might just do;
and your mother corrected me, and your sister snubbed me, and you said
funny things about me to show how clever you were! And when Charles died
I was still to run in strings for the honour of your beastly family,
and I was to be cooped up at Sawston and learn to keep house, and all my
chances spoilt of marrying again. No, thank you! No, thank you! 'Bully?'
'Insolent boy?' Who's that, pray, but you? But, thank goodness, I can
stand up against the world now, for I've found Gino, and this time I
marry for love!"

The coarseness and truth of her attack alike overwhelmed him. But her
supreme insolence found him words, and he too burst forth.

"Yes! and I forbid you to do it! You despise me, perhaps, and think
I'm feeble. But you're mistaken. You are ungrateful and impertinent and
contemptible, but I will save you in order to save Irma and our name.
There is going to be such a row in this town that you and he'll be sorry
you came to it. I shall shrink from nothing, for my blood is up. It is
unwise of you to laugh. I forbid you to marry Carella, and I shall tell
him so now."

"Do," she cried. "Tell him so now. Have it out with him. Gino! Gino!
Come in! Avanti! Fra Filippo forbids the banns!"

Gino appeared so quickly that he must have been listening outside the
door.

"Fra Filippo's blood's up. He shrinks from nothing. Oh, take care he
doesn't hurt you!" She swayed about in vulgar imitation of Philip's
walk, and then, with a proud glance at the square shoulders of her
betrothed, flounced out of the room.

Did she intend them to fight? Philip had no intention of doing so; and
no more, it seemed, had Gino, who stood nervously in the middle of the
room with twitching lips and eyes.

"Please sit down, Signor Carella," said Philip in Italian. "Mrs.
Herriton is rather agitated, but there is no reason we should not be
calm. Might I offer you a cigarette? Please sit down."

He refused the cigarette and the chair, and remained standing in the
full glare of the lamp. Philip, not averse to such assistance, got his
own face into shadow.

For a long time he was silent. It might impress Gino, and it also gave
him time to collect himself. He would not this time fall into the error
of blustering, which he had caught so unaccountably from Lilia. He would
make his power felt by restraint.

Why, when he looked up to begin, was Gino convulsed with silent
laughter? It vanished immediately; but he became nervous, and was even
more pompous than he intended.

"Signor Carella, I will be frank with you. I have come to prevent you
marrying Mrs. Herriton, because I see you will both be unhappy together.
She is English, you are Italian; she is accustomed to one thing, you to
another. And--pardon me if I say it--she is rich and you are poor."

"I am not marrying her because she is rich," was the sulky reply.

"I never suggested that for a moment," said Philip courteously. "You are
honourable, I am sure; but are you wise? And let me remind you that we
want her with us at home. Her little daughter will be motherless,
our home will be broken up. If you grant my request you will earn our
thanks--and you will not be without a reward for your disappointment."

"Reward--what reward?" He bent over the back of a chair and looked
earnestly at Philip. They were coming to terms pretty quickly. Poor
Lilia!

Philip said slowly, "What about a thousand lire?"

His soul went forth into one exclamation, and then he was silent, with
gaping lips. Philip would have given double: he had expected a bargain.

"You can have them tonight."

He found words, and said, "It is too late."

"But why?"

"Because--" His voice broke. Philip watched his face,--a face without
refinement perhaps, but not without expression,--watched it quiver and
re-form and dissolve from emotion into emotion. There was avarice at one
moment, and insolence, and politeness, and stupidity, and cunning--and
let us hope that sometimes there was love. But gradually one emotion
dominated, the most unexpected of all; for his chest began to heave and
his eyes to wink and his mouth to twitch, and suddenly he stood erect
and roared forth his whole being in one tremendous laugh.

Philip sprang up, and Gino, who had flung wide his arms to let the
glorious creature go, took him by the shoulders and shook him, and said,
"Because we are married--married--married as soon as I knew you were,
coming. There was no time to tell you. Oh. oh! You have come all the way
for nothing. Oh! And oh, your generosity!" Suddenly he became grave, and
said, "Please pardon me; I am rude. I am no better than a peasant, and
I--" Here he saw Philip's face, and it was too much for him. He gasped
and exploded and crammed his hands into his mouth and spat them out in
another explosion, and gave Philip an aimless push, which toppled him on
to the bed. He uttered a horrified Oh! and then gave up, and bolted away
down the passage, shrieking like a child, to tell the joke to his wife.

For a time Philip lay on the bed, pretending to himself that he was hurt
grievously. He could scarcely see for temper, and in the passage he ran
against Miss Abbott, who promptly burst into tears.

"I sleep at the Globo," he told her, "and start for Sawston tomorrow
morning early. He has assaulted me. I could prosecute him. But shall
not."

"I can't stop here," she sobbed. "I daren't stop here. You will have to
take me with you!"


Chapter 3

Opposite the Volterra gate of Monteriano, outside the city, is a very
respectable white-washed mud wall, with a coping of red crinkled tiles
to keep it from dissolution. It would suggest a gentleman's garden if
there was not in its middle a large hole, which grows larger with every
rain-storm. Through the hole is visible, firstly, the iron gate that is
intended to close it; secondly, a square piece of ground which, though
not quite, mud, is at the same time not exactly grass; and finally,
another wall, stone this time, which has a wooden door in the middle and
two wooden-shuttered windows each side, and apparently forms the facade
of a one-storey house.

This house is bigger than it looks, for it slides for two storeys down
the hill behind, and the wooden door, which is always locked, really
leads into the attic. The knowing person prefers to follow the
precipitous mule-track round the turn of the mud wall till he can take
the edifice in the rear. Then--being now on a level with the cellars--he
lifts up his head and shouts. If his voice sounds like something
light--a letter, for example, or some vegetables, or a bunch of
flowers--a basket is let out of the first-floor windows by a string,
into which he puts his burdens and departs. But if he sounds like
something heavy, such as a log of wood, or a piece of meat, or a
visitor, he is interrogated, and then bidden or forbidden to ascend.
The ground floor and the upper floor of that battered house are alike
deserted, and the inmates keep the central portion, just as in a dying
body all life retires to the heart. There is a door at the top of the
first flight of stairs, and if the visitor is admitted he will find a
welcome which is not necessarily cold. There are several rooms, some
dark and mostly stuffy--a reception-room adorned with horsehair chairs,
wool-work stools, and a stove that is never lit--German bad taste
without German domesticity broods over that room; also a living-room,
which insensibly glides into a bedroom when the refining influence of
hospitality is absent, and real bedrooms; and last, but not least, the
loggia, where you can live day and night if you feel inclined, drinking
vermouth and smoking cigarettes, with leagues of olive-trees and
vineyards and blue-green hills to watch you.

It was in this house that the brief and inevitable tragedy of Lilia's
married life took place. She made Gino buy it for her, because it was
there she had first seen him sitting on the mud wall that faced the
Volterra gate. She remembered how the evening sun had struck his hair,
and how he had smiled down at her, and being both sentimental and
unrefined, was determined to have the man and the place together. Things
in Italy are cheap for an Italian, and, though he would have preferred
a house in the piazza, or better still a house at Siena, or, bliss above
bliss, a house at Leghorn, he did as she asked, thinking that perhaps
she showed her good taste in preferring so retired an abode.

The house was far too big for them, and there was a general concourse of
his relatives to fill it up. His father wished to make it a patriarchal
concern, where all the family should have their rooms and meet together
for meals, and was perfectly willing to give up the new practice at
Poggibonsi and preside. Gino was quite willing too, for he was an
affectionate youth who liked a large home-circle, and he told it as
a pleasant bit of news to Lilia, who did not attempt to conceal her
horror.

At once he was horrified too; saw that the idea was monstrous; abused
himself to her for having suggested it; rushed off to tell his father
that it was impossible. His father complained that prosperity was
already corrupting him and making him unsympathetic and hard; his mother
cried; his sisters accused him of blocking their social advance. He
was apologetic, and even cringing, until they turned on Lilia. Then
he turned on them, saying that they could not understand, much less
associate with, the English lady who was his wife; that there should be
one master in that house--himself.

Lilia praised and petted him on his return, calling him brave and a hero
and other endearing epithets. But he was rather blue when his clan left
Monteriano in much dignity--a dignity which was not at all impaired
by the acceptance of a cheque. They took the cheque not to Poggibonsi,
after all, but to Empoli--a lively, dusty town some twenty miles off.
There they settled down in comfort, and the sisters said they had been
driven to it by Gino.

The cheque was, of course, Lilia's, who was extremely generous, and was
quite willing to know anybody so long as she had not to live with them,
relations-in-law being on her nerves. She liked nothing better than
finding out some obscure and distant connection--there were several of
them--and acting the lady bountiful, leaving behind her bewilderment,
and too often discontent. Gino wondered how it was that all his people,
who had formerly seemed so pleasant, had suddenly become plaintive
and disagreeable. He put it down to his lady wife's magnificence, in
comparison with which all seemed common. Her money flew apace, in
spite of the cheap living. She was even richer than he expected; and he
remembered with shame how he had once regretted his inability to accept
the thousand lire that Philip Herriton offered him in exchange for her.
It would have been a shortsighted bargain.

Lilia enjoyed settling into the house, with nothing to do except give
orders to smiling workpeople, and a devoted husband as interpreter. She
wrote a jaunty account of her happiness to Mrs. Herriton, and Harriet
answered the letter, saying (1) that all future communications should be
addressed to the solicitors; (2) would Lilia return an inlaid box which
Harriet had lent her--but not given--to keep handkerchiefs and collars
in?

"Look what I am giving up to live with you!" she said to Gino, never
omitting to lay stress on her condescension. He took her to mean the
inlaid box, and said that she need not give it up at all.

"Silly fellow, no! I mean the life. Those Herritons are very well
connected. They lead Sawston society. But what do I care, so long as I
have my silly fellow!" She always treated him as a boy, which he was,
and as a fool, which he was not, thinking herself so immeasurably
superior to him that she neglected opportunity after opportunity of
establishing her rule. He was good-looking and indolent; therefore he
must be stupid. He was poor; therefore he would never dare to criticize
his benefactress. He was passionately in love with her; therefore she
could do exactly as she liked.

"It mayn't be heaven below," she thought, "but it's better than
Charles."

And all the time the boy was watching her, and growing up.

She was reminded of Charles by a disagreeable letter from the
solicitors, bidding her disgorge a large sum of money for Irma, in
accordance with her late husband's will. It was just like Charles's
suspicious nature to have provided against a second marriage. Gino was
equally indignant, and between them they composed a stinging reply,
which had no effect. He then said that Irma had better come out and live
with them. "The air is good, so is the food; she will be happy here, and
we shall not have to part with the money." But Lilia had not the courage
even to suggest this to the Herritons, and an unexpected terror seized
her at the thought of Irma or any English child being educated at
Monteriano.

Gino became terribly depressed over the solicitors' letter, more
depressed than she thought necessary. There was no more to do in the
house, and he spent whole days in the loggia leaning over the parapet or
sitting astride it disconsolately.

"Oh, you idle boy!" she cried, pinching his muscles. "Go and play
pallone."

"I am a married man," he answered, without raising his head. "I do not
play games any more."

"Go and see your friends then."

"I have no friends now."

"Silly, silly, silly! You can't stop indoors all day!"

"I want to see no one but you." He spat on to an olive-tree.

"Now, Gino, don't be silly. Go and see your friends, and bring them to
see me. We both of us like society."

He looked puzzled, but allowed himself to be persuaded, went out, found
that he was not as friendless as he supposed, and returned after several
hours in altered spirits. Lilia congratulated herself on her good
management.

"I'm ready, too, for people now," she said. "I mean to wake you all up,
just as I woke up Sawston. Let's have plenty of men--and make them bring
their womenkind. I mean to have real English tea-parties."

"There is my aunt and her husband; but I thought you did not want to
receive my relatives."

"I never said such a--"

"But you would be right," he said earnestly. "They are not for you.
Many of them are in trade, and even we are little more; you should have
gentlefolk and nobility for your friends."

"Poor fellow," thought Lilia. "It is sad for him to discover that his
people are vulgar." She began to tell him that she loved him just for
his silly self, and he flushed and began tugging at his moustache.

"But besides your relatives I must have other people here. Your friends
have wives and sisters, haven't they?"

"Oh, yes; but of course I scarcely know them."

"Not know your friends' people?"

"Why, no. If they are poor and have to work for their living I may see
them--but not otherwise. Except--" He stopped. The chief exception was
a young lady, to whom he had once been introduced for matrimonial
purposes. But the dowry had proved inadequate, and the acquaintance
terminated.

"How funny! But I mean to change all that. Bring your friends to see me,
and I will make them bring their people."

He looked at her rather hopelessly.

"Well, who are the principal people here? Who leads society?"

The governor of the prison, he supposed, and the officers who assisted
him.

"Well, are they married?"

"Yes."

"There we are. Do you know them?"

"Yes--in a way."

"I see," she exclaimed angrily. "They look down on you, do they, poor
boy? Wait!" He assented. "Wait! I'll soon stop that. Now, who else is
there?"

"The marchese, sometimes, and the canons of the Collegiate Church."

"Married?"

"The canons--" he began with twinkling eyes.

"Oh, I forgot your horrid celibacy. In England they would be the centre
of everything. But why shouldn't I know them? Would it make it easier if
I called all round? Isn't that your foreign way?"

He did not think it would make it easier.

"But I must know some one! Who were the men you were talking to this
afternoon?"

Low-class men. He could scarcely recollect their names.

"But, Gino dear, if they're low class, why did you talk to them? Don't
you care about your position?"

All Gino cared about at present was idleness and pocket-money, and his
way of expressing it was to exclaim, "Ouf-pouf! How hot it is in here.
No air; I sweat all over. I expire. I must cool myself, or I shall never
get to sleep." In his funny abrupt way he ran out on to the loggia,
where he lay full length on the parapet, and began to smoke and spit
under the silence of the stars.

Lilia gathered somehow from this conversation that Continental society
was not the go-as-you-please thing she had expected. Indeed she could
not see where Continental society was. Italy is such a delightful place
to live in if you happen to be a man. There one may enjoy that exquisite
luxury of Socialism--that true Socialism which is based not on equality
of income or character, but on the equality of manners. In the democracy
of the caffe or the street the great question of our life has been
solved, and the brotherhood of man is a reality. But is accomplished at
the expense of the sisterhood of women. Why should you not make friends
with your neighbour at the theatre or in the train, when you know and
he knows that feminine criticism and feminine insight and feminine
prejudice will never come between you? Though you become as David and
Jonathan, you need never enter his home, nor he yours. All your lives
you will meet under the open air, the only roof-tree of the South, under
which he will spit and swear, and you will drop your h's, and nobody
will think the worse of either.

Meanwhile the women--they have, of course, their house and their church,
with its admirable and frequent services, to which they are escorted by
the maid. Otherwise they do not go out much, for it is not genteel to
walk, and you are too poor to keep a carriage. Occasionally you will
take them to the caffe or theatre, and immediately all your wonted
acquaintance there desert you, except those few who are expecting
and expected to marry into your family. It is all very sad. But one
consolation emerges--life is very pleasant in Italy if you are a man.

Hitherto Gino had not interfered with Lilia. She was so much older than
he was, and so much richer, that he regarded her as a superior being who
answered to other laws. He was not wholly surprised, for strange rumours
were always blowing over the Alps of lands where men and women had the
same amusements and interests, and he had often met that privileged
maniac, the lady tourist, on her solitary walks. Lilia took solitary
walks too, and only that week a tramp had grabbed at her watch--an
episode which is supposed to be indigenous in Italy, though really less
frequent there than in Bond Street. Now that he knew her better, he
was inevitably losing his awe: no one could live with her and keep it,
especially when she had been so silly as to lose a gold watch and chain.
As he lay thoughtful along the parapet, he realized for the first time
the responsibilities of monied life. He must save her from dangers,
physical and social, for after all she was a woman. "And I," he
reflected, "though I am young, am at all events a man, and know what is
right."

He found her still in the living-room, combing her hair, for she had
something of the slattern in her nature, and there was no need to keep
up appearances.

"You must not go out alone," he said gently. "It is not safe. If you
want to walk, Perfetta shall accompany you." Perfetta was a widowed
cousin, too humble for social aspirations, who was living with them as
factotum.

"Very well," smiled Lilia, "very well"--as if she were addressing a
solicitous kitten. But for all that she never took a solitary walk
again, with one exception, till the day of her death.

Days passed, and no one called except poor relatives. She began to feel
dull. Didn't he know the Sindaco or the bank manager? Even the landlady
of the Stella d'Italia would be better than no one. She, when she went
into the town, was pleasantly received; but people naturally found a
difficulty in getting on with a lady who could not learn their language.
And the tea-party, under Gino's adroit management, receded ever and ever
before her.

He had a good deal of anxiety over her welfare, for she did not
settle down in the house at all. But he was comforted by a welcome and
unexpected visitor. As he was going one afternoon for the letters--they
were delivered at the door, but it took longer to get them at the
office--some one humorously threw a cloak over his head, and when he
disengaged himself he saw his very dear friend Spiridione Tesi of the
custom-house at Chiasso, whom he had not met for two years. What joy!
what salutations! so that all the passersby smiled with approval on the
amiable scene. Spiridione's brother was now station-master at Bologna,
and thus he himself could spend his holiday travelling over Italy at the
public expense. Hearing of Gino's marriage, he had come to see him on
his way to Siena, where lived his own uncle, lately monied too.

"They all do it," he exclaimed, "myself excepted." He was not quite
twenty-three. "But tell me more. She is English. That is good, very
good. An English wife is very good indeed. And she is rich?"

"Immensely rich."

"Blonde or dark?"

"Blonde."

"Is it possible!"

"It pleases me very much," said Gino simply. "If you remember, I always
desired a blonde." Three or four men had collected, and were listening.

"We all desire one," said Spiridione. "But you, Gino, deserve your good
fortune, for you are a good son, a brave man, and a true friend, and
from the very first moment I saw you I wished you well."

"No compliments, I beg," said Gino, standing with his hands crossed on
his chest and a smile of pleasure on his face.

Spiridione addressed the other men, none of whom he had ever seen
before. "Is it not true? Does not he deserve this wealthy blonde?"

"He does deserve her," said all the men.

It is a marvellous land, where you love it or hate it.

There were no letters, and of course they sat down at the Caffe
Garibaldi, by the Collegiate Church--quite a good caffe that for so
small a city. There were marble-topped tables, and pillars terra-cotta
below and gold above, and on the ceiling was a fresco of the battle of
Solferino. One could not have desired a prettier room. They had vermouth
and little cakes with sugar on the top, which they chose gravely at
the counter, pinching them first to be sure they were fresh. And though
vermouth is barely alcoholic, Spiridione drenched his with soda-water to
be sure that it should not get into his head.

They were in high spirits, and elaborate compliments alternated
curiously with gentle horseplay. But soon they put up their legs on a
pair of chairs and began to smoke.

"Tell me," said Spiridione--"I forgot to ask--is she young?"

"Thirty-three."

"Ah, well, we cannot have everything."

"But you would be surprised. Had she told me twenty-eight, I should not
have disbelieved her."

"Is she SIMPATICA?" (Nothing will translate that word.)

Gino dabbed at the sugar and said after a silence, "Sufficiently so."

"It is a most important thing."

"She is rich, she is generous, she is affable, she addresses her
inferiors without haughtiness."

There was another silence. "It is not sufficient," said the other. "One
does not define it thus." He lowered his voice to a whisper. "Last month
a German was smuggling cigars. The custom-house was dark. Yet I
refused because I did not like him. The gifts of such men do not bring
happiness. NON ERA SIMPATICO. He paid for every one, and the fine for
deception besides."

"Do you gain much beyond your pay?" asked Gino, diverted for an instant.

"I do not accept small sums now. It is not worth the risk. But the
German was another matter. But listen, my Gino, for I am older than
you and more full of experience. The person who understands us at first
sight, who never irritates us, who never bores, to whom we can pour
forth every thought and wish, not only in speech but in silence--that is
what I mean by SIMPATICO."

"There are such men, I know," said Gino. "And I have heard it said of
children. But where will you find such a woman?"

"That is true. Here you are wiser than I. SONO POCO SIMPATICHE LE DONNE.
And the time we waste over them is much." He sighed dolefully, as if he
found the nobility of his sex a burden.

"One I have seen who may be so. She spoke very little, but she was a
young lady--different to most. She, too, was English, the companion of
my wife here. But Fra Filippo, the brother-in-law, took her back with
him. I saw them start. He was very angry."

Then he spoke of his exciting and secret marriage, and they made fun of
the unfortunate Philip, who had travelled over Europe to stop it.

"I regret though," said Gino, when they had finished laughing, "that I
toppled him on to the bed. A great tall man! And when I am really amused
I am often impolite."

"You will never see him again," said Spiridione, who carried plenty of
philosophy about him. "And by now the scene will have passed from his
mind."

"It sometimes happens that such things are recollected longest. I shall
never see him again, of course; but it is no benefit to me that he
should wish me ill. And even if he has forgotten, I am still sorry that
I toppled him on to the bed."

So their talk continued, at one moment full of childishness and
tender wisdom, the next moment scandalously gross. The shadows of the
terra-cotta pillars lengthened, and tourists, flying through the Palazzo
Pubblico opposite, could observe how the Italians wasted time.

The sight of tourists reminded Gino of something he might say. "I
want to consult you since you are so kind as to take an interest in my
affairs. My wife wishes to take solitary walks."

Spiridione was shocked.

"But I have forbidden her."

"Naturally."

"She does not yet understand. She asked me to accompany her
sometimes--to walk without object! You know, she would like me to be
with her all day."

"I see. I see." He knitted his brows and tried to think how he could
help his friend. "She needs employment. Is she a Catholic?"

"No."

"That is a pity. She must be persuaded. It will be a great solace to her
when she is alone."

"I am a Catholic, but of course I never go to church."

"Of course not. Still, you might take her at first. That is what my
brother has done with his wife at Bologna and he has joined the Free
Thinkers. He took her once or twice himself, and now she has acquired
the habit and continues to go without him."

"Most excellent advice, and I thank you for it. But she wishes to give
tea-parties--men and women together whom she has never seen."

"Oh, the English! they are always thinking of tea. They carry it by the
kilogramme in their trunks, and they are so clumsy that they always pack
it at the top. But it is absurd!"

"What am I to do about it?"

"Do nothing. Or ask me!"

"Come!" cried Gino, springing up. "She will be quite pleased."

The dashing young fellow coloured crimson. "Of course I was only
joking."

"I know. But she wants me to take my friends. Come now! Waiter!"

"If I do come," cried the other, "and take tea with you, this bill must
be my affair."

"Certainly not; you are in my country!"

A long argument ensued, in which the waiter took part, suggesting
various solutions. At last Gino triumphed. The bill came to
eightpence-halfpenny, and a halfpenny for the waiter brought it up
to ninepence. Then there was a shower of gratitude on one side and of
deprecation on the other, and when courtesies were at their height they
suddenly linked arms and swung down the street, tickling each other with
lemonade straws as they went.

Lilia was delighted to see them, and became more animated than Gino had
known her for a long time. The tea tasted of chopped hay, and they asked
to be allowed to drink it out of a wine-glass, and refused milk; but, as
she repeatedly observed, this was something like. Spiridione's manners
were very agreeable. He kissed her hand on introduction, and as his
profession had taught him a little English, conversation did not flag.

"Do you like music?" she asked.

"Passionately," he replied. "I have not studied scientific music, but
the music of the heart, yes."

So she played on the humming piano very badly, and he sang, not so
badly. Gino got out a guitar and sang too, sitting out on the loggia. It
was a most agreeable visit.

Gino said he would just walk his friend back to his lodgings. As they
went he said, without the least trace of malice or satire in his voice,
"I think you are quite right. I shall not bring people to the house any
more. I do not see why an English wife should be treated differently.
This is Italy."

"You are very wise," exclaimed the other; "very wise indeed. The more
precious a possession the more carefully it should be guarded."

They had reached the lodging, but went on as far as the Caffe Garibaldi,
where they spent a long and most delightful evening.


Chapter 4

The advance of regret can be so gradual that it is impossible to say
"yesterday I was happy, today I am not." At no one moment did Lilia
realize that her marriage was a failure; yet during the summer and
autumn she became as unhappy as it was possible for her nature to be.
She had no unkind treatment, and few unkind words, from her husband.
He simply left her alone. In the morning he went out to do "business,"
which, as far as she could discover, meant sitting in the Farmacia. He
usually returned to lunch, after which he retired to another room and
slept. In the evening he grew vigorous again, and took the air on
the ramparts, often having his dinner out, and seldom returning till
midnight or later. There were, of course, the times when he was away
altogether--at Empoli, Siena, Florence, Bologna--for he delighted in
travel, and seemed to pick up friends all over the country. Lilia often
heard what a favorite he was.

She began to see that she must assert herself, but she could not see
how. Her self-confidence, which had overthrown Philip, had gradually
oozed away. If she left the strange house there was the strange little
town. If she were to disobey her husband and walk in the country, that
would be stranger still--vast slopes of olives and vineyards, with
chalk-white farms, and in the distance other slopes, with more olives
and more farms, and more little towns outlined against the cloudless
sky. "I don't call this country," she would say. "Why, it's not as wild
as Sawston Park!" And, indeed, there was scarcely a touch of wildness
in it--some of those slopes had been under cultivation for two thousand
years. But it was terrible and mysterious all the same, and its
continued presence made Lilia so uncomfortable that she forgot her
nature and began to reflect.

She reflected chiefly about her marriage. The ceremony had been hasty
and expensive, and the rites, whatever they were, were not those of the
Church of England. Lilia had no religion in her; but for hours at a
time she would be seized with a vulgar fear that she was not "married
properly," and that her social position in the next world might be as
obscure as it was in this. It might be safer to do the thing thoroughly,
and one day she took the advice of Spiridione and joined the Roman
Catholic Church, or as she called it, "Santa Deodata's." Gino approved;
he, too, thought it safer, and it was fun confessing, though the priest
was a stupid old man, and the whole thing was a good slap in the face
for the people at home.

The people at home took the slap very soberly; indeed, there were few
left for her to give it to. The Herritons were out of the question;
they would not even let her write to Irma, though Irma was occasionally
allowed to write to her. Mrs. Theobald was rapidly subsiding into
dotage, and, as far as she could be definite about anything, had
definitely sided with the Herritons. And Miss Abbott did likewise. Night
after night did Lilia curse this false friend, who had agreed with her
that the marriage would "do," and that the Herritons would come round to
it, and then, at the first hint of opposition, had fled back to England
shrieking and distraught. Miss Abbott headed the long list of those who
should never be written to, and who should never be forgiven. Almost
the only person who was not on that list was Mr. Kingcroft, who had
unexpectedly sent an affectionate and inquiring letter. He was quite
sure never to cross the Channel, and Lilia drew freely on her fancy in
the reply.

At first she had seen a few English people, for Monteriano was not the
end of the earth. One or two inquisitive ladies, who had heard at home
of her quarrel with the Herritons, came to call. She was very sprightly,
and they thought her quite unconventional, and Gino a charming boy, so
all that was to the good. But by May the season, such as it was, had
finished, and there would be no one till next spring. As Mrs. Herriton
had often observed, Lilia had no resources. She did not like music, or
reading, or work. Her one qualification for life was rather blowsy
high spirits, which turned querulous or boisterous according to
circumstances. She was not obedient, but she was cowardly, and in the
most gentle way, which Mrs. Herriton might have envied, Gino made her do
what he wanted. At first it had been rather fun to let him get the upper
hand. But it was galling to discover that he could not do otherwise. He
had a good strong will when he chose to use it, and would not have had
the least scruple in using bolts and locks to put it into effect. There
was plenty of brutality deep down in him, and one day Lilia nearly
touched it.

It was the old question of going out alone.

"I always do it in England."

"This is Italy."

"Yes, but I'm older than you, and I'll settle."

"I am your husband," he said, smiling. They had finished their mid-day
meal, and he wanted to go and sleep. Nothing would rouse him up, until
at last Lilia, getting more and more angry, said, "And I've got the
money."

He looked horrified.

Now was the moment to assert herself. She made the statement again. He
got up from his chair.

"And you'd better mend your manners," she continued, "for you'd find it
awkward if I stopped drawing cheques."

She was no reader of character, but she quickly became alarmed. As she
said to Perfetta afterwards, "None of his clothes seemed to fit--too
big in one place, too small in another." His figure rather than his face
altered, the shoulders falling forward till his coat wrinkled across the
back and pulled away from his wrists. He seemed all arms. He edged round
the table to where she was sitting, and she sprang away and held the
chair between them, too frightened to speak or to move. He looked at her
with round, expressionless eyes, and slowly stretched out his left hand.

Perfetta was heard coming up from the kitchen. It seemed to wake him up,
and he turned away and went to his room without a word.

"What has happened?" cried Lilia, nearly fainting. "He is ill--ill."

Perfetta looked suspicious when she heard the account. "What did you say
to him?" She crossed herself.

"Hardly anything," said Lilia and crossed herself also. Thus did the two
women pay homage to their outraged male.

It was clear to Lilia at last that Gino had married her for money. But
he had frightened her too much to leave any place for contempt. His
return was terrifying, for he was frightened too, imploring her pardon,
lying at her feet, embracing her, murmuring "It was not I," striving to
define things which he did not understand. He stopped in the house
for three days, positively ill with physical collapse. But for all his
suffering he had tamed her, and she never threatened to cut off supplies
again.

Perhaps he kept her even closer than convention demanded. But he was
very young, and he could not bear it to be said of him that he did
not know how to treat a lady--or to manage a wife. And his own social
position was uncertain. Even in England a dentist is a troublesome
creature, whom careful people find difficult to class. He hovers between
the professions and the trades; he may be only a little lower than the
doctors, or he may be down among the chemists, or even beneath them. The
son of the Italian dentist felt this too. For himself nothing mattered;
he made friends with the people he liked, for he was that glorious
invariable creature, a man. But his wife should visit nowhere rather
than visit wrongly: seclusion was both decent and safe. The social
ideals of North and South had had their brief contention, and this time
the South had won.

It would have been well if he had been as strict over his own behaviour
as he was over hers. But the incongruity never occurred to him for
a moment. His morality was that of the average Latin, and as he was
suddenly placed in the position of a gentleman, he did not see why he
should not behave as such. Of course, had Lilia been different--had
she asserted herself and got a grip on his character--he might
possibly--though not probably--have been made a better husband as well
as a better man, and at all events he could have adopted the attitude of
the Englishman, whose standard is higher even when his practice is the
same. But had Lilia been different she might not have married him.

The discovery of his infidelity--which she made by accident--destroyed
such remnants of self-satisfaction as her life might yet possess. She
broke down utterly and sobbed and cried in Perfetta's arms. Perfetta was
kind and even sympathetic, but cautioned her on no account to speak to
Gino, who would be furious if he was suspected. And Lilia agreed, partly
because she was afraid of him, partly because it was, after all, the
best and most dignified thing to do. She had given up everything for
him--her daughter, her relatives, her friends, all the little comforts
and luxuries of a civilized life--and even if she had the courage to
break away, there was no one who would receive her now. The Herritons
had been almost malignant in their efforts against her, and all her
friends had one by one fallen off. So it was better to live on humbly,
trying not to feel, endeavouring by a cheerful demeanour to put things
right. "Perhaps," she thought, "if I have a child he will be different.
I know he wants a son."

Lilia had achieved pathos despite herself, for there are some situations
in which vulgarity counts no longer. Not Cordelia nor Imogen more
deserves our tears.

She herself cried frequently, making herself look plain and old, which
distressed her husband. He was particularly kind to her when he hardly
ever saw her, and she accepted his kindness without resentment, even
with gratitude, so docile had she become. She did not hate him, even as
she had never loved him; with her it was only when she was excited that
the semblance of either passion arose. People said she was headstrong,
but really her weak brain left her cold.

Suffering, however, is more independent of temperament, and the wisest
of women could hardly have suffered more.

As for Gino, he was quite as boyish as ever, and carried his iniquities
like a feather. A favourite speech of his was, "Ah, one ought to marry!
Spiridione is wrong; I must persuade him. Not till marriage does one
realize the pleasures and the possibilities of life." So saying, he
would take down his felt hat, strike it in the right place as infallibly
as a German strikes his in the wrong place, and leave her.

One evening, when he had gone out thus, Lilia could stand it no longer.
It was September. Sawston would be just filling up after the summer
holidays. People would be running in and out of each other's houses
all along the road. There were bicycle gymkhanas, and on the 30th Mrs.
Herriton would be holding the annual bazaar in her garden for the C.M.S.
It seemed impossible that such a free, happy life could exist. She
walked out on to the loggia. Moonlight and stars in a soft purple sky.
The walls of Monteriano should be glorious on such a night as this. But
the house faced away from them.

Perfetta was banging in the kitchen, and the stairs down led past the
kitchen door. But the stairs up to the attic--the stairs no one ever
used--opened out of the living-room, and by unlocking the door at the
top one might slip out to the square terrace above the house, and thus
for ten minutes walk in freedom and peace.

The key was in the pocket of Gino's best suit--the English check--which
he never wore. The stairs creaked and the key-hole screamed; but
Perfetta was growing deaf. The walls were beautiful, but as they faced
west they were in shadow. To see the light upon them she must walk round
the town a little, till they were caught by the beams of the rising
moon. She looked anxiously at the house, and started.

It was easy walking, for a little path ran all outside the ramparts.
The few people she met wished her a civil good-night, taking her, in her
hatless condition, for a peasant. The walls trended round towards the
moon; and presently she came into its light, and saw all the rough
towers turn into pillars of silver and black, and the ramparts
into cliffs of pearl. She had no great sense of beauty, but she was
sentimental, and she began to cry; for here, where a great cypress
interrupted the monotony of the girdle of olives, she had sat with Gino
one afternoon in March, her head upon his shoulder, while Caroline was
looking at the view and sketching. Round the corner was the Siena gate,
from which the road to England started, and she could hear the rumble of
the diligence which was going down to catch the night train to Empoli.
The next moment it was upon her, for the highroad came towards her a
little before it began its long zigzag down the hill.

The driver slackened, and called to her to get in. He did not know who
she was. He hoped she might be coming to the station.

"Non vengo!" she cried.

He wished her good-night, and turned his horses down the corner. As the
diligence came round she saw that it was empty.

"Vengo..."

Her voice was tremulous, and did not carry. The horses swung off.

"Vengo! Vengo!"

He had begun to sing, and heard nothing. She ran down the road screaming
to him to stop--that she was coming; while the distance grew greater
and the noise of the diligence increased. The man's back was black and
square against the moon, and if he would but turn for an instant she
would be saved. She tried to cut off the corner of the zigzag, stumbling
over the great clods of earth, large and hard as rocks, which lay
between the eternal olives. She was too late; for, just before she
regained the road, the thing swept past her, thunderous, ploughing up
choking clouds of moonlit dust.

She did not call any more, for she felt very ill, and fainted; and when
she revived she was lying in the road, with dust in her eyes, and dust
in her mouth, and dust down her ears. There is something very terrible
in dust at night-time.

"What shall I do?" she moaned. "He will be so angry."

And without further effort she slowly climbed back to captivity, shaking
her garments as she went.

Ill luck pursued her to the end. It was one of the nights when Gino
happened to come in. He was in the kitchen, swearing and smashing
plates, while Perfetta, her apron over her head, was weeping violently.
At the sight of Lilia he turned upon her and poured forth a flood of
miscellaneous abuse. He was far more angry but much less alarming than
he had been that day when he edged after her round the table. And Lilia
gained more courage from her bad conscience than she ever had from her
good one, for as he spoke she was seized with indignation and feared him
no longer, and saw him for a cruel, worthless, hypocritical, dissolute
upstart, and spoke in return.

Perfetta screamed for she told him everything--all she knew and all
she thought. He stood with open mouth, all the anger gone out of
him, feeling ashamed, and an utter fool. He was fairly and rightfully
cornered. When had a husband so given himself away before? She finished;
and he was dumb, for she had spoken truly. Then, alas! the absurdity of
his own position grew upon him, and he laughed--as he would have laughed
at the same situation on the stage.

"You laugh?" stammered Lilia.

"Ah!" he cried, "who could help it? I, who thought you knew and saw
nothing--I am tricked--I am conquered. I give in. Let us talk of it no
more."

He touched her on the shoulder like a good comrade, half amused and half
penitent, and then, murmuring and smiling to himself, ran quietly out of
the room.

Perfetta burst into congratulations. "What courage you have!" she cried;
"and what good fortune! He is angry no longer! He has forgiven you!"

Neither Perfetta, nor Gino, nor Lilia herself knew the true reason of
all the misery that followed. To the end he thought that kindness and a
little attention would be enough to set things straight. His wife was
a very ordinary woman, and why should her ideas differ from his own?
No one realized that more than personalities were engaged; that the
struggle was national; that generations of ancestors, good, bad, or
indifferent, forbad the Latin man to be chivalrous to the northern
woman, the northern woman to forgive the Latin man. All this might have
been foreseen: Mrs. Herriton foresaw it from the first.

Meanwhile Lilia prided herself on her high personal standard, and Gino
simply wondered why she did not come round. He hated discomfort and
yearned for sympathy, but shrank from mentioning his difficulties in the
town in case they were put down to his own incompetence. Spiridione was
told, and replied in a philosophical but not very helpful letter. His
other great friend, whom he trusted more, was still serving in Eritrea
or some other desolate outpost. And, besides, what was the good of
letters? Friends cannot travel through the post.

Lilia, so similar to her husband in many ways, yearned for comfort and
sympathy too. The night he laughed at her she wildly took up paper and
pen and wrote page after page, analysing his character, enumerating his
iniquities, reporting whole conversations, tracing all the causes and
the growth of her misery. She was beside herself with passion,
and though she could hardly think or see, she suddenly attained to
magnificence and pathos which a practised stylist might have envied. It
was written like a diary, and not till its conclusion did she realize
for whom it was meant.

"Irma, darling Irma, this letter is for you. I almost forgot I have a
daughter. It will make you unhappy, but I want you to know everything,
and you cannot learn things too soon. God bless you, my dearest, and
save you. God bless your miserable mother."

Fortunately Mrs. Herriton was in when the letter arrived. She seized
it and opened it in her bedroom. Another moment, and Irma's placid
childhood would have been destroyed for ever.

Lilia received a brief note from Harriet, again forbidding direct
communication between mother and daughter, and concluding with formal
condolences. It nearly drove her mad.

"Gently! gently!" said her husband. They were sitting together on the
loggia when the letter arrived. He often sat with her now, watching her
for hours, puzzled and anxious, but not contrite.

"It's nothing." She went in and tore it up, and then began to write--a
very short letter, whose gist was "Come and save me."

It is not good to see your wife crying when she writes--especially if
you are conscious that, on the whole, your treatment of her has been
reasonable and kind. It is not good, when you accidentally look over her
shoulder, to see that she is writing to a man. Nor should she shake her
fist at you when she leaves the room, under the impression that you are
engaged in lighting a cigar and cannot see her.

Lilia went to the post herself. But in Italy so many things can be
arranged. The postman was a friend of Gino's, and Mr. Kingcroft never
got his letter.

So she gave up hope, became ill, and all through the autumn lay in bed.
Gino was distracted. She knew why; he wanted a son. He could talk and
think of nothing else. His one desire was to become the father of a man
like himself, and it held him with a grip he only partially understood,
for it was the first great desire, the first great passion of his life.
Falling in love was a mere physical triviality, like warm sun or cool
water, beside this divine hope of immortality: "I continue." He gave
candles to Santa Deodata, for he was always religious at a crisis, and
sometimes he went to her himself and prayed the crude uncouth demands of
the simple. Impetuously he summoned all his relatives back to bear him
company in his time of need, and Lilia saw strange faces flitting past
her in the darkened room.

"My love!" he would say, "my dearest Lilia! Be calm. I have never loved
any one but you."

She, knowing everything, would only smile gently, too broken by
suffering to make sarcastic repartees.

Before the child was born he gave her a kiss, and said, "I have prayed
all night for a boy."

Some strangely tender impulse moved her, and she said faintly, "You are
a boy yourself, Gino."

He answered, "Then we shall be brothers."

He lay outside the room with his head against the door like a dog. When
they came to tell him the glad news they found him half unconscious, and
his face was wet with tears.

As for Lilia, some one said to her, "It is a beautiful boy!" But she had
died in giving birth to him.


Chapter 5

At the time of Lilia's death Philip Herriton was just twenty-four years
of age--indeed the news reached Sawston on his birthday. He was a tall,
weakly-built young man, whose clothes had to be judiciously padded
on the shoulders in order to make him pass muster. His face was plain
rather than not, and there was a curious mixture in it of good and bad.
He had a fine forehead and a good large nose, and both observation
and sympathy were in his eyes. But below the nose and eyes all was
confusion, and those people who believe that destiny resides in the
mouth and chin shook their heads when they looked at him.

Philip himself, as a boy, had been keenly conscious of these defects.
Sometimes when he had been bullied or hustled about at school he would
retire to his cubicle and examine his features in a looking-glass, and
he would sigh and say, "It is a weak face. I shall never carve a place
for myself in the world." But as years went on he became either less
self-conscious or more self-satisfied. The world, he found, made a
niche for him as it did for every one. Decision of character might come
later--or he might have it without knowing. At all events he had got
a sense of beauty and a sense of humour, two most desirable gifts. The
sense of beauty developed first. It caused him at the age of twenty to
wear parti-coloured ties and a squashy hat, to be late for dinner on
account of the sunset, and to catch art from Burne-Jones to Praxiteles.
At twenty-two he went to Italy with some cousins, and there he absorbed
into one aesthetic whole olive-trees, blue sky, frescoes, country inns,
saints, peasants, mosaics, statues, beggars. He came back with the air
of a prophet who would either remodel Sawston or reject it. All the
energies and enthusiasms of a rather friendless life had passed into the
championship of beauty.

In a short time it was over. Nothing had happened either in Sawston or
within himself. He had shocked half-a-dozen people, squabbled with his
sister, and bickered with his mother. He concluded that nothing could
happen, not knowing that human love and love of truth sometimes conquer
where love of beauty fails.

A little disenchanted, a little tired, but aesthetically intact, he
resumed his placid life, relying more and more on his second gift, the
gift of humour. If he could not reform the world, he could at all
events laugh at it, thus attaining at least an intellectual superiority.
Laughter, he read and believed, was a sign of good moral health, and he
laughed on contentedly, till Lilia's marriage toppled contentment down
for ever. Italy, the land of beauty, was ruined for him. She had no
power to change men and things who dwelt in her. She, too, could produce
avarice, brutality, stupidity--and, what was worse, vulgarity. It was on
her soil and through her influence that a silly woman had married a cad.
He hated Gino, the betrayer of his life's ideal, and now that the sordid
tragedy had come, it filled him with pangs, not of sympathy, but of
final disillusion.

The disillusion was convenient for Mrs. Herriton, who saw a trying
little period ahead of her, and was glad to have her family united.

"Are we to go into mourning, do you think?" She always asked her
children's advice where possible.

Harriet thought that they should. She had been detestable to Lilia
while she lived, but she always felt that the dead deserve attention
and sympathy. "After all she has suffered. That letter kept me awake for
nights. The whole thing is like one of those horrible modern plays where
no one is in 'the right.' But if we have mourning, it will mean telling
Irma."

"Of course we must tell Irma!" said Philip.

"Of course," said his mother. "But I think we can still not tell her
about Lilia's marriage."

"I don't think that. And she must have suspected something by now."

"So one would have supposed. But she never cared for her mother, and
little girls of nine don't reason clearly. She looks on it as a long
visit. And it is important, most important, that she should not receive
a shock. All a child's life depends on the ideal it has of its parents.
Destroy that and everything goes--morals, behaviour, everything.
Absolute trust in some one else is the essence of education. That is why
I have been so careful about talking of poor Lilia before her."

"But you forget this wretched baby. Waters and Adamson write that there
is a baby."

"Mrs. Theobald must be told. But she doesn't count. She is breaking
up very quickly. She doesn't even see Mr. Kingcroft now. He, thank
goodness, I hear, has at last consoled himself with someone else."

"The child must know some time," persisted Philip, who felt a little
displeased, though he could not tell with what.

"The later the better. Every moment she is developing."

"I must say it seems rather hard luck, doesn't it?"

"On Irma? Why?"

"On us, perhaps. We have morals and behaviour also, and I don't think
this continual secrecy improves them."

"There's no need to twist the thing round to that," said Harriet, rather
disturbed.

"Of course there isn't," said her mother. "Let's keep to the main issue.
This baby's quite beside the point. Mrs. Theobald will do nothing, and
it's no concern of ours."

"It will make a difference in the money, surely," said he.

"No, dear; very little. Poor Charles provided for every kind of
contingency in his will. The money will come to you and Harriet, as
Irma's guardians."

"Good. Does the Italian get anything?"

"He will get all hers. But you know what that is."

"Good. So those are our tactics--to tell no one about the baby, not even
Miss Abbott."

"Most certainly this is the proper course," said Mrs. Herriton,
preferring "course" to "tactics" for Harriet's sake. "And why ever
should we tell Caroline?"

"She was so mixed up in the affair."

"Poor silly creature. The less she hears about it the better she will be
pleased. I have come to be very sorry for Caroline. She, if any one,
has suffered and been penitent. She burst into tears when I told her a
little, only a little, of that terrible letter. I never saw such genuine
remorse. We must forgive her and forget. Let the dead bury their dead.
We will not trouble her with them."

Philip saw that his mother was scarcely logical. But there was no
advantage in saying so. "Here beginneth the New Life, then. Do you
remember, mother, that was what we said when we saw Lilia off?"

"Yes, dear; but now it is really a New Life, because we are all at
accord. Then you were still infatuated with Italy. It may be full
of beautiful pictures and churches, but we cannot judge a country by
anything but its men."

"That is quite true," he said sadly. And as the tactics were now
settled, he went out and took an aimless and solitary walk.

By the time he came back two important things had happened. Irma had
been told of her mother's death, and Miss Abbott, who had called for a
subscription, had been told also.

Irma had wept loudly, had asked a few sensible questions and a good many
silly ones, and had been content with evasive answers. Fortunately the
school prize-giving was at hand, and that, together with the prospect of
new black clothes, kept her from meditating on the fact that Lilia, who
had been absent so long, would now be absent for ever.

"As for Caroline," said Mrs. Herriton, "I was almost frightened. She
broke down utterly. She cried even when she left the house. I comforted
her as best I could, and I kissed her. It is something that the breach
between her and ourselves is now entirely healed."

"Did she ask no questions--as to the nature of Lilia's death, I mean?"

"She did. But she has a mind of extraordinary delicacy. She saw that I
was reticent, and she did not press me. You see, Philip, I can say to
you what I could not say before Harriet. Her ideas are so crude. Really
we do not want it known in Sawston that there is a baby. All peace and
comfort would be lost if people came inquiring after it."

His mother knew how to manage him. He agreed enthusiastically. And a few
days later, when he chanced to travel up to London with Miss Abbott,
he had all the time the pleasant thrill of one who is better informed.
Their last journey together had been from Monteriano back across
Europe. It had been a ghastly journey, and Philip, from the force of
association, rather expected something ghastly now.

He was surprised. Miss Abbott, between Sawston and Charing Cross,
revealed qualities which he had never guessed her to possess. Without
being exactly original, she did show a commendable intelligence, and
though at times she was gauche and even uncourtly, he felt that here was
a person whom it might be well to cultivate.

At first she annoyed him. They were talking, of course, about Lilia,
when she broke the thread of vague commiseration and said abruptly, "It
is all so strange as well as so tragic. And what I did was as strange as
anything."

It was the first reference she had ever made to her contemptible
behaviour. "Never mind," he said. "It's all over now. Let the dead bury
their dead. It's fallen out of our lives."

"But that's why I can talk about it and tell you everything I have
always wanted to. You thought me stupid and sentimental and wicked and
mad, but you never really knew how much I was to blame."

"Indeed I never think about it now," said Philip gently. He knew that
her nature was in the main generous and upright: it was unnecessary for
her to reveal her thoughts.

"The first evening we got to Monteriano," she persisted, "Lilia went out
for a walk alone, saw that Italian in a picturesque position on a wall,
and fell in love. He was shabbily dressed, and she did not even know
he was the son of a dentist. I must tell you I was used to this sort
of thing. Once or twice before I had had to send people about their
business."

"Yes; we counted on you," said Philip, with sudden sharpness. After all,
if she would reveal her thoughts, she must take the consequences.

"I know you did," she retorted with equal sharpness. "Lilia saw him
several times again, and I knew I ought to interfere. I called her to
my bedroom one night. She was very frightened, for she knew what it was
about and how severe I could be. 'Do you love this man?' I asked. 'Yes
or no?' She said 'Yes.' And I said, 'Why don't you marry him if you
think you'll be happy?'"

"Really--really," exploded Philip, as exasperated as if the thing had
happened yesterday. "You knew Lilia all your life. Apart from everything
else--as if she could choose what could make her happy!"

"Had you ever let her choose?" she flashed out. "I'm afraid that's
rude," she added, trying to calm herself.

"Let us rather say unhappily expressed," said Philip, who always adopted
a dry satirical manner when he was puzzled.

"I want to finish. Next morning I found Signor Carella and said the same
to him. He--well, he was willing. That's all."

"And the telegram?" He looked scornfully out of the window.

Hitherto her voice had been hard, possibly in self-accusation, possibly
in defiance. Now it became unmistakably sad. "Ah, the telegram! That was
wrong. Lilia there was more cowardly than I was. We should have told the
truth. It lost me my nerve, at all events. I came to the station meaning
to tell you everything then. But we had started with a lie, and I got
frightened. And at the end, when you left, I got frightened again and
came with you."

"Did you really mean to stop?"

"For a time, at all events."

"Would that have suited a newly married pair?"

"It would have suited them. Lilia needed me. And as for him--I can't
help feeling I might have got influence over him."

"I am ignorant of these matters," said Philip; "but I should have
thought that would have increased the difficulty of the situation."

The crisp remark was wasted on her. She looked hopelessly at the raw
over-built country, and said, "Well, I have explained."

"But pardon me, Miss Abbott; of most of your conduct you have given a
description rather than an explanation."

He had fairly caught her, and expected that she would gape and collapse.
To his surprise she answered with some spirit, "An explanation may bore
you, Mr. Herriton: it drags in other topics."

"Oh, never mind."

"I hated Sawston, you see."

He was delighted. "So did and do I. That's splendid. Go on."

"I hated the idleness, the stupidity, the respectability, the petty
unselfishness."

"Petty selfishness," he corrected. Sawston psychology had long been his
specialty.

"Petty unselfishness," she repeated. "I had got an idea that every one
here spent their lives in making little sacrifices for objects they
didn't care for, to please people they didn't love; that they never
learnt to be sincere--and, what's as bad, never learnt how to enjoy
themselves. That's what I thought--what I thought at Monteriano."

"Why, Miss Abbott," he cried, "you should have told me this before!
Think it still! I agree with lots of it. Magnificent!"

"Now Lilia," she went on, "though there were things about her I didn't
like, had somehow kept the power of enjoying herself with sincerity. And
Gino, I thought, was splendid, and young, and strong not only in body,
and sincere as the day. If they wanted to marry, why shouldn't they do
so? Why shouldn't she break with the deadening life where she had got
into a groove, and would go on in it, getting more and more--worse
than unhappy--apathetic till she died? Of course I was wrong. She only
changed one groove for another--a worse groove. And as for him--well,
you know more about him than I do. I can never trust myself to judge
characters again. But I still feel he cannot have been quite bad when
we first met him. Lilia--that I should dare to say it!--must have been
cowardly. He was only a boy--just going to turn into something fine,
I thought--and she must have mismanaged him. So that is the one time I
have gone against what is proper, and there are the results. You have an
explanation now."

"And much of it has been most interesting, though I don't understand
everything. Did you never think of the disparity of their social
position?"

"We were mad--drunk with rebellion. We had no common-sense. As soon as
you came, you saw and foresaw everything."

"Oh, I don't think that." He was vaguely displeased at being credited
with common-sense. For a moment Miss Abbott had seemed to him more
unconventional than himself.

"I hope you see," she concluded, "why I have troubled you with this long
story. Women--I heard you say the other day--are never at ease till they
tell their faults out loud. Lilia is dead and her husband gone to
the bad--all through me. You see, Mr. Herriton, it makes me specially
unhappy; it's the only time I've ever gone into what my father calls
'real life'--and look what I've made of it! All that winter I seemed to
be waking up to beauty and splendour and I don't know what; and when the
spring came, I wanted to fight against the things I hated--mediocrity
and dulness and spitefulness and society. I actually hated society for
a day or two at Monteriano. I didn't see that all these things are
invincible, and that if we go against them they will break us to pieces.
Thank you for listening to so much nonsense."

"Oh, I quite sympathize with what you say," said Philip encouragingly;
"it isn't nonsense, and a year or two ago I should have been saying it
too. But I feel differently now, and I hope that you also will change.
Society is invincible--to a certain degree. But your real life is your
own, and nothing can touch it. There is no power on earth that can
prevent your criticizing and despising mediocrity--nothing that can stop
you retreating into splendour and beauty--into the thoughts and beliefs
that make the real life--the real you."

"I have never had that experience yet. Surely I and my life must be
where I live."

Evidently she had the usual feminine incapacity for grasping philosophy.
But she had developed quite a personality, and he must see more of her.
"There is another great consolation against invincible mediocrity," he
said--"the meeting a fellow-victim. I hope that this is only the first
of many discussions that we shall have together."

She made a suitable reply. The train reached Charing Cross, and they
parted,--he to go to a matinee, she to buy petticoats for the corpulent
poor. Her thoughts wandered as she bought them: the gulf between herself
and Mr. Herriton, which she had always known to be great, now seemed to
her immeasurable.

These events and conversations took place at Christmas-time. The
New Life initiated by them lasted some seven months. Then a little
incident--a mere little vexatious incident--brought it to its close.

Irma collected picture post-cards, and Mrs. Herriton or Harriet always
glanced first at all that came, lest the child should get hold of
something vulgar. On this occasion the subject seemed perfectly
inoffensive--a lot of ruined factory chimneys--and Harriet was about to
hand it to her niece when her eye was caught by the words on the margin.
She gave a shriek and flung the card into the grate. Of course no fire
was alight in July, and Irma only had to run and pick it out again.

"How dare you!" screamed her aunt. "You wicked girl! Give it here!"

Unfortunately Mrs. Herriton was out of the room. Irma, who was not in
awe of Harriet, danced round the table, reading as she did so, "View of
the superb city of Monteriano--from your lital brother."

Stupid Harriet caught her, boxed her ears, and tore the post-card into
fragments. Irma howled with pain, and began shouting indignantly, "Who
is my little brother? Why have I never heard of him before? Grandmamma!
Grandmamma! Who is my little brother? Who is my--"

Mrs. Herriton swept into the room, saying, "Come with me, dear, and I
will tell you. Now it is time for you to know."

Irma returned from the interview sobbing, though, as a matter of
fact, she had learnt very little. But that little took hold of her
imagination. She had promised secrecy--she knew not why. But what harm
in talking of the little brother to those who had heard of him already?

"Aunt Harriet!" she would say. "Uncle Phil! Grandmamma! What do you
suppose my little brother is doing now? Has he begun to play? Do Italian
babies talk sooner than us, or would he be an English baby born
abroad? Oh, I do long to see him, and be the first to teach him the Ten
Commandments and the Catechism."

The last remark always made Harriet look grave.

"Really," exclaimed Mrs. Herriton, "Irma is getting too tiresome. She
forgot poor Lilia soon enough."

"A living brother is more to her than a dead mother," said Philip
dreamily. "She can knit him socks."

"I stopped that. She is bringing him in everywhere. It is most
vexatious. The other night she asked if she might include him in the
people she mentions specially in her prayers."

"What did you say?"

"Of course I allowed her," she replied coldly. "She has a right to
mention any one she chooses. But I was annoyed with her this morning,
and I fear that I showed it."

"And what happened this morning?"

"She asked if she could pray for her 'new father'--for the Italian!"

"Did you let her?"

"I got up without saying anything."

"You must have felt just as you did when I wanted to pray for the
devil."

"He is the devil," cried Harriet.

"No, Harriet; he is too vulgar."

"I will thank you not to scoff against religion!" was Harriet's retort.
"Think of that poor baby. Irma is right to pray for him. What an
entrance into life for an English child!"

But oh! the heavy change; now the very caves and woods mourn his
loss. Where then were the Muses, that their loved poet should die? And
yet what could they do for Lycidas, who had no power to shield
Orpheus himself,
When by the rout that made the hideous roar, His goary visage down
the stream was sent, Down the swift Hebrus to the Lesbian shore.

What then avails the poet's toil? Were it not better to taste the sweets
of love as they offer themselves since none can count on reward in
this life?

The prize, however, lies elsewhere--
Fame is no plant that grows on mortal soil.

But such thoughts are too lofty for the swains of Arethusa and
Mincius.

Listen rather as the herald of the sea questions the god of winds about
the fatal wreck. It was no storm drove the ill-starred boat to
destruction:

The Ayr was calm, and on the level brine, Sleek Panope with all her
sisters play'd, 
sounds the reply.

Next, footing slow, comes the tutelary deity of Alma Mater, and in one
sad cry mourns the promise of a life so soon cut short.
Lastly, 'The Pilot of the Galilean lake,' with denunciation of the
corrupt hirelings of a venal age, laments the loss of the church
in the death of Lycidas.

As his solemn figure passes by, the gracious fantasies of pastoral
landscape shrink away: now
Return Alpheus, the dread voice is past, That shrunk thy streams,
bid the nymphs bring flowers of every hue,
To strew the Laureat Herse where Lycid lies--
and yet indeed even this comfort is denied, we dally with false
imaginings,
Whilst thee the shores, and sounding Seas Wash far away, where ere
thy bones are hurld, Whether beyond the stormy Hebrides, Where thou
perhaps under the whelming tide Visit'st the bottom of the monstrous
world, 
or on the Cornish coast,
Where the great vision of the guarded Mount Looks toward Namancos
and Bayona's hold.

But enough!

Weep no more, woful Shepherds weep no more, For Lycidas your sorrow
is not dead, Sunk though he be beneath the watry floar, So sinks
the day-star in the Ocean bed, And yet anon repairs his drooping
head, And tricks his beams, and with new spangled Ore, Flames in
the forehead of the morning sky.

On this note the elegy ends, and there follow eight lines in which the
poet glances at his own pastoral self that has been singing, and realizes
that the world will go on even though Lycidas be no more, and that
there are other calls in life than that of piping on an oaten reed.

These lines correspond to the plain stanzaic frames in which Spenser
set his lyrics in the _Shepherd's Calender_:
Thus sang the uncouth Swain to th' Okes and rills, While the still
morn went out with Sandals gray, He touch'd the tender stops of
various Quills, With eager thought warbling his Dorick lay:
And now the Sun had stretch'd out all the hills, And now was dropt
into the Western bay; At last he rose, and twitch'd his Mantle
blew:
To morrow to fresh Woods, and Pastures new.

The poem, in common with the whole class of allegorical pastorals, is
undoubtedly open to the charge of artificiality, since, in truth,
the pastoral garb can never illustrate, but only distort and obscure
subjects drawn from other orders of civilization.

Yet none but a great master could, to produce a desired effect, have
utilized every association which tradition afforded with the
consummate skill observable in Milton's poem.

He has been blamed for the introduction of St.

Peter, on the ground of incongruity; but he has tradition on his
side.

St. Peter, as we have already seen, figures, under the name of
Pamphilus, in the eclogues of Petrarch, and his introduction
by Milton is in nicest keeping with the spirit of the kind. The whole
poem, and indeed a great deal more, must stand or fall with the
Pilot of the Galilean Lake, for to censure his introduction here is to
condemn the whole pastoral tradition of three centuries, a judgement which
may or may not be just, but which is not a criticism on Milton's
poem. So again with the flowers that are to be strewn on the laureate
hearse. Three kinds of berries and eleven kinds of flowers are
mentioned, and it has been pointed out with painful accuracy that
nine of the latter would have been over, and none of the former
ripe on August 11, when King was drowned; while all the flowers,
with the exception of the amaranth, if it were of the true breed,
would have been dead and rotten in November, when the poem was
presumably written.

It would be foolish to quarrel with Milton on this point, since where all
is imaginary such licence is as natural as the strictest botany; yet it
must not be forgotten that it is just this disseverance from actuality
that has made the eclogue the type of all that is frigid and artificial
in literature.

The dissatisfaction felt by many with _Lycidas_ was voiced
by Dr. Johnson, when he wrote: 'It is not to be considered the effusion
of real passion, for passion runs not after remote allusions and
obscure opinions.... Where there is leisure for fiction there is little
grief[134].' This is so absolutely true, with regard to the present poem
at all events, that it would appear hardly worth saying were it
not that there have always been found persons to maintain the
contrary.

There is no reason whatever to suppose that Milton felt any keen personal
grief at the death of Edward King. There is nothing spontaneous, nothing,
one might almost say, genuine in the lament. This is indeed strictly
irrelevant to the question of its artistic merit, but it must
nevertheless be admitted that there is thus much justice in the
censure, that the poem purports to be the expression of an intimate
sorrow, of the reality of which the reader is never wholly convinced.

In so far as it lacks this 'soul-compelling power,' it may be said, not
unfairly, to fail of its own artistic purpose.

One further question, however, inevitably presents itself when we
have to consider such a work as _Lycidas_, a work, that is, in
which art has attained the highest perfection in one particular kind.
Although the objections urged against the individual poem may be shown
to miss their mark as criticisms on that poem, may they not have
force as criticisms on the class?

The allegorical pastoral, though in one sense, as I have said, created
by Vergil, was yet, in another, a plant of slow growth, and
represents a tradition gradually evolved to meet the needs of a
long line of poets.

Petrarch, Mantuan, Marot, Spenser were more than mere imitators of
Vergil or of one another; they wrote in a particular form because
it answered to particular requirements, and they fashioned it in
the using.

Nevertheless it may be urged with undoubted force, that the requirements
were not primarily of an artistic nature, being ever governed by some
alien purpose, and that consequently the form which evolved itself
in answer to those requirements and to fulfil that purpose, was not
by nature calculated to yield the highest artistic results.

And thus, though any attempt to question the perfection of the art
which Milton brought to the composition of his elegy must needs be
foredoomed to failure, the question of the propriety of the form
as an artistic medium remains open; and in so far as critical opinion
tends to give an unfavourable answer, in so far does the form of
pastoral instituted by Vergil and handed down without break from
the fourteenth century to Milton's own time stand condemned in its
most perfect flower.

Few things could be less like _Lycidas_ than the work which next
claims our attention.

Unique of its kind, and, in spite of its shortcomings, possessed
of no small poetic interest, William Browne's _Britannia's Pastorals_
may be regarded at pleasure either as a pastoral epic or as a
versified romance.

It resembles the prose romances in being by nature discursive,
episodic and inconsequent, and like not a few it remained unfinished.

Little would be gained by giving any detailed analysis of the plot
developed through the leisurely amplitude of its 10,000 lines,
while any attempt to deal, however slightly, with the sources and
literary analogues of the work would lead us far beyond the scope
of the present chapter[135].

With regard to the latter, it must suffice to note that among the works
to which incidents can be directly traced are Tasso's _Gerusalemme_,
Montemayor's _Diana_, and Fletcher's _Faithful Shepherdess_, while
a more general indebtedness may in particular be observed to Chaucer,
_Piers Plowman_, and the _Faery Queen_.

The plot involves two more or less connected threads of action, the one
dealing with the adventures of the swains and shepherdesses, the
other concerned with the progress of Thetis and her court.

This latter recalls the poetic geography of Drayton's _Polyolbion_.
The principal episodes in the former are the loves of Celandine
and Marina, and the allegorical story of Fida and Aletheia, each
of which leads to numerous ramifications.

Indeed, so far as the pastoral action is concerned, the whole is
one string of barely connected episodes.

Celandine loves the shepherdess Marina, who is readily brought to return
his affection.

To the love thus easily won he soon becomes indifferent, and Marina
in despair seeks to end her sorrows in a stream.

Saved by the god of the fountain, she is carried off to Mona, and there
imprisoned in a cave by the monster Limos (hunger). With her loss,
Celandine's love revives, and in his search for her he is led to
visit the faery realm, where he finds Spenser lying asleep.

The poem ends abruptly in the midst of his adventures. The story
of Fida centres round the slaughter of her pet hind by the monster
Riot. From the mangled remains of the animal rises the beautiful form
of Aletheia (truth). The new-transformed nymph is the daughter of
Chronos (time), born, Pallas-like, without a mother.

The narrative of her rejection by the world gives occasion for some biting
satire on the ill-living of the religious orders, the vanity of
the court, and the dishonesty of the crafts.

Meanwhile Riot, who from this point ceases to be an embodiment of
cruelty, and comes to typify fallen humanity--the _Humanum Genus_
of the moralities--passing successively by Remembrance, Remorse,
and Repentance, is purged of his foul shape, and appears as the
shepherd Amyntas, finally to be united in marriage with Aletheia.

With these adventures is interwoven the progress of Thetis, who comes to
view her dominions.

From the Euxine and the Hellespont her train sweeps on by Adriatic
and Atlantic shores, past lands which call up the names of a long
line of poets--Vergil, Ovid, Ariosto, Petrarch, Tasso, Du Bartas,
Marot, Ronsard--till ultimately she arrives off the coast of
Devon--the Devon of Browne and Drake.

Here the shepherds assemble to do her honour, from Colin Clout down to
Browne's immediate circle, Brooke, Davies, and Wither, and here the
poet entertains her with the tale of Walla and Tavy, which forms
a charming incidental piece.

The nymph Walla loved the river-god Tavy, and while gathering flowers
to weave a garland for him was surprised by a satyr, who pursued
her into a wood.

She sought refuge in a cave, where, being overtaken by her pursuer,
she prayed to Diana, and in the last resort to Ina, by whom she was
transformed into a spring, which, after drowning the venturesome satyr,
ran on to join its waters with those of her beloved Tavy. Thus Browne
wove the common names of his familiar home into a romance of pastoral
invention. The metamorphosis of Arethusa pursued by Alpheus, of Ambra
by Ombrone, of the nymphs by the satyrs of the _Salices_, or as
frescoed on the temple of Pales in the _Arcadia_, the loves of Mulla
and Mollana in Spenser, and the mythological impersonations of the
_Polyolbion_, find, as it were, a meeting-place in Browne's lay of
Walla.

The three parts of _Britannia's Pastorals_ did not appear together.

Book I was published during the winter of 1613-14, Book II in 1616,
each containing five songs; while the fragment of Book III, containing
two songs only, remained in manuscript till 1853, when it was
discovered in the Cathedral Library at Salisbury, and printed for
the Percy Society[136].

The narrative, as may have been inferred from what has already been
said, is sufficiently fantastic. In the introduction of allegorical
characters Browne was probably influenced by Spenser, and in a lesser
degree by the masque literature of his day and by the study of
Langland.

Since the work is unfinished, we may in charity suppose that had Browne
completed his design the whole would have presented a somewhat less
incongruous appearance; there is, however, a marked tendency towards
the accumulation of unexplained incidents, which may most plausibly
be referred to the influence of the Spanish romances, especially
of the _Diana_, which was already accessible in Yong's translation,
and one incident of which Browne did undoubtedly borrow.

In style and poetic merit Browne's work is most astonishingly unequal,
though the general level of _Britannia's Pastorals_ is distinctly
higher than that of the _Shepherd's Pipe_.

The author passes at times abruptly from careful and loving realism to
the most stilted conventionality, and from passages of impassioned
eloquence to others grotesquely banal.

In some of his peculiarities, as in the perpetuai use of elaborate
similes and in the indulgence in inflated paraphrases, he anticipates
some of the worst faults of style cultivated by writers of the
next century.

There are portions of the poem where the narrative is literally carried
on through a succession of highly wrought comparisons, each paragraph
beginning with an 'As' followed by a correlative 'So' half a page
further on.

No such series of pictures, however fairly wrought--and Browne's
too often end in bathos--can possibly convey the impression of
continuons action.

It is the same with periphrasis. Used with discretion it may be one
of the subtlest ornaments of style, and even when fulfilling no particular
purpose is capable of imparting a luxuriant and somewhat rococo richness
to the verse.

The effect, however, is frequently one of unrelieved frigidity, as
in the lines:
And now Hyperion from his glitt'ring throne Sev'n times his quick'ning
rays had bravely shown Unto the other world, since Walla last Had
on her Tavy's head the garland plac'd; And this day, as of right,
she wends abroad To ease the meadows of their willing load.

(II. iii. 855.)
At times it was Browne's moral preoccupation that curbed his muse,
as in his description of the golden age where, for the sensuous glow of
Tasso and for Carew's pagan paradise, he substitutes the insipid
convention of a philosophical age of innocence[137].

In his genuine mood as a loving observer of country life he is a very
different poet. His feeling is delicate in tone and his observation keen;
he was familiar with every tree that grew in the woods, every fish
that swam in the waters of his beloved Devon; he entered tenderly into
the homely life of the farm--
By this had chanticleer, the village clock, Bidden the goodwife for
her maids to knock, And the swart ploughman for his breakfast stay'd,
That he might till those lands were fallow laid; The hills and
vailles here and there resound With the re-echoes of the deep-mouth'd
hound; Each shepherd's daughter, with her cleanly peal,[138] Was
come afield to milk the morning's meal.

(I. iv. 483.)
When, however, naturalism of this kind is introduced into pastoral it
is already on the high road toward ceasing to be pastoral at all. Nor
are touches of higher poetic imagination wanting, as when Time is
described as
a lusty aged swain, That cuts the green tufts off th' enamell'd
plain, And with his scythe hath many a summer shorn The plough'd-lands
lab'ring with a crop of corn.

(I. iv. 307.)
The love of his country is, however, the altar at which Browne's poetic
genius takes fire:

Hail, thou my native soil! thou blessed plot, Whose equal all the world
affordeth not!
Show me who can so many crystal rills, Such sweet-cloth'd valleys or
aspiring hills,....

And if the earth can show the like again, Yet will she fail in her
sea-ruling men.
Time never can produce men to o'ertake The fames of Grenville, Davies,
Gilbert, Drake, Or worthy Hawkins, or of thousands more That by their
power made the Devonian shore Mock the proud Tagus, for whose
richest spoil The boasting Spaniard left the Indian soil Bankrupt
of store, knowing it would quit cost By winning this, though all
the rest were lost.

(II. iii. 601.)
It is after all in such a passage as this that we see the true William
Browne, with all his high-handedness and worthy enthusiasm, the poet
who not only loves his country with a lover's passion and cannot tolerate
that any should be compared to her in fairness of feature, in
stateliness of stature, or in virtue of mind; but who, first perhaps
among English poets, has that more local patriotism, narrower and more
intimate, for his own home, for its moors, its streams, its associations,
all the actual or imagined surroundings of his beloved Tavistock, and
carries in his heart for ever the cry of the wild west--
Devon, O Devon, in wind and rain!

VII

Approaching the romance, as we do, from the point of view rather of
the development of the pastoral ideal than of the history of prose
narrative or of the novel, we may spare ourselves any detailed
consideration of the famous work of John Lyly.

Although in the novel which has made 'Euphuism' a word and a bye-word
in the language he supplied the literary medium for the work of
subsequent pastoral writers such as Greene and Lodge, his own
compositions in this kind are confined entirely to the drama.

The translations in this department are for the most part negligible.

There is, however, one notable exception, namely, the rendering by
Bartholomew Yong or Young of Montemayor's _Diana_, together with
the continuations of Ferez and Gil Polo.

Completed as early as May, 1583, the work remained in manuscript until
1598, when it was published in the form of a handsome folio. Although,
as we have already had occasion to notice, the verse portions were
not for the most part of a nature to add lustre to an anthology
such as _England's Helicon_, the whole forms a not unworthy Tudor
translation.

We learn from Yong's preface that portions of the romance had already
been Englished by Edward Paston, a descendant of the famous Norfolk
letter-writers, who had family relations with Spain and possessed
an intimate knowledge of the language.

Of this work nothing further is known. Some two years, however, before
Yong's version issued from the press, the first book of Montemayor's
portion was again translated by Thomas Wilson, and of this a manuscript
yet survives[139].
Passing mention may also be made of Angel Day's translation of
_Daphnis and Chloe_ containing the original insertion of the
_Shepherd's Holiday_ with the praises of Elizabeth in verse, and
of Robert Tofte's _Honours Academy_ (1610), distantly following
Ollenix du Mont-Sacré's _Bergerie de Juliette_, but which, as also
John Pyper's version of d'Urfé's _Astrée_ (1620), have received
sufficient notice in being recorded in connexion with their
originals.

Earlier in date of publication and belonging to an elder tradition than
the _Arcadia_, though later in date of composition, and it may be
at times betraying a familiarity with Sidney's manuscript, the
romances of the Bohemian Robert Greene, and the buccaneer-physician
Thomas Lodge, are naturally the first to claim our attention.

With the exception of _Menaphon_, Greene's romances offer little that
is important in pastoral, apart from the more notable works which they
inspired. And even _Menaphon_, in so far as the general conception is
concerned, can hardly be said necessarily to involve the existence
of any antecedent pastoral tradition.

Greene's novel is, indeed, far from being purely pastoral; no more
than in Sidney's, to use Professor Herford's happy phrase, are we
allowed to forget that Arcadia bordered on Sparta. In this it
undoubtedly resembles the Spanish romances, but the resemblance
does not appear to go much further; it is on the whole warlike
without being chivalric, the tone Greek, or what Greene considered
such, rather than medieval--indeed it might be argued that in its
martial incidents it rather recalls _Daphnis and Chloe_ than the
_Diana_.

Then, as she was going through Mantua at four in the morning,
Philip made her look out of the window because it was Virgil's
birthplace, and a smut flew in her eye, and Harriet with a smut in her
eye was notorious. At Bologna they stopped twenty-four hours to rest. It
was a FESTA, and children blew bladder whistles night and day. "What a
religion!" said Harriet. The hotel smelt, two puppies were asleep on
her bed, and her bedroom window looked into a belfry, which saluted her
slumbering form every quarter of an hour. Philip left his walking-stick,
his socks, and the Baedeker at Bologna; she only left her sponge-bag.
Next day they crossed the Apennines with a train-sick child and a
hot lady, who told them that never, never before had she sweated so
profusely. "Foreigners are a filthy nation," said Harriet. "I don't care
if there are tunnels; open the windows." He obeyed, and she got another
smut in her eye. Nor did Florence improve matters. Eating, walking, even
a cross word would bathe them both in boiling water. Philip, who was
slighter of build, and less conscientious, suffered less. But Harriet
had never been to Florence, and between the hours of eight and eleven
she crawled like a wounded creature through the streets, and swooned
before various masterpieces of art. It was an irritable couple who took
tickets to Monteriano.

"Singles or returns?" said he.

"A single for me," said Harriet peevishly; "I shall never get back
alive."

"Sweet creature!" said her brother, suddenly breaking down. "How helpful
you will be when we come to Signor Carella!"

"Do you suppose," said Harriet, standing still among a whirl of
porters--"do you suppose I am going to enter that man's house?"

"Then what have you come for, pray? For ornament?"

"To see that you do your duty."

"Oh, thanks!"

"So mother told me. For goodness sake get the tickets; here comes that
hot woman again! She has the impudence to bow."

"Mother told you, did she?" said Philip wrathfully, as he went to
struggle for tickets at a slit so narrow that they were handed to him
edgeways. Italy was beastly, and Florence station is the centre of
beastly Italy. But he had a strange feeling that he was to blame for it
all; that a little influx into him of virtue would make the whole land
not beastly but amusing. For there was enchantment, he was sure of that;
solid enchantment, which lay behind the porters and the screaming and
the dust. He could see it in the terrific blue sky beneath which they
travelled, in the whitened plain which gripped life tighter than a
frost, in the exhausted reaches of the Arno, in the ruins of brown
castles which stood quivering upon the hills. He could see it, though
his head ached and his skin was twitching, though he was here as a
puppet, and though his sister knew how he was here. There was nothing
pleasant in that journey to Monteriano station. But nothing--not even
the discomfort--was commonplace.

"But do people live inside?" asked Harriet. They had exchanged
railway-carriage for the legno, and the legno had emerged from the
withered trees, and had revealed to them their destination. Philip, to
be annoying, answered "No."

"What do they do there?" continued Harriet, with a frown.

"There is a caffe. A prison. A theatre. A church. Walls. A view."

"Not for me, thank you," said Harriet, after a weighty pause.

"Nobody asked you, Miss, you see. Now Lilia was asked by such a nice
young gentleman, with curls all over his forehead, and teeth just as
white as father makes them." Then his manner changed. "But, Harriet, do
you see nothing wonderful or attractive in that place--nothing at all?"

"Nothing at all. It's frightful."

"I know it is. But it's old--awfully old."

"Beauty is the only test," said Harriet. "At least so you told me when
I sketched old buildings--for the sake, I suppose, of making yourself
unpleasant."

"Oh, I'm perfectly right. But at the same time--I don't know--so
many things have happened here--people have lived so hard and so
splendidly--I can't explain."

The treaty lately concluded with Korea awaits the action of the
Senate.

During the late disturbance in Egypt the timely presence of American
vessels served as a protection to the persons and property of many
of our own citizens and of citizens of other countries, whose
governments have expressed their thanks for this assistance.

The recent legislation restricting immigration of laborers from China
has given rise to the question whether Chinese proceeding to or from
another country may lawfully pass through our own.

Construing the act of May 6, 1882, in connection with the treaty of
November 7, 1880, the restriction would seem to be limited to
Chinese immigrants coming to the United States as laborers, and
would not forbid a mere transit across our territory.

I ask the attention of Congress to the subject, for such action,
if any, as may be deemed advisable.

This Government has recently had occasion to manifest its interest in the
Republic of Liberia by seeking to aid the amicable settlement of the
boundary dispute now pending between that Republic and the British
possession of Sierra Leone.

The reciprocity treaty with Hawaii will become terminable after
September 9, 1883, on twelve months' notice by either party.

While certain provisions of that compact may have proved onerous,
its existence has fostered commercial relations which it is important
to preserve.

I suggest, therefore, that early consideration be given to such
modifications of the treaty as seem to be demanded by the interests
of our people.

In view of our increasing trade with both Hayti and Santo Domingo,
I advise that provision be made for diplomatic intercourse with
the latter by enlarging the scope of the mission at Port an Prince.

I regret that certain claims of American citizens against the Government
of Hayti have thus far been urged unavailingly.

A recent agreement with Mexico provides for the crossing of the
frontier by the armed forces of either country in pursuit of hostile
Indians.

In my message of last year I called attention to the prevalent
lawlessness upon the borders and to the necessity of legislation
for its suppression.

I again invite the attention of Congress to the subject.

You
haven't thought about it, even. You don't care. Philip! I shall not
speak to you. You are intolerable."

She kept her promise, and never opened her lips all the rest of the way.
But her eyes glowed with anger and resolution. For she was a straight,
brave woman, as well as a peevish one.

Philip acknowledged her reproof to be true. He did not care about the
baby one straw. Nevertheless, he meant to do his duty, and he was fairly
confident of success. If Gino would have sold his wife for a thousand
lire, for how much less would he not sell his child? It was just a
commercial transaction. Why should it interfere with other things? His
eyes were fixed on the towers again, just as they had been fixed when he
drove with Miss Abbott. But this time his thoughts were pleasanter, for
he had no such grave business on his mind. It was in the spirit of the
cultivated tourist that he approached his destination.

One of the towers, rough as any other, was topped by a cross--the tower
of the Collegiate Church of Santa Deodata. She was a holy maiden of the
Dark Ages, the city's patron saint, and sweetness and barbarity mingle
strangely in her story. So holy was she that all her life she lay upon
her back in the house of her mother, refusing to eat, refusing to play,
refusing to work. The devil, envious of such sanctity, tempted her in
various ways. He dangled grapes above her, he showed her fascinating
toys, he pushed soft pillows beneath her aching head. When all proved
vain he tripped up the mother and flung her downstairs before her very
eyes. But so holy was the saint that she never picked her mother up, but
lay upon her back through all, and thus assured her throne in Paradise.
She was only fifteen when she died, which shows how much is within the
reach of any school-girl. Those who think her life was unpractical need
only think of the victories upon Poggibonsi, San Gemignano, Volterra,
Siena itself--all gained through the invocation of her name; they need
only look at the church which rose over her grave. The grand schemes for
a marble facade were never carried out, and it is brown unfinished stone
until this day. But for the inside Giotto was summoned to decorate the
walls of the nave. Giotto came--that is to say, he did not come, German
research having decisively proved--but at all events the nave is covered
with frescoes, and so are two chapels in the left transept, and the
arch into the choir, and there are scraps in the choir itself. There the
decoration stopped, till in the full spring of the Renaissance a
great painter came to pay a few weeks' visit to his friend the Lord of
Monteriano. In the intervals between the banquets and the discussions on
Latin etymology and the dancing, he would stroll over to the church, and
there in the fifth chapel to the right he has painted two frescoes of
the death and burial of Santa Deodata. That is why Baedeker gives the
place a star.

Santa Deodata was better company than Harriet, and she kept Philip in a
pleasant dream until the legno drew up at the hotel. Every one there was
asleep, for it was still the hour when only idiots were moving. There
were not even any beggars about. The cabman put their bags down in the
passage--they had left heavy luggage at the station--and strolled about
till he came on the landlady's room and woke her, and sent her to them.

Then Harriet pronounced the monosyllable "Go!"

"Go where?" asked Philip, bowing to the landlady, who was swimming down
the stairs.

"To the Italian. Go."

"Buona sera, signora padrona. Si ritorna volontieri a Monteriano!"
(Don't be a goose. I'm not going now. You're in the way, too.) "Vorrei
due camere--"

"Go. This instant. Now. I'll stand it no longer. Go!"

"I'm damned if I'll go. I want my tea."

"Swear if you like!" she cried. "Blaspheme! Abuse me! But understand,
I'm in earnest."

"Harriet, don't act. Or act better."

"We've come here to get the baby back, and for nothing else. I'll not
have this levity and slackness, and talk about pictures and churches.
Think of mother; did she send you out for THEM?"

"Think of mother and don't straddle across the stairs. Let the cabman
and the landlady come down, and let me go up and choose rooms."

"I shan't."

"Harriet, are you mad?"

"If you like. But you will not come up till you have seen the Italian."

"La signorina si sente male," said Philip, "C' e il sole."

"Poveretta!" cried the landlady and the cabman.

"Leave me alone!" said Harriet, snarling round at them. "I don't care
for the lot of you. I'm English, and neither you'll come down nor he up
till he goes for the baby."

"La prego-piano-piano-c e un' altra signorina che dorme--"

"We shall probably be arrested for brawling, Harriet. Have you the very
slightest sense of the ludicrous?"

Harriet had not; that was why she could be so powerful. She had
concocted this scene in the carriage, and nothing should baulk her
of it. To the abuse in front and the coaxing behind she was equally
indifferent. How long she would have stood like a glorified Horatius,
keeping the staircase at both ends, was never to be known. For the young
lady, whose sleep they were disturbing, awoke and opened her bedroom
door, and came out on to the landing. She was Miss Abbott.

Philip's first coherent feeling was one of indignation. To be run by
his mother and hectored by his sister was as much as he could stand. The
intervention of a third female drove him suddenly beyond politeness. He
was about to say exactly what he thought about the thing from beginning
to end. But before he could do so Harriet also had seen Miss Abbott. She
uttered a shrill cry of joy.

"You, Caroline, here of all people!" And in spite of the heat she darted
up the stairs and imprinted an affectionate kiss upon her friend.

Philip had an inspiration. "You will have a lot to tell Miss Abbott,
Harriet, and she may have as much to tell you. So I'll pay my call on
Signor Carella, as you suggested, and see how things stand."

Miss Abbott uttered some noise of greeting or alarm. Its color was yellow,
and it had many violet spots upon its skin, like an ounce. It was larger
than a dromedary, had its feet cleft like those of an ox, and ran
as swiftly as the wind, and skipped over the rocks as lightly, and
held itself erect on any part of them, as do the mountain-goats.

Its food was dates and figs and peas, and nothing else. Its flank and
haunches and breast were very beautiful. On this animal, of which you
have thus heard, mounted this beautiful Queen, and there rode behind her
two thousand women of her train, dressed in the very richest
clothes.

There brought up the rear twenty damsels clothed in uniform, the trains
of whose dresses extended so far, that, falling from each beast,
they dragged four fathoms on the ground.

"With this equipment and ornament the Queen proceeded to the Emperor's
camp, where she saw all the Kings, who had come out upon the plain.
They had seated themselves on very rich chairs, upon cloth of gold,
and they themselves were armed, because they had not much confidence
in the promises of the Pagans. So they sallied out to receive her at
the door of the tent, where she was dismounted into the arms of Don
Quadragante;[4] and the two Kings, Lisuarte and Perion, took her
by the hands, and placed her between them in a chair. When she was seated,
looking from one side to the other, she saw Esplandian next to King
Lisuarte, who held him by the hand; and from the superiority of
his beauty to that of all the others, she knew at once who he was,
and said to herself, 'Oh, my Gods!

what is this? I declare to you, I have never seen any one who can be
compared to him, nor shall I ever see any one.' And he turning his beautiful
eyes upon her beautiful face, she perceived that the rays which
leaped out from his resplendent beauty, entering in at her eyes,
penetrated to her heart in such a way, that, if she were not conquered
yet by the great force of arms, or by the great attacks of her
enemies, she was softened and broken by that sight and by her amorous
passion, as if she had passed between mallets of iron.

And as she saw this, she reflected, that, if she stayed longer, the
great fame which she had acquired as a manly cavalier, by so many
dangers and labors, would be greatly hazarded.

She saw that by any delay she should expose herself to the risk of dishonor,
by being turned to that native softness which women of nature consider
to be an ornament; and therefore resisting, with great pain, the
feelings which she had subjected to her will, she rose from her
seat and said,--
"'Knight of the Great Serpent, for two excellences which distinguish
you above all mortals I have made inquiry.

    The first,
    that of
    your great beauty, which, if one has not seen, no relation is
enough to tell the greatness of; the other, the valor and force of
your brave heart.

The one of these I have seen, which is such as I have never seen nor could
hope to see, though many years of searching should be granted me.

The other shall be made manifest on the field, against this valiant
Radiaro, Sultan of Liquia.

Mine shall be shown against this mighty king your father; and if fortune
grant that we come alive from this battle, as we hope to come from
other battles, then I will talk with you, before I return to my home,
of some things of my own affairs.'
"Then, turning towards the Kings, she said to them,--
"'Kings, rest in good health.

I go hence to that place where you shall see me with very different
dress from this which I now wear, hoping that in that field the King
Amadis, who trusts in fickle fortune that he may never be conquered
by any knight, however valiant, nor by any beast, however terrible,
may there be conquered by a woman.'
"Then taking the two older Kings by the hand, she permitted them
to help her mount upon her strange steed."

At this point the novel assumes a tone of high virtue (_virtus_,
mannishness, prejudice of the more brutal sex) on the subject of
woman's rights, in especial of woman's right to fight in the field
with gold armor, lance in rest, and casque closed.

We will show the reader, as she follows us, how careful she must
be, if, in any island of the sea which has been slipped by unknown
by the last five centuries, she ever happen to meet a cavalier of
the true school of chivalry.

Esplandian himself would not in any way salute the Queen Calafia,
as she left him.

Nor was this a copperhead prejudice of color; for that prejudice
was not yet known.

"He made no reply to her, both because he looked at her as something
strange, however beautiful she appeared to him, and because he saw
her come thus in arms, so different from the style in which a woman
should have come.

For he considered it as very dishonorable that she should attempt
anything so different from what the word of God commanded her, that
the woman should be in subjection to the man, but rather should prefer
to be the ruler of all men, not by her courtesy, but by force of
arms, and, above all, because he hated to place himself in relations
with her, because she was one of the infidels, whom he mortally
despised and had taken a vow to destroy."

The romance then goes into an account of the preparations for the
contest on both sides.

After all the preliminaries were arranged, "they separated for a little
and rode together furiously in full career.

  The Sultan struck Esplandian
  in the shield with so hard a blow that a part of the lance passed
through it for as much as an ell, so that all who saw it thought
that it had passed through the body.

But it was not so, but the lance passed under the arm next the body,
and went out on the other side without touching him.

But Esplandian, who knew that his much-loved lady was looking on,
[Leonorina, the daughter of the Emperor of Constantinople,] so
struck the Sultan's shield, that the iron passed through it and
struck him on some of the strongest plates of his armor, upon which
the spear turned.

But, with the force of the encounter, it shook him so roughly from the
saddle that it rolled him upon the ground, and so shook the helmet as to
tear it off from his head, and thus Esplandian passed by him very
handsomely, without receiving any stroke himself.

The Queen rushed upon Amadis, and he upon her, and, before they met, each
pointed lance at the other, and they received the blows upon their
shields in such guise, that her spear flew in pieces, while that of
Amadis slipped off and was thrown on one side. Then they both met,
shield to shield, with such force that the Queen was thrown upon
the ground, and the horse of Amadis was so wounded that he fell with
his head cut in two, and held Amadis with one leg under him. When Esplandian
saw this, he leaped from his horse and saved him from that peril.
Meanwhile, the Queen, being put to her defence, put hand to her
sword, and joined herself to the Sultan, who had raised himself
with great difficulty, because his fall was very heavy, and stood
there with his sword and helmet in his hand.

They came on to fight very bravely, but Esplandian, standing, as I told
you, in presence of the Infanta, whom he prized so much, gave the
Sultan such hard pressure with such heavy blows, that, although he
was one of the bravest knights of the Pagans, and by his own prowess
had won many dangerous battles, and was very dexterous in that art,
yet all this served him for nothing; he could neither give nor parry
blows, and constantly lost ground.

The Queen, who had joined fight with Amadis, began giving him many
fierce blows, some of which he received upon his shield, while he let
others be lost; yet he would not put his hand upon his sword, but, instead
of that, took a fragment of the lance which she had driven through
his shield, and struck her on the top of the helmet with it, so
that in a little while he had knocked the crest away."

We warned those of our fair readers who may have occasion to defend
their rights at the point of the lance, that the days of chivalry
or the cavaliers of chivalry will be very unhandsome in applying
to them the rules of the tourney.

Amadis, it will be observed here, does not condescend to use his
sword against a woman.

And this is not from tenderness, but from contempt.

For when the Queen saw that he only took the broken truncheon of
his lance to her, she fairly asked him why.

"'How is this, Amadis?' she said; 'do you consider my force so slight
that you think to conquer me with sticks?'
"And he said to her,--
"'Queen, I have always been in the habit of serving women and aiding
them; and as you are a woman, if I should use any weapon against you,
I should deserve to lose all the honors I have ever gained.'
"'What, then!' said the Queen, 'do you rank me among them? You shall
see!'
"And taking her sword in both her hands, she struck him with great
rage.
Amadis raised his shield and received the blow upon it, which was
so brave and strong that the shield was cut in two.

Then, seeing her joined to him so closely, he passed the stick into his
left hand, seized her by the rim of her shield, and pulled her so
forcibly, that, breaking the great thongs by which she held upon
it, he took it from her, lifting it up in one hand, and forced her
to kneel with one knee on the ground; and when she lightly sprang
up, Amadis threw away his own shield, and, seizing the other, took
the stick and sprang to her, saying,--
"'Queen, yield yourself my prisoner, now that your Sultan is
conquered.'

"She turned her head, and saw that Esplandian had the Sultan already
surrendered as his prize.

But she said, 'Let me try fortune yet one more turn'; and then,
raising her sword with both her hands, she struck upon the crest
of his helmet, thinking she could cut it and his head in two.

But Amadis warded the blow very lightly and turned it off, and
struck her so heavy a stroke with that fragment of the lance upon
the crest of her helmet, that he stunned her and made her sword
fall from her hands.

Amadis seized the sword, and, when she was thus disarmed, caught
at her helmet so strongly that he dragged it from her head, and
said,-- 
"'Now are you my prisoner?'

"'Yes,' replied she; 'for there is nothing left for me to do.'

"At this moment Esplandian came to them with the Sultan, who had
surrendered himself, and, in sight of all the army, they repaired to
the royal encampment, where they were received with great pleasure,
not only on account of the great victory in battle, which, after
the great deeds in arms which they had wrought before, as this
history has shown, they did not regard as very remarkable, but
because they took this success as a good omen for the future.

The King Amadis asked the Count Gandalin to lead their prisoners to
the Infanta Leonorina, in his behalf and that of his son Esplandian, and
to say to her that he begged her to do honor to the Sultan, because he
was so great a prince and so strong a knight, and, withal, very noble;
and to do honor to the Queen, _because she was a woman_; and to
say that he trusted in God that thus they should send to her all
those whom they took captive alive in the battles which awaited
them.

"The Count took them in charge, and, as the city was very near, they
soon arrived at the palace. Then, coming into the presence of the Infanta,
he delivered to her the prisoners, and gave the message with which
he was intrusted.

The Infanta replied to him,--
"'Tell King Amadis that I thank him greatly for this present which he
sends me,--that I am sure that the good fortune and great courage which
appear in this adventure will appear in those which await us,--and
that we are very desirous to see him here, that, when we discharge
our obligation to his son, we may have him as a judge between us.'
"The Count kissed her hand, and returned to the royal camp. Then the
Infanta sent to the Empress, her mother, for a rich robe and head-dress,
and, having disarmed the Queen, made her array herself in them; and
she did the same for the Sultan, having sent for other robes from the
Emperor, her father, and having dressed their wounds with certain
preparations made by Master Helisabat. Then the Queen, though of so great
fortune, was much astonished to see the great beauty of Leonorina, and
said,--
"'I tell you, Infanta, that in the same measure in which I was
astonished to see the beauty of your cavalier, Esplandian, am I now
overwhelmed, beholding yours.

If your deeds correspond to your appearance, I hold it no dishonor to
be your prisoner.'
"'Queen,' said the Infanta, 'I hope the God in whom I trust will so
direct events that I shall be able to fulfil every obligation which
conquerors acknowledge toward those who submit to them.'"

With this chivalrous little conversation the Queen of California disappears
from the romance, and consequently from all written history, till
the very _dénouement_ of the whole story, where, when the rest is
"wound up," she is wound up also, to be set a-going again in her
own land of California.

And if the chroniclers of California find no records of her in any
of the griffin caves of the Black Cañon, it is not our fault, but theirs.
Or, possibly, did she and her party suffer shipwreck on the return
passage from Constantinople to the Golden Gate? Their probable
route must have been through the Ægean, over Lebanon and Anti-Lebanon
to the Euphrates, ("I will sail a fleet over the Alps," said
Cromwell,) down Chesney's route to the Persian Gulf, and so home.

After the Sultan and the Queen are taken prisoners, there are reams
of terrific fighting, in which King Lisuarte and King Perion and a
great many other people are killed; but finally the "Pagans" are
all routed, and the Emperor of Greece retires into a monastery,
having united Esplandian with his daughter Leonorina, and abdicated
the throne in their favor.

Among the first acts of their new administration is the disposal of
Calafia.

"As soon as the Queen Calafia saw these nuptials, having no more hope of
him whom she so much loved, [Esplandian,] for a moment her courage
left her; and coming before the new Emperor and these great lords,
she thus spoke to them:--
"'I am a queen of a great kingdom, in which there is the greatest
abundance of all that is most valued in the world, such as gold and
precious stones.

My lineage is very old,--for it comes from royal blood so far back
that there is no memory of the beginnings of it,--and my honor is
as perfect as it was at my birth.

My fortune has brought me into these countries, whence I hoped to
bring away many captives, but where I am myself a captive.

I do not say of this captivity in which you see me, that, after all
the great experiences of my life, favorable and adverse, I had
believed that I was strong enough to parry the thrusts of fortune;
but I have found that my heart was tried and afflicted in my
imprisonment, because the great beauty of this new Emperor overwhelmed
me in the moment that my eyes looked upon him.

I trusted in my greatness, and that immense wealth which excites
and unites so many, that, if I would turn to your religion, I might
gain him for a husband; but when I came into the presence of this
lovely Empress, I regarded it as certain that they belonged to each
other by their equal rank; and that argument, which showed the
vanity of my thoughts, brought me to the determination in which I
now stand.

And since Eternal Fortune has taken the direction of my passion,
I, throwing all my own strength into oblivion, as the wise do in
those affairs which have no remedy, seek, if it please you, to take
for my husband some other man, who may be the son of a king, to be
of such power as a good knight ought to have; and I will become a
Christian.

For, as I have seen the ordered order of your religion, and the
great disorder of all others, I have seen that it is clear that the
law which you follow must be the truth, while that which we follow
is lying and falsehood.'

"When the Emperor had heard all this, embracing her with a smile,
he said, 'Queen Calafia, my good friend, till now you have had from
me neither word nor argument; for my condition is such that I cannot
permit my eyes to look, without terrible hatred, upon any but those
who are in the holy law of truth, nor wish well to such as are out of
it.

But now that the Omnipotent Lord has had such mercy on you as to give
you such knowledge that you become His servant, you excite in me at
once the same love as if the King, my father, had begotten us both. And
as for this you ask, I will give you, by my troth, a knight who
is even more complete in valor and in lineage than you have demanded.'

"Then, taking by the hand Talanque, his cousin, the son of the King of
Sobradisa,--very large he was of person, and very handsome withal,--he
said,--
"'Queen, here you see one of my cousins, son of the King whom you
here see,--the brother of the King my father,--take him to yourself,
that I may secure to you the good fortune which you will bring to
him.'

"The Queen looked at him, and finding his appearance good, said,--
"'I am content with his presence, and well satisfied with his lineage and
person, since you assure me of them. Be pleased to summon for me Liota,
my sister, who is with my fleet in the harbor, that I may send orders
to her that there shall be no movement among my people.'
Anger, cynicism, stubborn
morality--all had ended in a feeling of good-will towards each other
and towards the city which had received them. And now Harriet
was here--acrid, indissoluble, large; the same in Italy as in
England--changing her disposition never, and her atmosphere under
protest.

Yet even Harriet was human, and the better for a little tea. She did not
scold Philip for finding Gino out, as she might reasonably have done.
She showered civilities on Miss Abbott, exclaiming again and again
that Caroline's visit was one of the most fortunate coincidences in the
world. Caroline did not contradict her.

"You see him tomorrow at ten, Philip. Well, don't forget the blank
cheque. Say an hour for the business. No, Italians are so slow; say two.
Twelve o'clock. Lunch. Well--then it's no good going till the evening
train. I can manage the baby as far as Florence--"

"My dear sister, you can't run on like that. You don't buy a pair of
gloves in two hours, much less a baby."

"Three hours, then, or four; or make him learn English ways. At Florence
we get a nurse--"

"But, Harriet," said Miss Abbott, "what if at first he was to refuse?"

"I don't know the meaning of the word," said Harriet impressively. "I've
told the landlady that Philip and I only want our rooms one night, and
we shall keep to it."

"I dare say it will be all right. But, as I told you, I thought the man
I met on the Rocca a strange, difficult man."

"He's insolent to ladies, we know. But my brother can be trusted to
bring him to his senses. That woman, Philip, whom you saw will carry the
baby to the hotel. Of course you must tip her for it. And try, if you
can, to get poor Lilia's silver bangles. They were nice quiet things,
and will do for Irma. And there is an inlaid box I lent her--lent, not
gave--to keep her handkerchiefs in. It's of no real value; but this is
our only chance. Don't ask for it; but if you see it lying about, just
say--"

"No, Harriet; I'll try for the baby, but for nothing else. I promise
to do that tomorrow, and to do it in the way you wish. But tonight, as
we're all tired, we want a change of topic. We want relaxation. We want
to go to the theatre."

"Theatres here? And at such a moment?"

"We should hardly enjoy it, with the great interview impending," said
Miss Abbott, with an anxious glance at Philip.

He did not betray her, but said, "Don't you think it's better than
sitting in all the evening and getting nervous?"

His sister shook her head. "Mother wouldn't like it. It would be most
unsuitable--almost irreverent. Besides all that, foreign theatres
are notorious. Don't you remember those letters in the 'Church Family
Newspaper'?"

"But this is an opera--'Lucia di Lammermoor'--Sir Walter
Scott--classical, you know."

Harriet's face grew resigned. "Certainly one has so few opportunities
of hearing music. It is sure to be very bad. But it might be better than
sitting idle all the evening. We have no book, and I lost my crochet at
Florence."

"Good. Miss Abbott, you are coming too?"

"It is very kind of you, Mr. Herriton. In some ways I should enjoy
it; but--excuse the suggestion--I don't think we ought to go to cheap
seats."

"Good gracious me!" cried Harriet, "I should never have thought of that.
As likely as not, we should have tried to save money and sat among the
most awful people. One keeps on forgetting this is Italy."

"Unfortunately I have no evening dress; and if the seats--"

"Oh, that'll be all right," said Philip, smiling at his timorous,
scrupulous women-kind. "We'll go as we are, and buy the best we can get.
Monteriano is not formal."

So this strenuous day of resolutions, plans, alarms, battles, victories,
defeats, truces, ended at the opera. Miss Abbott and Harriet were both
a little shame-faced. They thought of their friends at Sawston, who were
supposing them to be now tilting against the powers of evil. What would
Mrs. Herriton, or Irma, or the curates at the Back Kitchen say if they
could see the rescue party at a place of amusement on the very first day
of its mission? Philip, too, marvelled at his wish to go. He began
to see that he was enjoying his time in Monteriano, in spite of the
tiresomeness of his companions and the occasional contrariness of
himself.

He had been to this theatre many years before, on the occasion of a
performance of "La Zia di Carlo." Since then it had been thoroughly done
up, in the tints of the beet-root and the tomato, and was in many other
ways a credit to the little town. The orchestra had been enlarged,
some of the boxes had terra-cotta draperies, and over each box was now
suspended an enormous tablet, neatly framed, bearing upon it the number
of that box. There was also a drop-scene, representing a pink and purple
landscape, wherein sported many a lady lightly clad, and two more ladies
lay along the top of the proscenium to steady a large and pallid clock.
So rich and so appalling was the effect, that Philip could scarcely
suppress a cry. There is something majestic in the bad taste of Italy;
it is not the bad taste of a country which knows no better; it has not
the nervous vulgarity of England, or the blinded vulgarity of Germany.
It observes beauty, and chooses to pass it by. But it attains to
beauty's confidence. This tiny theatre of Monteriano spraddled and
swaggered with the best of them, and these ladies with their clock would
have nodded to the young men on the ceiling of the Sistine.

Philip had tried for a box, but all the best were taken: it was rather
a grand performance, and he had to be content with stalls. Harriet was
fretful and insular. Miss Abbott was pleasant, and insisted on praising
everything: her only regret was that she had no pretty clothes with her.

"We do all right," said Philip, amused at her unwonted vanity.

"Yes, I know; but pretty things pack as easily as ugly ones. We had no
need to come to Italy like guys."

This time he did not reply, "But we're here to rescue a baby." For
he saw a charming picture, as charming a picture as he had seen for
years--the hot red theatre; outside the theatre, towers and dark gates
and mediaeval walls; beyond the walls olive-trees in the starlight and
white winding roads and fireflies and untroubled dust; and here in the
middle of it all, Miss Abbott, wishing she had not come looking like a
guy. She had made the right remark. Most undoubtedly she had made the
right remark. This stiff suburban woman was unbending before the shrine.

"Don't you like it at all?" he asked her.

"Most awfully." And by this bald interchange they convinced each other
that Romance was here.

Harriet, meanwhile, had been coughing ominously at the drop-scene, which
presently rose on the grounds of Ravenswood, and the chorus of Scotch
retainers burst into cry. The audience accompanied with tappings and
drummings, swaying in the melody like corn in the wind. Harriet, though
she did not care for music, knew how to listen to it. She uttered an
acid "Shish!"

"Shut it," whispered her brother.

"We must make a stand from the beginning. They're talking."

"It is tiresome," murmured Miss Abbott; "but perhaps it isn't for us to
interfere."

Harriet shook her head and shished again. The people were quiet, not
because it is wrong to talk during a chorus, but because it is natural
to be civil to a visitor. For a little time she kept the whole house in
order, and could smile at her brother complacently.

Her success annoyed him. He had grasped the principle of opera in
Italy--it aims not at illusion but at entertainment--and he did not want
this great evening-party to turn into a prayer-meeting. But soon the
boxes began to fill, and Harriet's power was over. Families greeted each
other across the auditorium. People in the pit hailed their brothers and
sons in the chorus, and told them how well they were singing. When Lucia
appeared by the fountain there was loud applause, and cries of "Welcome
to Monteriano!"

"Ridiculous babies!" said Harriet, settling down in her stall.

"Why, it is the famous hot lady of the Apennines," cried Philip; "the
one who had never, never before--"

"Ugh! Don't. She will be very vulgar. And I'm sure it's even worse here
than in the tunnel. I wish we'd never--"

Lucia began to sing, and there was a moment's silence. She was stout
and ugly; but her voice was still beautiful, and as she sang the theatre
murmured like a hive of happy bees. All through the coloratura she
was accompanied by sighs, and its top note was drowned in a shout of
universal joy.

So the opera proceeded. The singers drew inspiration from the audience,
and the two great sextettes were rendered not unworthily. Miss Abbott
fell into the spirit of the thing. She, too, chatted and laughed and
applauded and encored, and rejoiced in the existence of beauty. As for
Philip, he forgot himself as well as his mission. He was not even an
enthusiastic visitor. For he had been in this place always. It was his
home.

Harriet, like M. Bovary on a more famous occasion, was trying to follow
the plot. Occasionally she nudged her companions, and asked them what
had become of Walter Scott. She looked round grimly. The audience
sounded drunk, and even Caroline, who never took a drop, was swaying
oddly. Violent waves of excitement, all arising from very little, went
sweeping round the theatre. The climax was reached in the mad scene.
Lucia, clad in white, as befitted her malady, suddenly gathered up her
streaming hair and bowed her acknowledgment to the audience. Then from
the back of the stage--she feigned not to see it--there advanced a kind
of bamboo clothes-horse, stuck all over with bouquets. It was very ugly,
and most of the flowers in it were false. Lucia knew this, and so did
the audience; and they all knew that the clothes-horse was a piece of
stage property, brought in to make the performance go year after year.
None the less did it unloose the great deeps. With a scream of amazement
and joy she embraced the animal, pulled out one or two practicable
blossoms, pressed them to her lips, and flung them into her admirers.
They flung them back, with loud melodious cries, and a little boy in one
of the stageboxes snatched up his sister's carnations and offered them.
"Che carino!" exclaimed the singer. She darted at the little boy and
kissed him. Now the noise became tremendous. "Silence! silence!" shouted
many old gentlemen behind. "Let the divine creature continue!" But
the young men in the adjacent box were imploring Lucia to extend her
civility to them. She refused, with a humorous, expressive gesture. One
of them hurled a bouquet at her. She spurned it with her foot. Then,
encouraged by the roars of the audience, she picked it up and tossed it
to them. Harriet was always unfortunate. The bouquet struck her full in
the chest, and a little billet-doux fell out of it into her lap.

"Call this classical!" she cried, rising from her seat. "It's not even
respectable! Philip! take me out at once."

"Whose is it?" shouted her brother, holding up the bouquet in one hand
and the billet-doux in the other. "Whose is it?"

The house exploded, and one of the boxes was violently agitated, as if
some one was being hauled to the front. Harriet moved down the gangway,
and compelled Miss Abbott to follow her. Philip, still laughing
and calling "Whose is it?" brought up the rear. He was drunk with
excitement. The heat, the fatigue, and the enjoyment had mounted into
his head.

"To the left!" the people cried. "The innamorato is to the left."

He deserted his ladies and plunged towards the box. A young man was
flung stomach downwards across the balustrade. Philip handed him up the
bouquet and the note. Then his own hands were seized affectionately. It
all seemed quite natural.

"Why have you not written?" cried the young man. "Why do you take me by
surprise?"

"Oh, I've written," said Philip hilariously. "I left a note this
afternoon."

"Silence! silence!" cried the audience, who were beginning to have
enough. "Let the divine creature continue." Miss Abbott and Harriet had
disappeared.

"No! no!" cried the young man. "You don't escape me now." For Philip was
trying feebly to disengage his hands. Amiable youths bent out of the box
and invited him to enter it.

"Gino's friends are ours--"

"Friends?" cried Gino. "A relative! A brother! Fra Filippo, who has come
all the way from England and never written."

"I left a message."

The audience began to hiss.

"Come in to us."

"Thank you--ladies--there is not time--"

The next moment he was swinging by his arms. The moment after he shot
over the balustrade into the box. Then the conductor, seeing that the
incident was over, raised his baton. The house was hushed, and Lucia di
Lammermoor resumed her song of madness and death.

Philip had whispered introductions to the pleasant people who had pulled
him in--tradesmen's sons perhaps they were, or medical students, or
solicitors' clerks, or sons of other dentists. There is no knowing who
is who in Italy. The guest of the evening was a private soldier. He
shared the honour now with Philip. The two had to stand side by side in
the front, and exchange compliments, whilst Gino presided, courteous,
but delightfully familiar. Philip would have a spasm of horror at the
muddle he had made. But the spasm would pass, and again he would be
enchanted by the kind, cheerful voices, the laughter that was never
vapid, and the light caress of the arm across his back.

He could not get away till the play was nearly finished, and Edgardo was
singing amongst the tombs of ancestors. His new friends hoped to see him
at the Garibaldi tomorrow evening. He promised; then he remembered that
if they kept to Harriet's plan he would have left Monteriano. "At ten
o'clock, then," he said to Gino. "I want to speak to you alone. At ten."

"Certainly!" laughed the other.

Miss Abbott was sitting up for him when he got back. Harriet, it seemed,
had gone straight to bed.

"That was he, wasn't it?" she asked.

"Yes, rather."

"I suppose you didn't settle anything?"

"Why, no; how could I? The fact is--well, I got taken by surprise,
but after all, what does it matter? There's no earthly reason why we
shouldn't do the business pleasantly. He's a perfectly charming person,
and so are his friends. I'm his friend now--his long-lost brother.
What's the harm? I tell you, Miss Abbott, it's one thing for England and
another for Italy. There we plan and get on high moral horses. Here
we find what asses we are, for things go off quite easily, all by
themselves. My hat, what a night! Did you ever see a really purple sky
and really silver stars before? Well, as I was saying, it's absurd to
worry; he's not a porky father. He wants that baby as little as I do.
He's been ragging my dear mother--just as he ragged me eighteen months
ago, and I've forgiven him. Oh, but he has a sense of humour!"

Miss Abbott, too, had a wonderful evening, nor did she ever remember
such stars or such a sky. Her head, too, was full of music, and that
night when she opened the window her room was filled with warm, sweet
air. She was bathed in beauty within and without; she could not go to
bed for happiness. Had she ever been so happy before? Yes, once before,
and here, a night in March, the night Gino and Lilia had told her of
their love--the night whose evil she had come now to undo.

She gave a sudden cry of shame. "This time--the same place--the same
thing"--and she began to beat down her happiness, knowing it to be
sinful. She was here to fight against this place, to rescue a little
soul--who was innocent as yet. She was here to champion morality and
purity, and the holy life of an English home. In the spring she had
sinned through ignorance; she was not ignorant now. "Help me!" she
cried, and shut the window as if there was magic in the encircling air.
But the tunes would not go out of her head, and all night long she was
troubled by torrents of music, and by applause and laughter, and angry
young men who shouted the distich out of Baedeker:--

  Poggibonizzi fatti in la,
  Che Monteriano si fa citta!

Poggibonsi was revealed to her as they sang--a joyless, straggling
place, full of people who pretended. When she woke up she knew that it
had been Sawston.


Chapter 7

At about nine o'clock next morning Perfetta went out on to the loggia,
not to look at the view, but to throw some dirty water at it. "Scusi
tanto!" she wailed, for the water spattered a tall young lady who had
for some time been tapping at the lower door.

"Is Signor Carella in?" the young lady asked. It was no business of
Perfetta's to be shocked, and the style of the visitor seemed to demand
the reception-room. Accordingly she opened its shutters, dusted a round
patch on one of the horsehair chairs, and bade the lady do herself the
inconvenience of sitting down. Then she ran into Monteriano and shouted
up and down its streets until such time as her young master should hear
her.

The reception-room was sacred to the dead wife. Her shiny portrait hung
upon the wall--similar, doubtless, in all respects to the one which
would be pasted on her tombstone. A little piece of black drapery had
been tacked above the frame to lend a dignity to woe. But two of the
tacks had fallen out, and the effect was now rakish, as of a drunkard's
bonnet. A coon song lay open on the piano, and of the two tables one
supported Baedeker's "Central Italy," the other Harriet's inlaid box.
And over everything there lay a deposit of heavy white dust, which
was only blown off one moment to thicken on another. It is well to
be remembered with love. It is not so very dreadful to be forgotten
entirely. But if we shall resent anything on earth at all, we shall
resent the consecration of a deserted room.

Miss Abbott did not sit down, partly because the antimacassars might
harbour fleas, partly because she had suddenly felt faint, and was glad
to cling on to the funnel of the stove. She struggled with herself,
for she had need to be very calm; only if she was very calm might her
behaviour be justified. She had broken faith with Philip and Harriet:
she was going to try for the baby before they did. If she failed she
could scarcely look them in the face again.

"Harriet and her brother," she reasoned, "don't realize what is before
them. She would bluster and be rude; he would be pleasant and take it
as a joke. Both of them--even if they offered money--would fail. But I
begin to understand the man's nature; he does not love the child, but he
will be touchy about it--and that is quite as bad for us. He's charming,
but he's no fool; he conquered me last year; he conquered Mr. Herriton
yesterday, and if I am not careful he will conquer us all today, and the
baby will grow up in Monteriano. He is terribly strong; Lilia found that
out, but only I remember it now."

This attempt, and this justification of it, were the results of the long
and restless night. Miss Abbott had come to believe that she alone could
do battle with Gino, because she alone understood him; and she had put
this, as nicely as she could, in a note which she had left for Philip.
It distressed her to write such a note, partly because her education
inclined her to reverence the male, partly because she had got to like
Philip a good deal after their last strange interview. His pettiness
would be dispersed, and as for his "unconventionality," which was so
much gossiped about at Sawston, she began to see that it did not differ
greatly from certain familiar notions of her own. If only he would
forgive her for what she was doing now, there might perhaps be before
them a long and profitable friendship. But she must succeed. No one
would forgive her if she did not succeed. She prepared to do battle with
the powers of evil.

The voice of her adversary was heard at last, singing fearlessly
from his expanded lungs, like a professional. Herein he differed from
Englishmen, who always have a little feeling against music, and sing
only from the throat, apologetically. He padded upstairs, and looked
in at the open door of the reception-room without seeing her. Her heart
leapt and her throat was dry when he turned away and passed, still
singing, into the room opposite. It is alarming not to be seen.

He had left the door of this room open, and she could see into it,
right across the landing. It was in a shocking mess. Food, bedclothes,
patent-leather boots, dirty plates, and knives lay strewn over a large
table and on the floor. But it was the mess that comes of life, not of
desolation. It was preferable to the charnel-chamber in which she was
standing now, and the light in it was soft and large, as from some
gracious, noble opening.

He stopped singing, and cried "Where is Perfetta?"

His back was turned, and he was lighting a cigar. He was not speaking
to Miss Abbott. He could not even be expecting her. The vista of the
landing and the two open doors made him both remote and significant,
like an actor on the stage, intimate and unapproachable at the same
time. She could no more call out to him than if he was Hamlet.

"You know!" he continued, "but you will not tell me. Exactly like you."
He reclined on the table and blew a fat smoke-ring. "And why won't you
tell me the numbers? I have dreamt of a red hen--that is two hundred and
five, and a friend unexpected--he means eighty-two. But I try for the
Terno this week. So tell me another number."

Miss Abbott did not know of the Tombola. His speech terrified her. She
felt those subtle restrictions which come upon us in fatigue. Had she
slept well she would have greeted him as soon as she saw him. Now it was
impossible. He had got into another world.

She watched his smoke-ring. The air had carried it slowly away from him,
and brought it out intact upon the landing.

"Two hundred and five--eighty-two. In any case I shall put them on Bari,
not on Florence. I cannot tell you why; I have a feeling this week for
Bari." Again she tried to speak. But the ring mesmerized her. It had
become vast and elliptical, and floated in at the reception-room door.

"Ah! you don't care if you get the profits. You won't even say 'Thank
you, Gino.' Say it, or I'll drop hot, red-hot ashes on you. 'Thank you,
Gino--'"

The ring had extended its pale blue coils towards her. She lost
self-control. It enveloped her. As if it was a breath from the pit, she
screamed.

There he was, wanting to know what had frightened her, how she had got
here, why she had never spoken. He made her sit down. He brought her
wine, which she refused. She had not one word to say to him.

"What is it?" he repeated. "What has frightened you?"

He, too, was frightened, and perspiration came starting through the tan.
For it is a serious thing to have been watched. We all radiate something
curiously intimate when we believe ourselves to be alone.

"Business--" she said at last.

"Business with me?"

"Most important business." She was lying, white and limp, in the dusty
chair.

"Before business you must get well; this is the best wine."

She refused it feebly. He poured out a glass. She drank it. As she did
so she became self-conscious. However important the business, it was not
proper of her to have called on him, or to accept his hospitality.

"Perhaps you are engaged," she said. "And as I am not very well--"

"You are not well enough to go back. And I am not engaged."

She looked nervously at the other room.

"Ah, now I understand," he exclaimed. "Now I see what frightened you.
But why did you never speak?" And taking her into the room where he
lived, he pointed to--the baby.

She had thought so much about this baby, of its welfare, its soul, its
morals, its probable defects. But, like most unmarried people, she had
only thought of it as a word--just as the healthy man only thinks of the
word death, not of death itself. The real thing, lying asleep on a dirty
rug, disconcerted her. It did not stand for a principle any longer.
It was so much flesh and blood, so many inches and ounces of life--a
glorious, unquestionable fact, which a man and another woman had given
to the world. You could talk to it; in time it would answer you; in time
it would not answer you unless it chose, but would secrete, within the
compass of its body, thoughts and wonderful passions of its own. And
this was the machine on which she and Mrs. Herriton and Philip and
Harriet had for the last month been exercising their various ideals--had
determined that in time it should move this way or that way, should
accomplish this and not that. It was to be Low Church, it was to be
high-principled, it was to be tactful, gentlemanly, artistic--excellent
things all. Yet now that she saw this baby, lying asleep on a dirty rug,
she had a great disposition not to dictate one of them, and to exert
no more influence than there may be in a kiss or in the vaguest of the
heartfelt prayers.

But she had practised self-discipline, and her thoughts and actions were
not yet to correspond. To recover her self-esteem she tried to imagine
that she was in her district, and to behave accordingly.

"What a fine child, Signor Carella. And how nice of you to talk to it.
Though I see that the ungrateful little fellow is asleep! Seven months?
No, eight; of course eight. Still, he is a remarkably fine child for his
age."

Italian is a bad medium for condescension. The patronizing words came
out gracious and sincere, and he smiled with pleasure.

"You must not stand. Let us sit on the loggia, where it is cool. I am
afraid the room is very untidy," he added, with the air of a hostess who
apologizes for a stray thread on the drawing-room carpet. Miss Abbott
picked her way to the chair. He sat near her, astride the parapet, with
one foot in the loggia and the other dangling into the view. His face
was in profile, and its beautiful contours drove artfully against
the misty green of the opposing hills. "Posing!" said Miss Abbott to
herself. "A born artist's model."

"Mr. Herriton called yesterday," she began, "but you were out."

He started an elaborate and graceful explanation. He had gone for the
day to Poggibonsi. Why had the Herritons not written to him, so that he
could have received them properly? Poggibonsi would have done any day;
not but what his business there was fairly important. What did she
suppose that it was?

Naturally she was not greatly interested. She had not come from Sawston
to guess why he had been to Poggibonsi. She answered politely that she
had no idea, and returned to her mission.

"But guess!" he persisted, clapping the balustrade between his hands.

She suggested, with gentle sarcasm, that perhaps he had gone to
Poggibonsi to find something to do.

He intimated that it was not as important as all that. Something to
do--an almost hopeless quest! "E manca questo!" He rubbed his thumb and
forefinger together, to indicate that he had no money. Then he
sighed, and blew another smoke-ring. Miss Abbott took heart and turned
diplomatic.

"This house," she said, "is a large house."

"Exactly," was his gloomy reply. "And when my poor wife died--" He got
up, went in, and walked across the landing to the reception-room door,
which he closed reverently. Then he shut the door of the living-room
with his foot, returned briskly to his seat, and continued his sentence.
"When my poor wife died I thought of having my relatives to live here.
My father wished to give up his practice at Empoli; my mother and
sisters and two aunts were also willing. But it was impossible. They
have their ways of doing things, and when I was younger I was content
with them. But now I am a man. I have my own ways. Do you understand?"

"Yes, I do," said Miss Abbott, thinking of her own dear father, whose
tricks and habits, after twenty-five years spent in their company, were
beginning to get on her nerves. She remembered, though, that she was
not here to sympathize with Gino--at all events, not to show that
she sympathized. She also reminded herself that he was not worthy of
sympathy. "It is a large house," she repeated.

"Immense; and the taxes! But it will be better when--Ah! but you have
never guessed why I went to Poggibonsi--why it was that I was out when
he called."

"I cannot guess, Signor Carella. I am here on business."

"But try."

"I cannot; I hardly know you."

"But we are old friends," he said, "and your approval will be grateful
to me. You gave it me once before. Will you give it now?"

"I have not come as a friend this time," she answered stiffly. "I am not
likely, Signor Carella, to approve of anything you do."

"Oh, Signorina!" He laughed, as if he found her piquant and amusing.
"Surely you approve of marriage?"

"Where there is love," said Miss Abbott, looking at him hard. His face
had altered in the last year, but not for the worse, which was baffling.

"Where there is love," said he, politely echoing the English view. Then
he smiled on her, expecting congratulations.

"Do I understand that you are proposing to marry again?"

He nodded.

"I forbid you, then!"

He looked puzzled, but took it for some foreign banter, and laughed.

"I forbid you!" repeated Miss Abbott, and all the indignation of her sex
and her nationality went thrilling through the words.

"But why?" He jumped up, frowning. His voice was squeaky and petulant,
like that of a child who is suddenly forbidden a toy.

"You have ruined one woman; I forbid you to ruin another. It is not a
year since Lilia died. You pretended to me the other day that you loved
her. It is a lie. You wanted her money. Has this woman money too?"

"Why, yes!" he said irritably. "A little."

"And I suppose you will say that you love her."

"I shall not say it. It will be untrue. Now my poor wife--" He stopped,
seeing that the comparison would involve him in difficulties. And indeed
he had often found Lilia as agreeable as any one else.

Miss Abbott was furious at this final insult to her dead acquaintance.
She was glad that after all she could be so angry with the boy. She
glowed and throbbed; her tongue moved nimbly. At the finish, if the
real business of the day had been completed, she could have swept
majestically from the house. But the baby still remained, asleep on a
dirty rug.

Gino was thoughtful, and stood scratching his head. He respected Miss
Abbott. He wished that she would respect him. "So you do not advise me?"
he said dolefully. "But why should it be a failure?"

Miss Abbott tried to remember that he was really a child still--a child
with the strength and the passions of a disreputable man. "How can it
succeed," she said solemnly, "where there is no love?"

"But she does love me! I forgot to tell you that."

"Indeed."

"Passionately." He laid his hand upon his own heart.

"Then God help her!"

He stamped impatiently. "Whatever I say displeases you, Signorina. God
help you, for you are most unfair. You say that I ill-treated my dear
wife. It is not so. I have never ill-treated any one. You complain that
there is no love in this marriage. I prove that there is, and you become
still more angry. What do you want? Do you suppose she will not be
contented? Glad enough she is to get me, and she will do her duty well."

"Her duty!" cried Miss Abbott, with all the bitterness of which she was
capable.

"Why, of course. She knows why I am marrying her."

"To succeed where Lilia failed! To be your housekeeper, your slave,
you--" The words she would like to have said were too violent for her.

"To look after the baby, certainly," said he.

"The baby--?" She had forgotten it.

"It is an English marriage," he said proudly. "I do not care about the
money. I am having her for my son. Did you not understand that?"

"No," said Miss Abbott, utterly bewildered. Then, for a moment, she saw
light. "It is not necessary, Signor Carella. Since you are tired of the
baby--"

Ever after she remembered it to her credit that she saw her mistake at
once. "I don't mean that," she added quickly.

"I know," was his courteous response. "Ah, in a foreign language (and
how perfectly you speak Italian) one is certain to make slips."

She looked at his face. It was apparently innocent of satire.

"You meant that we could not always be together yet, he and I. You are
right. What is to be done? I cannot afford a nurse, and Perfetta is too
rough. When he was ill I dare not let her touch him. When he has to
be washed, which happens now and then, who does it? I. I feed him, or
settle what he shall have. I sleep with him and comfort him when he is
unhappy in the night. No one talks, no one may sing to him but I. Do not
be unfair this time; I like to do these things. But nevertheless (his
voice became pathetic) they take up a great deal of time, and are not
all suitable for a young man."

"Not at all suitable," said Miss Abbott, and closed her eyes wearily.
Each moment her difficulties were increasing. She wished that she was
not so tired, so open to contradictory impressions. She longed for
Harriet's burly obtuseness or for the soulless diplomacy of Mrs.
Herriton.

"A little more wine?" asked Gino kindly.

"Oh, no, thank you! But marriage, Signor Carella, is a very serious
step. Could you not manage more simply? Your relative, for example--"

"Empoli! I would as soon have him in England!"

"England, then--"

He laughed.

"He has a grandmother there, you know--Mrs. Theobald."

"He has a grandmother here. No, he is troublesome, but I must have him
with me. I will not even have my father and mother too. For they would
separate us," he added.

"How?"

"They would separate our thoughts."

She was silent. This cruel, vicious fellow knew of strange refinements.
The horrible truth, that wicked people are capable of love, stood naked
before her, and her moral being was abashed. It was her duty to rescue
the baby, to save it from contagion, and she still meant to do her duty.
But the comfortable sense of virtue left her. She was in the presence of
something greater than right or wrong.

Forgetting that this was an interview, he had strolled back into the
room, driven by the instinct she had aroused in him. "Wake up!" he cried
to his baby, as if it was some grown-up friend. Then he lifted his foot
and trod lightly on its stomach.

Miss Abbott cried, "Oh, take care!" She was unaccustomed to this method
of awakening the young.

"He is not much longer than my boot, is he? Can you believe that in time
his own boots will be as large? And that he also--"

"But ought you to treat him like that?"

He stood with one foot resting on the little body, suddenly musing,
filled with the desire that his son should be like him, and should have
sons like him, to people the earth. It is the strongest desire that can
come to a man--if it comes to him at all--stronger even than love or the
desire for personal immortality. All men vaunt it, and declare that it
is theirs; but the hearts of most are set elsewhere. It is the exception
who comprehends that physical and spiritual life may stream out of him
for ever. Miss Abbott, for all her goodness, could not comprehend it,
though such a thing is more within the comprehension of women. And
when Gino pointed first to himself and then to his baby and said
"father-son," she still took it as a piece of nursery prattle, and
smiled mechanically.

The child, the first fruits, woke up and glared at her. Gino did not
greet it, but continued the exposition of his policy.

"This woman will do exactly what I tell her. She is fond of children.
She is clean; she has a pleasant voice. She is not beautiful; I cannot
pretend that to you for a moment. But she is what I require."

The baby gave a piercing yell.

"Oh, do take care!" begged Miss Abbott. "You are squeezing it."

"It is nothing. If he cries silently then you may be frightened. He
thinks I am going to wash him, and he is quite right."

"Wash him!" she cried. "You? Here?" The homely piece of news seemed
to shatter all her plans. She had spent a long half-hour in elaborate
approaches, in high moral attacks; she had neither frightened her enemy
nor made him angry, nor interfered with the least detail of his domestic
life.

"I had gone to the Farmacia," he continued, "and was sitting there
comfortably, when suddenly I remembered that Perfetta had heated water
an hour ago--over there, look, covered with a cushion. I came away at
once, for really he must be washed. You must excuse me. I can put it off
no longer."

"I have wasted your time," she said feebly.

He walked sternly to the loggia and drew from it a large earthenware
bowl. It was dirty inside; he dusted it with a tablecloth. Then he
fetched the hot water, which was in a copper pot. He poured it out. He
added cold. He felt in his pocket and brought out a piece of soap. Then
he took up the baby, and, holding his cigar between his teeth, began to
unwrap it. Miss Abbott turned to go.

"But why are you going? Excuse me if I wash him while we talk."

"I have nothing more to say," said Miss Abbott. All she could do now
was to find Philip, confess her miserable defeat, and bid him go in
her stead and prosper better. She cursed her feebleness; she longed to
expose it, without apologies or tears.

"Oh, but stop a moment!" he cried. "You have not seen him yet."

"I have seen as much as I want, thank you."

The last wrapping slid off. He held out to her in his two hands a little
kicking image of bronze.

"Take him!"

She would not touch the child.

"I must go at once," she cried; for the tears--the wrong tears--were
hurrying to her eyes.

"Who would have believed his mother was blonde? For he is brown all
over--brown every inch of him. Ah, but how beautiful he is! And he is
mine; mine for ever. Even if he hates me he will be mine. He cannot help
it; he is made out of me; I am his father."

It was too late to go. She could not tell why, but it was too late.
She turned away her head when Gino lifted his son to his lips. This was
something too remote from the prettiness of the nursery. The man was
majestic; he was a part of Nature; in no ordinary love scene could he
ever be so great. For a wonderful physical tie binds the parents to the
children; and--by some sad, strange irony--it does not bind us children
to our parents. For if it did, if we could answer their love not with
gratitude but with equal love, life would lose much of its pathos
and much of its squalor, and we might be wonderfully happy. Gino
passionately embracing, Miss Abbott reverently averting her eyes--both
of them had parents whom they did not love so very much.

"May I help you to wash him?" she asked humbly.

He gave her his son without speaking, and they knelt side by side,
tucking up their sleeves. The child had stopped crying, and his arms and
legs were agitated by some overpowering joy. Miss Abbott had a woman's
pleasure in cleaning anything--more especially when the thing was human.
She understood little babies from long experience in a district, and
Gino soon ceased to give her directions, and only gave her thanks.

"It is very kind of you," he murmured, "especially in your beautiful
dress. He is nearly clean already. Why, I take the whole morning! There
is so much more of a baby than one expects. And Perfetta washes him just
as she washes clothes. Then he screams for hours. My wife is to have a
light hand. Ah, how he kicks! Has he splashed you? I am very sorry."

"I am ready for a soft towel now," said Miss Abbott, who was strangely
exalted by the service.

"Certainly! certainly!" He strode in a knowing way to a cupboard. But
he had no idea where the soft towel was. Generally he dabbed the baby on
the first dry thing he found.

"And if you had any powder."

He struck his forehead despairingly. Apparently the stock of powder was
just exhausted.

She sacrificed her own clean handkerchief. He put a chair for her on the
loggia, which faced westward, and was still pleasant and cool. There she
sat, with twenty miles of view behind her, and he placed the dripping
baby on her knee. It shone now with health and beauty: it seemed to
reflect light, like a copper vessel. Just such a baby Bellini sets
languid on his mother's lap, or Signorelli flings wriggling on pavements
of marble, or Lorenzo di Credi, more reverent but less divine, lays
carefully among flowers, with his head upon a wisp of golden straw. For
a time Gino contemplated them standing. Then, to get a better view, he
knelt by the side of the chair, with his hands clasped before him.

So they were when Philip entered, and saw, to all intents and purposes,
the Virgin and Child, with Donor.

"Hullo!" he exclaimed; for he was glad to find things in such cheerful
trim.

She did not greet him, but rose up unsteadily and handed the baby to his
father.

"No, do stop!" whispered Philip. "I got your note. I'm not offended;
you're quite right. I really want you; I could never have done it
alone."

No words came from her, but she raised her hands to her mouth, like one
who is in sudden agony.

"Signorina, do stop a little--after all your kindness."

She burst into tears.

"What is it?" said Philip kindly.

She tried to speak, and then went away weeping bitterly.

The two men stared at each other. By a common impulse they ran on to the
loggia. They were just in time to see Miss Abbott disappear among the
trees.

"What is it?" asked Philip again. There was no answer, and somehow he
did not want an answer. Some strange thing had happened which he could
not presume to understand. He would find out from Miss Abbott, if ever
he found out at all.

"Well, your business," said Gino, after a puzzled sigh.

"Our business--Miss Abbott has told you of that."

"No."

"But surely--"

"She came for business. But she forgot about it; so did I."

Perfetta, who had a genius for missing people, now returned, loudly
complaining of the size of Monteriano and the intricacies of its
streets. Gino told her to watch the baby. Then he offered Philip a
cigar, and they proceeded to the business.


Chapter 8

"Mad!" screamed Harriet,--"absolutely stark, staring, raving mad!"

Philip judged it better not to contradict her.

"What's she here for? Answer me that. What's she doing in Monteriano in
August? Why isn't she in Normandy? Answer that. She won't. I can: she's
come to thwart us; she's betrayed us--got hold of mother's plans. Oh,
goodness, my head!"

He was unwise enough to reply, "You mustn't accuse her of that. Though
she is exasperating, she hasn't come here to betray us."

"Then why has she come here? Answer me that."

He made no answer. But fortunately his sister was too much agitated
to wait for one. "Bursting in on me--crying and looking a disgusting
sight--and says she has been to see the Italian. Couldn't even talk
properly; pretended she had changed her opinions. What are her opinions
to us? I was very calm. I said: 'Miss Abbott, I think there is a
little misapprehension in this matter. My mother, Mrs. Herriton--' Oh,
goodness, my head! Of course you've failed--don't trouble to answer--I
know you've failed. Where's the baby, pray? Of course you haven't got
it. Dear sweet Caroline won't let you. Oh, yes, and we're to go away at
once and trouble the father no more. Those are her commands. Commands!
COMMANDS!" And Harriet also burst into tears.

Philip governed his temper. His sister was annoying, but quite
reasonable in her indignation. Moreover, Miss Abbott had behaved even
worse than she supposed.

"I've not got the baby, Harriet, but at the same time I haven't
exactly failed. I and Signor Carella are to have another interview
this afternoon, at the Caffe Garibaldi. He is perfectly reasonable and
pleasant. Should you be disposed to come with me, you would find him
quite willing to discuss things. He is desperately in want of money, and
has no prospect of getting any. I discovered that. At the same time, he
has a certain affection for the child." For Philip's insight, or perhaps
his opportunities, had not been equal to Miss Abbott's.

Harriet would only sob, and accuse her brother of insulting her; how
could a lady speak to such a horrible man? That, and nothing else, was
enough to stamp Caroline. Oh, poor Lilia!

Philip drummed on the bedroom window-sill. He saw no escape from the
deadlock. For though he spoke cheerfully about his second interview with
Gino, he felt at the bottom of his heart that it would fail. Gino was
too courteous: he would not break off negotiations by sharp denial; he
loved this civil, half-humorous bargaining. And he loved fooling his
opponent, and did it so nicely that his opponent did not mind being
fooled.

"Miss Abbott has behaved extraordinarily," he said at last; "but at the
same time--"

His sister would not hear him. She burst forth again on the madness, the
interference, the intolerable duplicity of Caroline.

"Harriet, you must listen. My dear, you must stop crying. I have
something quite important to say."

"I shall not stop crying," said she. But in time, finding that he would
not speak to her, she did stop.

"Remember that Miss Abbott has done us no harm. She said nothing to him
about the matter. He assumes that she is working with us: I gathered
that."

"Well, she isn't."

"Yes; but if you're careful she may be. I interpret her behaviour thus:
She went to see him, honestly intending to get the child away. In the
note she left me she says so, and I don't believe she'd lie."

"I do."

"When she got there, there was some pretty domestic scene between him
and the baby, and she has got swept off in a gush of sentimentalism.
Before very long, if I know anything about psychology, there will be a
reaction. She'll be swept back."

"I don't understand your long words. Say plainly--"

"When she's swept back, she'll be invaluable. For she has made quite an
impression on him. He thinks her so nice with the baby. You know, she
washed it for him."

"Disgusting!"

Harriet's ejaculations were more aggravating than the rest of her. But
Philip was averse to losing his temper. The access of joy that had come
to him yesterday in the theatre promised to be permanent. He was more
anxious than heretofore to be charitable towards the world.

"If you want to carry off the baby, keep your peace with Miss Abbott.
For if she chooses, she can help you better than I can."

"There can be no peace between me and her," said Harriet gloomily.

"Did you--"

"Oh, not all I wanted. She went away before I had finished
speaking--just like those cowardly people!--into the church."

"Into Santa Deodata's?"

"Yes; I'm sure she needs it. Anything more unchristian--"

In time Philip went to the church also, leaving his sister a little
calmer and a little disposed to think over his advice. What had come
over Miss Abbott? He had always thought her both stable and sincere.
That conversation he had had with her last Christmas in the train to
Charing Cross--that alone furnished him with a parallel. For the second
time, Monteriano must have turned her head. He was not angry with her,
for he was quite indifferent to the outcome of their expedition. He was
only extremely interested.

It was now nearly midday, and the streets were clearing. But the intense
heat had broken, and there was a pleasant suggestion of rain. The
Piazza, with its three great attractions--the Palazzo Pubblico, the
Collegiate Church, and the Caffe Garibaldi: the intellect, the soul, and
the body--had never looked more charming. For a moment Philip stood in
its centre, much inclined to be dreamy, and thinking how wonderful it
must feel to belong to a city, however mean. He was here, however, as
an emissary of civilization and as a student of character, and, after a
sigh, he entered Santa Deodata's to continue his mission.

There had been a FESTA two days before, and the church still smelt of
incense and of garlic. The little son of the sacristan was sweeping the
nave, more for amusement than for cleanliness, sending great clouds
of dust over the frescoes and the scattered worshippers. The sacristan
himself had propped a ladder in the centre of the Deluge--which fills
one of the nave spandrels--and was freeing a column from its wealth of
scarlet calico. Much scarlet calico also lay upon the floor--for the
church can look as fine as any theatre--and the sacristan's little
daughter was trying to fold it up. She was wearing a tinsel crown. The
crown really belonged to St. Augustine. But it had been cut too big:
it fell down over his cheeks like a collar: you never saw anything so
absurd. One of the canons had unhooked it just before the FIESTA began,
and had given it to the sacristan's daughter.

"Please," cried Philip, "is there an English lady here?"

The man's mouth was full of tin-tacks, but he nodded cheerfully towards
a kneeling figure. In the midst of this confusion Miss Abbott was
praying.

He was not much surprised: a spiritual breakdown was quite to be
expected. For though he was growing more charitable towards mankind,
he was still a little jaunty, and too apt to stake out beforehand the
course that will be pursued by the wounded soul. It did not surprise
him, however, that she should greet him naturally, with none of the sour
self-consciousness of a person who had just risen from her knees. This
was indeed the spirit of Santa Deodata's, where a prayer to God is
thought none the worse of because it comes next to a pleasant word to
a neighbour. "I am sure that I need it," said she; and he, who had
expected her to be ashamed, became confused, and knew not what to reply.

"I've nothing to tell you," she continued. "I have simply changed
straight round. If I had planned the whole thing out, I could not have
treated you worse. I can talk it over now; but please believe that I
have been crying."

"And please believe that I have not come to scold you," said Philip. "I
know what has happened."

"What?" asked Miss Abbott. Instinctively she led the way to the famous
chapel, the fifth chapel on the right, wherein Giovanni da Empoli has
painted the death and burial of the saint. Here they could sit out of
the dust and the noise, and proceed with a discussion which promised to
be important.

"What might have happened to me--he had made you believe that he loved
the child."

"Oh, yes; he has. He will never give it up."

"At present it is still unsettled."

"It will never be settled."

"Perhaps not. Well, as I said, I know what has happened, and I am not
here to scold you. But I must ask you to withdraw from the thing for the
present. Harriet is furious. But she will calm down when she realizes
that you have done us no harm, and will do none."

"I can do no more," she said. "But I tell you plainly I have changed
sides."

"If you do no more, that is all we want. You promise not to prejudice
our cause by speaking to Signor Carella?"

"Oh, certainly. I don't want to speak to him again; I shan't ever see
him again."

"Quite nice, wasn't he?"

"Quite."

"Well, that's all I wanted to know. I'll go and tell Harriet of your
promise, and I think things'll quiet down now."

But he did not move, for it was an increasing pleasure to him to be
near her, and her charm was at its strongest today. He thought less of
psychology and feminine reaction. The gush of sentimentalism which had
carried her away had only made her more alluring. He was content to
observe her beauty and to profit by the tenderness and the wisdom that
dwelt within her.

"Why aren't you angry with me?" she asked, after a pause.

"Because I understand you--all sides, I think,--Harriet, Signor Carella,
even my mother."

"You do understand wonderfully. You are the only one of us who has a
general view of the muddle."

He smiled with pleasure. It was the first time she had ever praised
him. His eyes rested agreeably on Santa Deodata, who was dying in full
sanctity, upon her back. There was a window open behind her, revealing
just such a view as he had seen that morning, and on her widowed
mother's dresser there stood just such another copper pot. The saint
looked neither at the view nor at the pot, and at her widowed mother
still less. For lo! she had a vision: the head and shoulders of St.
Augustine were sliding like some miraculous enamel along the rough-cast
wall. It is a gentle saint who is content with half another saint to see
her die. In her death, as in her life, Santa Deodata did not accomplish
much.

"So what are you going to do?" said Miss Abbott.

Philip started, not so much at the words as at the sudden change in the
voice. "Do?" he echoed, rather dismayed. "This afternoon I have another
interview."

"It will come to nothing. Well?"

"Then another. If that fails I shall wire home for instructions. I dare
say we may fail altogether, but we shall fail honourably."

She had often been decided. But now behind her decision there was a note
of passion. She struck him not as different, but as more important, and
he minded it very much when she said--

"That's not doing anything! You would be doing something if you
kidnapped the baby, or if you went straight away. But that! To fail
honourably! To come out of the thing as well as you can! Is that all you
are after?"

"Why, yes," he stammered. "Since we talk openly, that is all I am after
just now. What else is there? If I can persuade Signor Carella to give
in, so much the better. If he won't, I must report the failure to my
mother and then go home. Why, Miss Abbott, you can't expect me to follow
you through all these turns--"

"I don't! But I do expect you to settle what is right and to follow
that. Do you want the child to stop with his father, who loves him and
will bring him up badly, or do you want him to come to Sawston, where
no one loves him, but where he will be brought up well? There is the
question put dispassionately enough even for you. Settle it. Settle
which side you'll fight on. But don't go talking about an 'honourable
failure,' which means simply not thinking and not acting at all."

"Because I understand the position of Signor Carella and of you, it's no
reason that--"

"None at all. Fight as if you think us wrong. Oh, what's the use of your
fair-mindedness if you never decide for yourself? Any one gets hold of
you and makes you do what they want. And you see through them and laugh
at them--and do it. It's not enough to see clearly; I'm muddle-headed
and stupid, and not worth a quarter of you, but I have tried to do
what seemed right at the time. And you--your brain and your insight are
splendid. But when you see what's right you're too idle to do it. You
told me once that we shall be judged by our intentions, not by our
accomplishments. I thought it a grand remark. But we must intend to
accomplish--not sit intending on a chair."

"You are wonderful!" he said gravely.

"Oh, you appreciate me!" she burst out again. "I wish you didn't. You
appreciate us all--see good in all of us. And all the time you are
dead--dead--dead. Look, why aren't you angry?" She came up to him, and
then her mood suddenly changed, and she took hold of both his hands.
"You are so splendid, Mr. Herriton, that I can't bear to see you wasted.
I can't bear--she has not been good to you--your mother."

"Miss Abbott, don't worry over me. Some people are born not to do
things. I'm one of them; I never did anything at school or at the Bar.
I came out to stop Lilia's marriage, and it was too late. I came out
intending to get the baby, and I shall return an 'honourable failure.' I
never expect anything to happen now, and so I am never disappointed.
You would be surprised to know what my great events are. Going to the
theatre yesterday, talking to you now--I don't suppose I shall ever
meet anything greater. I seem fated to pass through the world without
colliding with it or moving it--and I'm sure I can't tell you whether
the fate's good or evil. I don't die--I don't fall in love. And if other
people die or fall in love they always do it when I'm just not there.
You are quite right; life to me is just a spectacle, which--thank God,
and thank Italy, and thank you--is now more beautiful and heartening
than it has ever been before."

She said solemnly, "I wish something would happen to you, my dear
friend; I wish something would happen to you."

"But why?" he asked, smiling. "Prove to me why I don't do as I am."

She also smiled, very gravely. She could not prove it. No argument
existed. Their discourse, splendid as it had been, resulted in nothing,
and their respective opinions and policies were exactly the same when
they left the church as when they had entered it.

Harriet was rude at lunch. She called Miss Abbott a turncoat and a
coward to her face. Miss Abbott resented neither epithet, feeling that
one was justified and the other not unreasonable. She tried to avoid
even the suspicion of satire in her replies. But Harriet was sure
that she was satirical because she was so calm. She got more and more
violent, and Philip at one time feared that she would come to blows.

"Look here!" he cried, with something of the old manner, "it's too
hot for this. We've been talking and interviewing each other all the
morning, and I have another interview this afternoon. I do stipulate for
silence. Let each lady retire to her bedroom with a book."

"I retire to pack," said Harriet. "Please remind Signor Carella, Philip,
that the baby is to be here by half-past eight this evening."

"Oh, certainly, Harriet. I shall make a point of reminding him."

"And order a carriage to take us to the evening train."

"And please," said Miss Abbott, "would you order a carriage for me too?"

"You going?" he exclaimed.

"Of course," she replied, suddenly flushing. "Why not?"

"Why, of course you would be going. Two carriages, then. Two carriages
for the evening train." He looked at his sister hopelessly. "Harriet,
whatever are you up to? We shall never be ready."

"Order my carriage for the evening train," said Harriet, and departed.

"Well, I suppose I shall. And I shall also have my interview with Signor
Carella."

Miss Abbott gave a little sigh.

"But why should you mind? Do you suppose that I shall have the slightest
influence over him?"

"No. But--I can't repeat all that I said in the church. You ought never
to see him again. You ought to bundle Harriet into a carriage, not this
evening, but now, and drive her straight away."

"Perhaps I ought. But it isn't a very big 'ought.' Whatever Harriet and
I do the issue is the same. Why, I can see the splendour of it--even the
humour. Gino sitting up here on the mountain-top with his cub. We come
and ask for it. He welcomes us. We ask for it again. He is equally
pleasant. I'm agreeable to spend the whole week bargaining with him. But
I know that at the end of it I shall descend empty-handed to the
plains. It might be finer of me to make up my mind. But I'm not a fine
character. And nothing hangs on it."

"Perhaps I am extreme," she said humbly. "I've been trying to run you,
just like your mother. I feel you ought to fight it out with Harriet.
Every little trifle, for some reason, does seem incalculably important
today, and when you say of a thing that 'nothing hangs on it,' it sounds
like blasphemy. There's never any knowing--(how am I to put it?)--which
of our actions, which of our idlenesses won't have things hanging on it
for ever."

He assented, but her remark had only an aesthetic value. He was not
prepared to take it to his heart. All the afternoon he rested--worried,
but not exactly despondent. The thing would jog out somehow. Probably
Miss Abbott was right. The baby had better stop where it was loved. And
that, probably, was what the fates had decreed. He felt little interest
in the matter, and he was sure that he had no influence.

It was not surprising, therefore, that the interview at the Caffe
Garibaldi came to nothing. Neither of them took it very seriously. And
before long Gino had discovered how things lay, and was ragging his
companion hopelessly. Philip tried to look offended, but in the end
he had to laugh. "Well, you are right," he said. "This affair is being
managed by the ladies."

"Ah, the ladies--the ladies!" cried the other, and then he roared like
a millionaire for two cups of black coffee, and insisted on treating his
friend, as a sign that their strife was over.

"Well, I have done my best," said Philip, dipping a long slice of sugar
into his cup, and watching the brown liquid ascend into it. "I shall
face my mother with a good conscience. Will you bear me witness that
I've done my best?"

"My poor fellow, I will!" He laid a sympathetic hand on Philip's knee.

"And that I have--" The sugar was now impregnated with coffee, and he
bent forward to swallow it. As he did so his eyes swept the opposite of
the Piazza, and he saw there, watching them, Harriet. "Mia sorella!" he
exclaimed. Gino, much amused, laid his hand upon the little table, and
beat the marble humorously with his fists. Harriet turned away and began
gloomily to inspect the Palazzo Pubblico.

"Poor Harriet!" said Philip, swallowing the sugar. "One more wrench and
it will all be over for her; we are leaving this evening."

Gino was sorry for this. "Then you will not be here this evening as you
promised us. All three leaving?"

"All three," said Philip, who had not revealed the secession of Miss
Abbott; "by the night train; at least, that is my sister's plan. So I'm
afraid I shan't be here."

They watched the departing figure of Harriet, and then entered upon the
final civilities. They shook each other warmly by both hands. Philip
was to come again next year, and to write beforehand. He was to be
introduced to Gino's wife, for he was told of the marriage now. He was
to be godfather to his next baby. As for Gino, he would remember some
time that Philip liked vermouth. He begged him to give his love to Irma.
Mrs. Herriton--should he send her his sympathetic regards? No; perhaps
that would hardly do.

So the two young men parted with a good deal of genuine affection. For
the barrier of language is sometimes a blessed barrier, which only lets
pass what is good. Or--to put the thing less cynically--we may be better
in new clean words, which have never been tainted by our pettiness or
vice. Philip, at all events, lived more graciously in Italian, the very
phrases of which entice one to be happy and kind. It was horrible to
think of the English of Harriet, whose every word would be as hard, as
distinct, and as unfinished as a lump of coal.

Harriet, however, talked little. She had seen enough to know that her
brother had failed again, and with unwonted dignity she accepted the
situation. She did her packing, she wrote up her diary, she made a brown
paper cover for the new Baedeker. Philip, finding her so amenable, tried
to discuss their future plans. But she only said that they would sleep
in Florence, and told him to telegraph for rooms. They had supper
alone. Miss Abbott did not come down. The landlady told them that Signor
Carella had called on Miss Abbott to say good-bye, but she, though in,
had not been able to see him. She also told them that it had begun
to rain. Harriet sighed, but indicated to her brother that he was not
responsible.

The carriages came round at a quarter past eight. It was not raining
much, but the night was extraordinarily dark, and one of the drivers
wanted to go slowly to the station. Miss Abbott came down and said that
she was ready, and would start at once.

"Yes, do," said Philip, who was standing in the hall. "Now that we have
quarrelled we scarcely want to travel in procession all the way down the
hill. Well, good-bye; it's all over at last; another scene in my pageant
has shifted."

"Good-bye; it's been a great pleasure to see you. I hope that won't
shift, at all events." She gripped his hand.

"You sound despondent," he said, laughing. "Don't forget that you return
victorious."

"I suppose I do," she replied, more despondently than ever, and got into
the carriage. He concluded that she was thinking of her reception at
Sawston, whither her fame would doubtless precede her. Whatever would
Mrs. Herriton do? She could make things quite unpleasant when she
thought it right. She might think it right to be silent, but then there
was Harriet. Who would bridle Harriet's tongue? Between the two of
them Miss Abbott was bound to have a bad time. Her reputation, both for
consistency and for moral enthusiasm, would be lost for ever.

"It's hard luck on her," he thought. "She is a good person. I must do
for her anything I can." Their intimacy had been very rapid, but he too
hoped that it would not shift. He believed that he understood her,
and that she, by now, had seen the worst of him. What if after a
long time--if after all--he flushed like a boy as he looked after her
carriage.

He went into the dining-room to look for Harriet. Harriet was not to
be found. Her bedroom, too, was empty. All that was left of her was
the purple prayer-book which lay open on the bed. Philip took it up
aimlessly, and saw--"Blessed be the Lord my God who teacheth my hands to
war and my fingers to fight." He put the book in his pocket, and began
to brood over more profitable themes.

Santa Deodata gave out half past eight. All the luggage was on, and
still Harriet had not appeared. "Depend upon it," said the landlady,
"she has gone to Signor Carella's to say good-bye to her little nephew."
Philip did not think it likely. They shouted all over the house and
still there was no Harriet. He began to be uneasy. He was helpless
without Miss Abbott; her grave, kind face had cheered him wonderfully,
even when it looked displeased. Monteriano was sad without her; the rain
was thickening; the scraps of Donizetti floated tunelessly out of the
wineshops, and of the great tower opposite he could only see the base,
fresh papered with the advertisements of quacks.

A man came up the street with a note. Philip read, "Start at once. Pick
me up outside the gate. Pay the bearer. H. H."

"Did the lady give you this note?" he cried.

The man was unintelligible.

"Speak up!" exclaimed Philip. "Who gave it you--and where?"

Nothing but horrible sighings and bubblings came out of the man.

"Be patient with him," said the driver, turning round on the box. "It is
the poor idiot." And the landlady came out of the hotel and echoed "The
poor idiot. He cannot speak. He takes messages for us all."

Philip then saw that the messenger was a ghastly creature, quite bald,
with trickling eyes and grey twitching nose. In another country he would
have been shut up; here he was accepted as a public institution, and
part of Nature's scheme.

"Ugh!" shuddered the Englishman. "Signora padrona, find out from him;
this note is from my sister. What does it mean? Where did he see her?"

"It is no good," said the landlady. "He understands everything but he
can explain nothing."

"He has visions of the saints," said the man who drove the cab.

"But my sister--where has she gone? How has she met him?"

"She has gone for a walk," asserted the landlady. It was a nasty
evening, but she was beginning to understand the English. "She has gone
for a walk--perhaps to wish good-bye to her little nephew. Preferring to
come back another way, she has sent you this note by the poor idiot and
is waiting for you outside the Siena gate. Many of my guests do this."

There was nothing to do but to obey the message. He shook hands with
the landlady, gave the messenger a nickel piece, and drove away. After
a dozen yards the carriage stopped. The poor idiot was running and
whimpering behind.

"Go on," cried Philip. "I have paid him plenty."

A horrible hand pushed three soldi into his lap. It was part of the
idiot's malady only to receive what was just for his services. This was
the change out of the nickel piece.

"Go on!" shouted Philip, and flung the money into the road. He was
frightened at the episode; the whole of life had become unreal. It was
a relief to be out of the Siena gate. They drew up for a moment on the
terrace. But there was no sign of Harriet. The driver called to the
Dogana men. But they had seen no English lady pass.

"What am I to do?" he cried; "it is not like the lady to be late. We
shall miss the train."

"Let us drive slowly," said the driver, "and you shall call her by name
as we go."

So they started down into the night, Philip calling "Harriet! Harriet!
Harriet!" And there she was, waiting for them in the wet, at the first
turn of the zigzag.

"Harriet, why don't you answer?"

"I heard you coming," said she, and got quickly in. Not till then did he
see that she carried a bundle.

"What's that?"

"Hush--"

"Whatever is that?"

"Hush--sleeping."

Harriet had succeeded where Miss Abbott and Philip had failed. It was
the baby.

She would not let him talk. The baby, she repeated, was asleep, and she
put up an umbrella to shield it and her from the rain. He should
hear all later, so he had to conjecture the course of the wonderful
interview--an interview between the South pole and the North. It was
quite easy to conjecture: Gino crumpling up suddenly before the intense
conviction of Harriet; being told, perhaps, to his face that he was a
villain; yielding his only son perhaps for money, perhaps for nothing.
"Poor Gino," he thought. "He's no greater than I am, after all."

Then he thought of Miss Abbott, whose carriage must be descending the
darkness some mile or two below them, and his easy self-accusation
failed. She, too, had conviction; he had felt its force; he would feel
it again when she knew this day's sombre and unexpected close.

"You have been pretty secret," he said; "you might tell me a little now.
What do we pay for him? All we've got?"

"Hush!" answered Harriet, and dandled the bundle laboriously, like some
bony prophetess--Judith, or Deborah, or Jael. He had last seen the baby
sprawling on the knees of Miss Abbott, shining and naked, with twenty
miles of view behind him, and his father kneeling by his feet. And
that remembrance, together with Harriet, and the darkness, and the
poor idiot, and the silent rain, filled him with sorrow and with the
expectation of sorrow to come.

Monteriano had long disappeared, and he could see nothing but the
occasional wet stem of an olive, which their lamp illumined as they
passed it. They travelled quickly, for this driver did not care how fast
he went to the station, and would dash down each incline and scuttle
perilously round the curves.

"Look here, Harriet," he said at last, "I feel bad; I want to see the
baby."

"Hush!"

"I don't mind if I do wake him up. I want to see him. I've as much right
in him as you."

Harriet gave in. But it was too dark for him to see the child's face.
"Wait a minute," he whispered, and before she could stop him he had
lit a match under the shelter of her umbrella. "But he's awake!" he
exclaimed. The match went out.

"Good ickle quiet boysey, then."

Philip winced. "His face, do you know, struck me as all wrong."

"All wrong?"

"All puckered queerly."

"Of course--with the shadows--you couldn't see him."

"Well, hold him up again." She did so. He lit another match. It went out
quickly, but not before he had seen that the baby was crying.

"Nonsense," said Harriet sharply. "We should hear him if he cried."

"No, he's crying hard; I thought so before, and I'm certain now."

Harriet touched the child's face. It was bathed in tears. "Oh, the night
air, I suppose," she said, "or perhaps the wet of the rain."

"I say, you haven't hurt it, or held it the wrong way, or anything;
it is too uncanny--crying and no noise. Why didn't you get Perfetta to
carry it to the hotel instead of muddling with the messenger? It's a
marvel he understood about the note."

"Oh, he understands." And he could feel her shudder. "He tried to carry
the baby--"

"But why not Gino or Perfetta?"

"Philip, don't talk. Must I say it again? Don't talk. The baby wants
to sleep." She crooned harshly as they descended, and now and then she
wiped up the tears which welled inexhaustibly from the little eyes.
Philip looked away, winking at times himself. It was as if they were
travelling with the whole world's sorrow, as if all the mystery, all the
persistency of woe were gathered to a single fount. The roads were
now coated with mud, and the carriage went more quietly but not less
swiftly, sliding by long zigzags into the night. He knew the landmarks
pretty well: here was the crossroad to Poggibonsi; and the last view of
Monteriano, if they had light, would be from here. Soon they ought to
come to that little wood where violets were so plentiful in spring. He
wished the weather had not changed; it was not cold, but the air was
extraordinarily damp. It could not be good for the child.

"I suppose he breathes, and all that sort of thing?" he said.

"Of course," said Harriet, in an angry whisper. "You've started him
again. I'm certain he was asleep. I do wish you wouldn't talk; it makes
me so nervous."

"I'm nervous too. I wish he'd scream. It's too uncanny. Poor Gino! I'm
terribly sorry for Gino."

"Are you?"

"Because he's weak--like most of us. He doesn't know what he wants. He
doesn't grip on to life. But I like that man, and I'm sorry for him."

Naturally enough she made no answer.

"You despise him, Harriet, and you despise me. But you do us no good
by it. We fools want some one to set us on our feet. A somewhat
ultra-medicinal power of herbs, the introduction of an oracle in the
preliminary history and of a wholly superfluous seer in the
_dénoûment_ make up the whole sum so far as the _Pastor fido_ is
concerned, while the _Aminta_ cannot even show as much as this.

In the _Faithful Shepherdess_ we find not only the potent herbs,
holy water, and magic taper of Clorin's bower, but the wonder-working
well and the actual presence of the river-god, who rises, not to
pay courtly compliments in the prologue, but to take an actual part
in the plot[265].

Alike in its positive and negative aspects Fletcher's relation to the
Italian masters was conscious and acknowledged.

Far from feigning ignorance, he boldly challenged comparison with
his predecessors by imitating the very title of Guarini's play, or
yet closer, had he known it, that of Contarini's _Fida ninfa_[266].

A glance at the dramatis personae reveals a curious artificial symmetry
which, as we shall shortly see, is significant of the spirit in which
Fletcher approached the composition of his play. In Clorin we have a
nymph vowed to perpetual virginity, an anchorite at the tomb of her dead
lover; in Thenot a worshipper of her constancy, whose love she
cures by feigning a return.

In Perigot and Amoret are represented a pair of ideal lovers--so Fletcher
gives us to understand--in whose chaste bosoms dwell no looser flames.
Amarillis is genuinely enamoured of Perigot, with a love that bids
modesty farewell, and will dare even crime and dishonour for its
attainment; Cloe, as already said, is a study in erotic pathology.

She is the female counterpart of the Sullen Shepherd, who inherits the
traditional nature of the satyr, that monster having been transformed
into the gentle minister of the cloistral Clorin.

So, again, the character of Amarillis finds its counterpart in that of
Alexis, whose love for Cloe is at least human; while Daphnis, who
meets Cloe's desperate advances with a shy innocence, is in effect,
whatever he may have been in intention, hardly other than a comic
character.

The river-god and the satyr, the priest of Pan and his attendant Old
Shepherd, who themselves stand outside the circle of amorous
intrigue, complete the list of personae.

The action which centres round these characters cannot be regarded
as forming a plot in any strict sense of the term, though Fletcher has
reaped a little praise here and there for his construction of one.

It is hardly too much to say that the various complications arise and are
solved, leaving the situation at the end precisely as it was at
the beginning.

Even so may the mailed figures in some ancestral hall start into life
at the stroke of midnight, and hold high revel with the fair dames
and damsels from out the gilt frames upon the walls, content to range
themselves once more and pose in their former attitudes as soon as the
first grey light of morning shimmers through the mullioned windows.
Perigot and Amoret come through the trials of the night with their
love unshaken, but apparently no nearer its fulfilment; Thenot's
love for Clorin is cured for the moment, but is in danger of breaking
out anew when he shall discover that she is after all constant to
her vow; Cloe recovers from her amorous possession; the vagrant
desires of Amarillis and Alexis are dispelled by the 'sage precepts'
of the priest and Clorin; Daphnis' innocence is seemingly unstained
by the hours he has spent with Cloe in the hollow tree; while the
Sullen Shepherd, unregenerate and defiant, is banished the confines
of pastoral Thessaly.

What we have witnessed was no more than the comedy of errors of a
midsummer night.

The play, nevertheless, possesses merits which it would be unfair
to neglect.

Narrative is, in the first place, entirely dispensed with in favour of
actual representation, though the result, it must be admitted, is
somewhat kaleidoscopic. Next, the action is complete within itself,
and needs no previous history to explain it; no slight advantage for
stage representation.

As a result the interest is kept constantly whetted, the movement
is brisk and varied, and with the help of the verse goes far towards
carrying off the many imperfections of the piece.

It will have been already noticed that the characters fall into certain
distinct groups which may be regarded as exemplifying certain aspects of
love. Supersensuous sentiment, chaste and honourable regard, too colourless
almost to deserve the name of love, natural and unrestrained desire,
and violent lust, all these are clearly typified.

What we fail to find is the presentment of a love which shall reveal
men and women neither as beasts of instinct nor as carved figures of
alabaster fit only to adorn a tomb.

This typical nature of the characters has given rise to a theory
recently propounded that the play should be regarded as an allegory
illustrative of certain aspects of love[267].

So regarded much of the absurdity, alike of the characters and
of the action, is said to disappear. This may be so, but does it
really mean anything more than that abstractions not being in fact
possessed of character at all, and being as ideals unfettered by any
demands of probability, absurdities pass unnoticed in their case which
at the touchstone of actuality at once start into glaring prominence?
Moreover, though the _Faithful Shepherdess_ was among the first fruits
of its author's genius, and though it may be contended that he never
gained a complete mastery over the difficult art of dramatic construction,
Fletcher early proved his familiarity with the popular demands of the
romantic stage, and was far too practical a craftsman to be likely
to add the dead-weight of a moral allegory to the already dangerous
form of the Arcadian pastoral.

The theory does not in reality bring the problem presented by Fletcher's
play any nearer solution; since, if the characters are regarded solely
as representing abstract ideas, such as chastity, desire, lust, they
strip themselves of every shred of dramatic interest, and could not, as
Fletcher must have known, stand the least chance upon the stage;
while if they take to cover their nakedness however diaphanous a veil
of dramatic personality, the absurdities of character and plot at
once become apparent.

What truth there may be underlying this theory will, I think, be
best explained upon a different hypothesis.

Let us in the first place endeavour, so far as may be possible after
the lapse of nearly three centuries, to realize the mental attitude
of the author in approaching the composition of his play. In order
to do this a closer analysis of the piece will be necessary.

The first point of importance for the interpretation of Fletcher's
pastoralism is to be found in the quaintly self-confident preface which
he prefixed to the printed edition.

Throughout our inquiry we have observed two main types of pastoral, to
one or other of which all work in this kind approaches; that, namely,
in which the interest depends upon some allegorical or topical meaning
lying beneath and beyond the apparent form, and that in which it
is confined to the actual and obvious presentment itself. Of the
former type Drayton wrote in the preface to his Pastorals:
'The subject of Pastorals, as the language of it, ought to be poor,
silly, and of the coursest Woofe in appearance.

Neverthelesse, the most High and most Noble Matters of the World may
bee shaddowed in them, and for certaine sometimes are[268]. In his preface
to the _Faithful Shepherdess_ the author adopts the opposite position,
as Daniel, in the prologue to the _Queen's Arcadia_, and in spite
of the strongly topical nature of that piece, had done before him.

Fletcher in an often-quoted passage writes:
'Understand, therefore, a pastoral to be a representation of shepherds
and shepherdesses with their actions and passions, which must be
such as may agree with their natures, at least not exceeding former
fictions and vulgar traditions; they are not to be adorned with any
art, but such improper [i.e. common] ones as nature is said to
bestow, as singing and poetry; or such as experience may teach them,
as the virtues of herbs and fountains, the ordinary course of the
sun, moon, and stars, and such like.'

His interest would, then, appear to lie in a more or less realistic
representation, and he appears more concerned to enforce a reasonable
propriety of character than to discover deep matters of philosophy
and state.

This passage alone would, therefore, make the theory we glanced at
above improbable. Fletcher next proceeds, in a passage of some interest
in the history of criticism: 'A tragi-comedy is not so called in respect
of mirth and killing, but in respect it wants deaths, which is enough
to make it no tragedy, yet brings some near it, which is enough to
make it no comedy, which must be a representation of familiar
people, with such kind of trouble as no life be questioned; so that
a god is as lawful in this as in a tragedy, and mean people as in
a comedy.'

One would hardly have supposed it necessary to define tragi-comedy
to the English public in 1610, and even had it been necessary, this
could hardly be accepted as a very satisfactory definition.

The audience, 'having ever had a singular gift in defining,' as the author
sarcastically remarks, concluded a pastoral tragi-comedy 'to be a play
of country hired shepherds in gray cloaks, with curtailed dogs in
strings, sometimes laughing together, and sometimes killing one another';
and after all, so far as tragi-comedy is concerned, their belief
was not unreasonable.

Fletcher's definition is obviously borrowed from the academic criticism
of the renaissance, and bears no relation to the living tradition
of the English stage: since his play suggests acquaintance with
Guarini's _Pastor fido_, it is perhaps not fantastic to imagine
that in his preface he was indebted to the same author's _Compendio
della poesia tragicomica_.

What is important to note is Fletcher's concern at this point with
critical theory.

Without seeking to dogmatize as to the exact extent of Fletcher's
debt to individual Italian sources, it may safely be maintained
that he was familiar with the writings of the masters of pastoral,
and worked with his eyes open: whatever modifications he introduced
into traditional characters were the result of deliberate intention.

In general, two types of love may be traced in the Italian pastoral,
namely the honest human desire of such characters as Mirtillo and
Amarillis, Dorinda, Aminta, and the more or less close approach
to mere sensuality found in Corisca and the satyrs.

We nowhere find any approach to supersensuous passion, indifferent
to its own consummation; Silvia and Silvio are either entirely
careless, or else touched with a genuine human love.

Nor are the more tumultuous sides of human passion represented, for
it is impossible so to regard Corisca's love for Mirtillo, which
is at bottom nothing but the cynical caprice of the courtesan, who
regards her lovers merely as so many changes of garment--
Molti averne, uno goderne, e cangiar spesso.

Fletcher appears to have thought that success might lie in
extending and refining upon the gamut of love. He possessed, when he set
to work, no plot ready to hand capable of determining his characters,
but appears to have selected what he considered a suitable variety
of types to fill a pastoral stage, not because he desired to be in
any way allegorical, but because in such a case it was the abstract
relationship among the characters which alone could determine his
choice.

Having selected his characters, he further seems to have left them free
to evolve a plot for themselves, a thing they signally failed to do.

Thus there may be a certain truth underlying the theory with which
we started, inasmuch as the characters appear to have been chosen,
not for any particular dramatic business, but for certain abstract
qualities, and some trace of their origin may yet cling about them
in the accomplished work; but that Fletcher deliberately intended
to illustrate a set of psychological conditions, not by dramatic
presentation, but by the use of types and abstractions, is to my
mind incredible.

In the composition of his later plays he had the necessities of a given
plot, incidents, or other fashioning cause, to determine the
characters which it was in its turn to illustrate, and here he
showed resourceful craftsmanship.

In the case of the present play he had to fashion characters _in vacuo_
and then weave them into such a plot as they might be capable of
sustaining.

In other words, he reversed the formai order of artistic creation,
and attempted to make the abstract generate the concrete, instead
of making the individual example imply, while being informed by,
the fundamental idea.

So much for the formal and theoretic side of the question.

A few words as to the general tone and purpose of the play. For some
reason unexplained, having selected his characters, which one may almost
say exhibit every form of love except a wholesome and a human one,
the author deemed it necessary that the whole should redound to the
praise and credit of cloistral virginity and glozing 'honour,' and
whatever else of unreal sentiment the cynicism of the renaissance
had grafted on the superstition of the middle age.

Again comparing the _Faithful Shepherdess_ with Fletcher's other work,
we find that when he is dealing with actual men and women in his
romantic plays he troubles himself little concerning the moral which
it may be possible to extract from his plot; he is rightly conscious
that that at all events is not the business of art: but when he
comes to create _in vacuo_ he is at once obsessed by some Platonic
theory regarding the ethical aim of the poet.

The victory, therefore, shall be with the powers of good, purity and
vestal maidenhood shall triumph and undergo apotheosis at his
hands, the world shall see how fair a monument of stainless womanhood
he can erect in melodious verse.

Well and good; for this is indeed an object to which no self-respecting
person can take exception.

There was, however, one point the importance of which the author
failed to realize, namely, that this ideal which he sought to honour
was one with which he was himself wholly out of sympathy.
Consequently, in place of the supreme picture of womanly purity he intended,
he produced what is no better than a grotesque caricature.

His cynical indifference is not only evident from many of his other
works, but constantly forces itself upon our attention even in the
present play. The falsity of his whole position appears in the unconvincing
conventionality of the patterns of chastity themselves, and in the
unreality of the characters which serve them as foils--Cloe being
utterly preposterous except as a study in pathlogy, and Amarillis
essentially a tragic figure who can only be tolerated on condition
of her real character being carefully veiled.

It appears again in the utterly irrational conversion and purification
of these characters, and we may further face it in the profound
cynicism, all the more terrible because apparently unconscious,
with which the author is content to dismiss Thenot, cured of his
altruistic devotion by the shattering at one blow of all that he
held most sacred in woman.

Philip looked away, as he sometimes looked away from the great pictures
where visible forms suddenly become inadequate for the things they have
shown to us. He was happy; he was assured that there was greatness in
the world. There came to him an earnest desire to be good through the
example of this good woman. He would try henceforward to be worthy of
the things she had revealed. Quietly, without hysterical prayers or
banging of drums, he underwent conversion. He was saved.

"That milk," said she, "need not be wasted. Take it, Signor Carella, and
persuade Mr. Herriton to drink."

Gino obeyed her, and carried the child's milk to Philip. And Philip
obeyed also and drank.

"Is there any left?"

"A little," answered Gino.

"Then finish it." For she was determined to use such remnants as lie
about the world.

"Will you not have some?"

"I do not care for milk; finish it all."

"Philip, have you had enough milk?"

"Yes, thank you, Gino; finish it all."

He drank the milk, and then, either by accident or in some spasm of
pain, broke the jug to pieces. Perfetta exclaimed in bewilderment. "It
does not matter," he told her. "It does not matter. It will never be
wanted any more."


Chapter 10

"He will have to marry her," said Philip. "I heard from him this
morning, just as we left Milan. He finds he has gone too far to back
out. It would be expensive. I don't know how much he minds--not as much
as we suppose, I think. At all events there's not a word of blame in the
letter. I don't believe he even feels angry. I never was so completely
forgiven. Ever since you stopped him killing me, it has been a vision of
perfect friendship. He nursed me, he lied for me at the inquest, and at
the funeral, though he was crying, you would have thought it was my son
who had died. Certainly I was the only person he had to be kind to;
he was so distressed not to make Harriet's acquaintance, and that he
scarcely saw anything of you. In his letter he says so again."

"Thank him, please, when you write," said Miss Abbott, "and give him my
kindest regards."

"Indeed I will." He was surprised that she could slide away from the
man so easily. For his own part, he was bound by ties of almost alarming
intimacy. Gino had the southern knack of friendship. In the intervals
of business he would pull out Philip's life, turn it inside out,
remodel it, and advise him how to use it for the best. The sensation was
pleasant, for he was a kind as well as a skilful operator. But Philip
came away feeling that he had not a secret corner left. In that
very letter Gino had again implored him, as a refuge from domestic
difficulties, "to marry Miss Abbott, even if her dowry is small." And
how Miss Abbott herself, after such tragic intercourse, could resume
the conventions and send calm messages of esteem, was more than he could
understand.

"When will you see him again?" she asked. They were standing together in
the corridor of the train, slowly ascending out of Italy towards the San
Gothard tunnel.

"I hope next spring. Perhaps we shall paint Siena red for a day or
two with some of the new wife's money. It was one of the arguments for
marrying her."

"He has no heart," she said severely. "He does not really mind about the
child at all."

"No; you're wrong. He does. He is unhappy, like the rest of us. But he
doesn't try to keep up appearances as we do. He knows that the things
that have made him happy once will probably make him happy again--"

"He said he would never be happy again."

"In his passion. Not when he was calm. We English say it when we are
calm--when we do not really believe it any longer. Gino is not ashamed
of inconsistency. It is one of the many things I like him for."

"Yes; I was wrong. That is so."

"He's much more honest with himself than I am," continued Philip, "and
he is honest without an effort and without pride. But you, Miss Abbott,
what about you? Will you be in Italy next spring?"

"No."

"I'm sorry. When will you come back, do you think?"

"I think never."

"For whatever reason?" He stared at her as if she were some monstrosity.

"Because I understand the place. There is no need."

"Understand Italy!" he exclaimed.

"Perfectly."

"Well, I don't. And I don't understand you," he murmured to himself, as
he paced away from her up the corridor. By this time he loved her very
much, and he could not bear to be puzzled. He had reached love by the
spiritual path: her thoughts and her goodness and her nobility had
moved him first, and now her whole body and all its gestures had become
transfigured by them. The beauties that are called obvious--the beauties
of her hair and her voice and her limbs--he had noticed these
last; Gino, who never traversed any path at all, had commended them
dispassionately to his friend.

Why was he so puzzling? He had known so much about her once--what she
thought, how she felt, the reasons for her actions. And now he only knew
that he loved her, and all the other knowledge seemed passing from him
just as he needed it most. Why would she never come to Italy again? Why
had she avoided himself and Gino ever since the evening that she had
saved their lives? The train was nearly empty. Harriet slumbered in
a compartment by herself. He must ask her these questions now, and he
returned quickly to her down the corridor.

She greeted him with a question of her own. "Are your plans decided?"

"Yes. I can't live at Sawston."

"Have you told Mrs. Herriton?"

"I wrote from Monteriano. I tried to explain things; but she will
never understand me. Her view will be that the affair is settled--sadly
settled since the baby is dead. Still it's over; our family circle need
be vexed no more. She won't even be angry with you. You see, you have
done us no harm in the long run. Unless, of course, you talk about
Harriet and make a scandal. So that is my plan--London and work. What is
yours?"

"Poor Harriet!" said Miss Abbott. "As if I dare judge Harriet! Or
anybody." And without replying to Philip's question she left him to
visit the other invalid.

Philip gazed after her mournfully, and then he looked mournfully out of
the window at the decreasing streams. All the excitement was over--the
inquest, Harriet's short illness, his own visit to the surgeon. He was
convalescent, both in body and spirit, but convalescence brought no joy.
In the looking-glass at the end of the corridor he saw his face haggard,
and his shoulders pulled forward by the weight of the sling. Life was
greater than he had supposed, but it was even less complete. He had seen
the need for strenuous work and for righteousness. And now he saw what a
very little way those things would go.

"Is Harriet going to be all right?" he asked. Miss Abbott had come back
to him.

"She will soon be her old self," was the reply. For Harriet, after a
short paroxysm of illness and remorse, was quickly returning to her
normal state. She had been "thoroughly upset" as she phrased it, but
she soon ceased to realize that anything was wrong beyond the death of
a poor little child. Already she spoke of "this unlucky accident," and
"the mysterious frustration of one's attempts to make things better."
Miss Abbott had seen that she was comfortable, and had given her a kind
kiss. But she returned feeling that Harriet, like her mother, considered
the affair as settled.

"I'm clear enough about Harriet's future, and about parts of my own. But
I ask again, What about yours?"

"Sawston and work," said Miss Abbott.

"No."

"Why not?" she asked, smiling.

"You've seen too much. You've seen as much and done more than I have."

"But it's so different. Of course I shall go to Sawston. You forget
my father; and even if he wasn't there, I've a hundred ties: my
district--I'm neglecting it shamefully--my evening classes, the St.
James'--"

"Silly nonsense!" he exploded, suddenly moved to have the whole thing
out with her. "You're too good--about a thousand times better than I am.
You can't live in that hole; you must go among people who can hope to
understand you. I mind for myself. I want to see you often--again and
again."

"Of course we shall meet whenever you come down; and I hope that it will
mean often."

"It's not enough; it'll only be in the old horrible way, each with a
dozen relatives round us. No, Miss Abbott; it's not good enough."

"We can write at all events."

"You will write?" he cried, with a flush of pleasure. At times his hopes
seemed so solid.

"I will indeed."

"But I say it's not enough--you can't go back to the old life if you
wanted to. Too much has happened."

"I know that," she said sadly.

"Not only pain and sorrow, but wonderful things: that tower in the
sunlight--do you remember it, and all you said to me? The theatre, even.
And the next day--in the church; and our times with Gino."

"All the wonderful things are over," she said. "That is just where it
is."

"I don't believe it. At all events not for me. The most wonderful things
may be to come--"

"The wonderful things are over," she repeated, and looked at him so
mournfully that he dare not contradict her. The train was crawling up
the last ascent towards the Campanile of Airolo and the entrance of the
tunnel.

"Miss Abbott," he murmured, speaking quickly, as if their free
intercourse might soon be ended, "what is the matter with you? I
thought I understood you, and I don't. All those two great first days at
Monteriano I read you as clearly as you read me still. I saw why you
had come, and why you changed sides, and afterwards I saw your wonderful
courage and pity. And now you're frank with me one moment, as you used
to be, and the next moment you shut me up. You see I owe too much to
you--my life, and I don't know what besides. I won't stand it. You've
gone too far to turn mysterious. I'll quote what you said to me: 'Don't
be mysterious; there isn't the time.' I'll quote something else: 'I and
my life must be where I live.' You can't live at Sawston."

He had moved her at last. She whispered to herself hurriedly. "It is
tempting--" And those three words threw him into a tumult of joy. What
was tempting to her? After all was the greatest of things possible?
Perhaps, after long estrangement, after much tragedy, the South had
brought them together in the end. That laughter in the theatre, those
silver stars in the purple sky, even the violets of a departed spring,
all had helped, and sorrow had helped also, and so had tenderness to
others.

"It is tempting," she repeated, "not to be mysterious. I've wanted often
to tell you, and then been afraid. I could never tell any one else,
certainly no woman, and I think you're the one man who might understand
and not be disgusted."

.

[175] _Aminta_, I. i; _Canace_, IV. ii.

[176] _Lettere del Guarini_, Veneta, Ciotti, 1615, p. 92. See Rossi,
56^{1}

[177] I have already had occasion to point out that, from the time of
Boccaccio onwards, a nymph of Diana might represent a nun, but the whole
of Silvia's relations with Dafne make it plain that she is in no
way vowed to virginity.

Her being represented as a follower of Diana implies no more than that
she is fancy-free, and so in a sense under the protection of the virgin
goddess.

This use of the phrase is as old as Theocritus: 'Artemis, be not wrathful,
thy votary breaks her vow' (_Idyl_ 27). And it is so used by Silvia
herself in her proud and petulant retort to Aminta: 'Pastor, non mi
toccar; son di Diana' (III. i)

.

[178] The idea passed from Italian into English verse:

tell me why This goblin 'honour,' by the world enshrined, Should
make men atheists, and not women kind--
to improve upon the exceedingly neat bowdlerization which the Rev.

J. W.
Ebsworth has sought to palm off as the genuine text of Tom Carew.

[179] We have, in the passages quoted, a foretaste of the priggish
extravagance of the _Faithful Shepherdess_. That there should have
been found critics to combine just but wholly otiose condemnation of
Cloe with reverential appreciation of the absurdities of Clorin and
Thenot, and to clap applause to the self-conscious virtue, little
removed from smugness, in which the 'moral grandeur' of the Lady of the
Ludlow masque is clothed, is indeed a striking witness to the tyranny
of conventional morality. If virginal purity were in fact the hypocritical
convention which it is to some extent possible to condone in the
_Aminta_, but which becomes wholly loathsome in the work of Fletcher,
the sooner it disappeared from the region of practical ethics the
better for the moral health of humanity

.

[180] Menagio's edition is said to have appeared in 1650, but I have
only seen the edition of 1655, which I also notice is the date given
by Weise and Pèrcopo (p. 319).

The play is said to have been printed in Italy alone some two hundred
times; there are twenty French translations, five German, at least
nine English, several in Spanish and other languages.

A version in the Slavonic Illyrian dialect appeared in 1598; a Latin
one in iambic trimeters by Andrea Hiltebrando, a Pomeranian physician,
in 1615; another in modern Greek in 1745. See Carducci, p. 99.

[181] Published, together with Paglia's reply, by Antonio Bulifon
in his _Lettere memorabili_, Naples, 1698, iii. p. 307.

The play had already been adversely criticized by Francesco Patrizi
and Gian Vincenzo Gravina

.

[182] 'L'Aminta difeso e illustrato da G. Fontanini,' Roma, 1700. Another
edition appeared in 1730 at Venice, with further annotations by
Uberto Benvoglienti

.

[183] It is, however, perfectly true that the play, together with the
writings in its defence and the notes, to be considered later, occupied
the attention of the author for a period of fully twenty years,
and it is possibly thus that the tradition arose.

I may say that throughout this section I am under deep obligations to
Rossi's monograph.

[184] Rossi, p. 183. I shall return to the point.

[185] In later days he was often called Giovanbattista, but the addition
is without authority, in spite of its appearance in the British Museum
catalogue.

[186] This preliminary history is drawn, as Guarini himself points out
in his notes of 1602, from Pausanias (VII. 21), though less closely than
he there implies. The rest of the plot he claimed as original, but it
is to a large extent merely a rehandling of the same motive

.

[187] Carino is said to represent Guarini in the same manner as Tirsi
does Tasso.

[188] There is a legend that this scene was placed on the Index.
This, anyhow, cannot refer to the _Index Librorum Prohibitorum_,
but only to the _Index Expurgatorius_, which was at no time an
officiai publication. But the whole story appears to be without
foundation.
[189] In comparing the two pieces, it is worth remembering that,
whereas the _Aminta_ contains about 2,000 lines, the _Pastor fido_
runs to close upon 7,000.
[190] _Storia della letteratura italiana nel secolo XVI_, Milano,
1880, pp. 244-7. See Rossi, p. 264. His argument is that it anticipated
a revolt against the conventional nature of domestic love, reflecting
better than any other dramatic work the ideas that towards the end
of the _cinquecento_ were, according to him, leading in the direction
of a moral regeneration of Italian Society.He could even be glad
that she had once held the beloved in her arms.

"Don't talk of 'faults.' You're my friend for ever, Mr. Herriton, I
think. Only don't be charitable and shift or take the blame. Get over
supposing I'm refined. That's what puzzles you. Get over that."

As he spoke she seemed to be transfigured, and to have indeed no part
with refinement or unrefinement any longer. Out of this wreck there was
revealed to him something indestructible--something which she, who had
given it, could never take away.

"I say again, don't be charitable. If he had asked me, I might have
given myself body and soul. That would have been the end of my rescue
party. But all through he took me for a superior being--a goddess. I
who was worshipping every inch of him, and every word he spoke. And that
saved me."

Philip's eyes were fixed on the Campanile of Airolo. But he saw instead
the fair myth of Endymion. This woman was a goddess to the end. For
her no love could be degrading: she stood outside all degradation. This
episode, which she thought so sordid, and which was so tragic for him,
remained supremely beautiful. To such a height was he lifted, that
without regret he could now have told her that he was her worshipper
too. But what was the use of telling her? For all the wonderful things
had happened.

"Thank you," was all that he permitted himself. "Thank you for
everything."

She looked at him with great friendliness, for he had made her life
endurable. At that moment the train entered the San Gothard tunnel. They
hurried back to the carriage to close the windows lest the smuts should
get into Harriet's eyes.