
    "Say, mighty pow'r, how long shall strife prevail,
  "And with its murmurs load the whisp'ring gale?
  "Refer the cause to Recollection's shrine,
  "Who loud proclaims my origin divine,
  "The cause whence heav'n and earth began to be,
  "And is not man immortaliz'd by me?
  "Reason let this most causeless strife subside."
  Thus Love pronounc'd, and Reason thus reply'd.
    "Thy birth, coelestial queen! 'tis mine to own,
  "In thee resplendent is the Godhead shown;
  "Thy words persuade, my soul enraptur'd feels
  "Resistless beauty which thy smile reveals."
  Watch the clouds, and if you see a storm coming,
  hurry home, so as to get in before the rain."
Ollie promised to do as she was told and kissing her mother good-by
she ran down-stairs. She found Lucy standing by the fence, looking
over into Mr.Infinite Love where'er we turn our eyes
  Appears: this ev'ry creature's wants supplies;
  This most is heard in Nature's constant voice,
  This makes the morn, and this the eve rejoice;
  This bids the fost'ring rains and dews descend
  To nourish all, to serve one gen'ral end,
  The good of man: yet man ungrateful pays
  But little homage, and but little praise.
  To him, whose works arry'd with mercy shine,
  What songs should rise, how constant, how divine!


  To a Lady on the Death of three Relations.

  WE trace the pow'r of Death from tomb to tomb,
  And his are all the ages yet to come.
  'Tis his to call the planets from on high,
  To blacken Phoebus, and dissolve the sky;
  His too, when all in his dark realms are hurl'd,
  From its firm base to shake the solid world;
  His fatal sceptre rules the spacious whole,
  And trembling nature rocks from pole to pole.
    Awful he moves, and wide his wings are spread:
  Behold thy brother number'd with the dead!
  From bondage freed, the exulting spirit flies
  Beyond Olympus, and these starry skies.
  Lost in our woe for thee, blest shade, we mourn
  In vain; to earth thou never must return.
  Thy sisters too, fair mourner, feel the dart
  Of Death, and with fresh torture rend thine heart.
  Weep not for them, and leave the world behind.
    As a young plant by hurricanes up torn,
  So near its parent lies the newly born--
  But 'midst the bright ehtereal train behold
  It shines superior on a throne of gold:
  Then, mourner, cease; let hope thy tears restrain,
  Smile on the tomb, and sooth the raging pain.
  On yon blest regions fix thy longing view,
  Mindless of sublunary scenes below;
  Ascend the sacred mount, in thought arise,
  And seek substantial and immortal joys;
  Where hope receives, where faith to vision springs,
  And raptur'd seraphs tune th' immortal strings
  To strains extatic.  Thou the chorus join,
  And to thy father tune the praise divine.


  To a Clergyman on the Death of his Lady.

  WHERE contemplation finds her sacred spring,
  Where heav'nly music makes the arches ring,
  Where virtue reigns unsully'd and divine,
  Where wisdom thron'd, and all the graces shine,
  There sits thy spouse amidst the radiant throng,
  While praise eternal warbles from her tongue;
  There choirs angelic shout her welcome round,
  With perfect bliss, and peerless glory crown'd.
    While thy dear mate, to flesh no more confin'd,
  Exults a blest, an heav'n-ascended mind,
  Say in thy breast shall floods of sorrow rise?
  Say shall its torrents overwhelm thine eyes?
  Amid the seats of heav'n a place is free,
  And angels open their bright ranks for thee;
  For thee they wait, and with expectant eye
  Thy spouse leans downward from th' empyreal sky:
  "O come away," her longing spirit cries,
  "And share with me the raptures of the skies.
  "Our bliss divine to mortals is unknown;
  "Immortal life and glory are our own.
  "There too may the dear pledges of our love
  "Arrive, and taste with us the joys above;
  "Attune the harp to more than mortal lays,
  "And join with us the tribute of their praise
  "To him, who dy'd stern justice to stone,
  "And make eternal glory all our own.
  "He in his death slew ours, and, as he rose,
  "He crush'd the dire dominion of our foes;
  "Vain were their hopes to put the God to flight,
  "Chain us to hell, and bar the gates of light."
    She spoke, and turn'd from mortal scenes her eyes,
  Which beam'd celestial radiance o'er the skies.
    Then thou dear man, no more with grief retire,
  Let grief no longer damp devotion's fire,
  But rise sublime, to equal bliss aspire,
  Thy sighs no more be wafted by the wind,
  No more complain, but be to heav'n resign'd
  'Twas thine t' unfold the oracles divine,
  To sooth our woes the task was also thine;
  Now sorrow is incumbent on thy heart,
  Permit the muse a cordial to impart;
  Who can to thee their tend'rest aid refuse?
  To dry thy tears how longs the heav'nly muse!


  An HYMN to the MORNING

  ATTEND my lays, ye ever honour'd nine,
  Assist my labours, and my strains refine;
  In smoothest numbers pour the notes along,
  For bright Aurora now demands my song.
    Aurora hail, and all the thousand dies,
  Which deck thy progress through the vaulted skies:
  The morn awakes, and wide extends her rays,
  On ev'ry leaf the gentle zephyr plays;
  Harmonious lays the feather'd race resume,
  Dart the bright eye, and shake the painted plume.
    Ye shady groves, your verdant gloom display
  To shield your poet from the burning day:
  Calliope awake the sacred lyre,
  While thy fair sisters fan the pleasing fire:
  The bow'rs, the gales, the variegated skies
  In all their pleasures in my bosom rise.
    See in the east th' illustrious king of day!
  His rising radiance drives the shades away--
  But Oh! I feel his fervid beams too strong,
  And scarce begun, concludes th' abortive song.


  An HYMN to the EVENING.

  SOON as the sun forsook the eastern main
  The pealing thunder shook the heav'nly plain;
  Majestic grandeur!  From the zephyr's wing,
  Exhales the incense of the blooming spring.
  Soft purl the streams, the birds renew their notes,
  And through the air their mingled music floats.
    Through all the heav'ns what beauteous dies are spread!
  But the west glories in the deepest red:
  So may our breasts with ev'ry virtue glow,
  The living temples of our God below!
    Fill'd with the praise of him who gives the light,
  And draws the sable curtains of the night,
  Let placid slumbers sooth each weary mind,
  At morn to wake more heav'nly, more refin'd;
  So shall the labours of the day begin
  More pure, more guarded from the snares of sin.
    Night's leaden sceptre seals my drowsy eyes,
  Then cease, my song, till fair Aurora rise.


  ISAIAH lxiii. 1-8.

  SAY, heav'nly muse, what king or mighty God,
  That moves sublime from Idumea's road?
  In Bosrah's dies, with martial glories join'd,
  His purple vesture waves upon the wind.
  Why thus enrob'd delights he to appear
  In the dread image of the Pow'r of war?
    Compres'd in wrath the swelling wine-press groan'd,
  It bled, and pour'd the gushing purple round.
    "Mine was the act," th' Almighty Saviour said,
  And shook the dazzling glories of his head,
  "When all forsook I trod the press alone,
  "And conquer'd by omnipotence my own;
  "For man's release sustain'd the pond'rous load,
  "For man the wrath of an immortal God:
  "To execute th' Eternal's dread command
  "My soul I sacrific'd with willing hand;
  "Sinless I stood before the avenging frown,
  "Atoning thus for vices not my own."
    His eye the ample field of battle round
  Survey'd, but no created succours found;
  His own omnipotence sustain'd the right,
  His vengeance sunk the haughty foes in night;
  Beneath his feet the prostrate troops were spread,
  And round him lay the dying, and the dead.
    Great God, what light'ning flashes from thine eyes?
  What pow'r withstands if thou indignant rise?
    Against thy Zion though her foes may rage,
  And all their cunning, all their strength engage,
  Yet she serenely on thy bosom lies,
  Smiles at their arts, and all their force defies.


  On RECOLLECTION.

  MNEME begin.  Inspire, ye sacred nine,
  Your vent'rous Afric in her great design.
  Mneme, immortal pow'r, I trace thy spring:
  Assist my strains, while I thy glories sing:
  The acts of long departed years, by thee
  Recover'd, in due order rang'd we see:
  Thy pow'r the long-forgotten calls from night,
  That sweetly plays before the fancy's sight.
  Mneme in our nocturnal visions pours
  The ample treasure of her secret stores;
  Swift from above the wings her silent flight
  Through Phoebe's realms, fair regent of the night;
  And, in her pomp of images display'd,
  To the high-raptur'd poet gives her aid,
  Through the unbounded regions of the mind,
  Diffusing light celestial and refin'd.
  The heav'nly phantom paints the actions done
  By ev'ry tribe beneath the rolling sun.
    Mneme, enthron'd within the human breast,
  Has vice condemn'd, and ev'ry virtue blest.
  How sweet the sound when we her plaudit hear?
  Sweeter than music to the ravish'd ear,
  Sweeter than Maro's entertaining strains
  Resounding through the groves, and hills, and plains.
  But how is Mneme dreaded by the race,
  Who scorn her warnings and despise her grace?
  By her unveil'd each horrid crime appears,
  Her awful hand a cup of wormwood bears.
  Days, years mispent, O what a hell of woe!
  Hers the worst tortures that our souls can know.
    Now eighteen years their destin'd course have run,
  In fast succession round the central sun.
  How did the follies of that period pass
  Unnotic'd, but behold them writ in brass!
  In Recollection see them fresh return,
  And sure 'tis mine to be asham'd, and mourn.
    O Virtue, smiling in immortal green,
  Do thou exert thy pow'r, and change the scene;
  Be thine employ to guide my future days,
  And mine to pay the tribute of my praise.
    Of Recollection such the pow'r enthron'd
  In ev'ry breast, and thus her pow'r is own'd.
  The wretch, who dar'd the vengeance of the skies,
  At last awakes in horror and surprise,
  By her alarm'd, he sees impending fate,
  He howls in anguish, and repents too late.
  But O! what peace, what joys are hers t' impart
  To ev'ry holy, ev'ry upright heart!
  Thrice blest the man, who, in her sacred shrine,
  Feels himself shelter'd from the wrath divine!


  On IMAGINATION.

  THY various works, imperial queen, we see,
    How bright their forms! how deck'd with pomp
      by thee!
  Thy wond'rous acts in beauteous order stand,
  And all attest how potent is thine hand.
    From Helicon's refulgent heights attend,
  Ye sacred choir, and my attempts befriend:
  To tell her glories with a faithful tongue,
  Ye blooming graces, triumph in my song.
       Now here, now there, the roving Fancy flies,
  Till some lov'd object strikes her wand'ring eyes,
  Whose silken fetters all the senses bind,
  And soft captivity involves the mind.
    Imagination! who can sing thy force?
  Or who describe the swiftness of thy course?
  Soaring through air to find the bright abode,
  Th' empyreal palace of the thund'ring God,
  We on thy pinions can surpass the wind,
  And leave the rolling universe behind:
  From star to star the mental optics rove,
  Measure the skies, and range the realms above.
  There in one view we grasp the mighty whole,
  Or with new worlds amaze th' unbounded soul.
    Though Winter frowns to Fancy's raptur'd eyes
  The fields may flourish, and gay scenes arise;
  The frozen deeps may break their iron bands,
  And bid their waters murmur o'er the sands.
  Fair Flora may resume her fragrant reign,
  And with her flow'ry riches deck the plain;
  Sylvanus may diffuse his honours round,
  And all the forest may with leaves be crown'd:
  Show'rs may descend, and dews their gems disclose,
  And nectar sparkle on the blooming rose.
    Such is thy pow'r, nor are thine orders vain,
  O thou the leader of the mental train:
  In full perfection all thy works are wrought,
  And thine the sceptre o'er the realms of thought.
  Before thy throne the subject-passions bow,
  Of subject-passions sov'reign ruler thou;
  At thy command joy rushes on the heart,
  And through the glowing veins the spirits dart.
    Fancy might now her silken pinions try
  To rise from earth, and sweep th' expanse on high:
  From Tithon's bed now might Aurora rise,
  Her cheeks all glowing with celestial dies,
  While a pure stream of light o'erflows the skies.
  The monarch of the day I might behold,
  And all the mountains tipt with radiant gold,
  But I reluctant leave the pleasing views,
  Which Fancy dresses to delight the Muse;
  Winter austere forbids me to aspire,
  And northern tempests damp the rising fire;
  They chill the tides of Fancy's flowing sea,
  Cease then, my song, cease the unequal lay.


  Her mother was standing on the step,
      holding a basket in her hand.

  When she saw Ollie she said, "Ah, here you are;
  I have been looking for you all over
  the house."
  "I have been swinging, and only just
  heard you calling," answered Ollie.
  "Do you want me?"
  "Yes," said Mrs. Rogers; "I want some more
  sugar. I thought we had plenty, but these new
  cookies that Mrs. Coe told me about do
  take a great deal more than my old ones. So, go
  as quickly as you can, my dear, for I am
  dreadfully bothered for the want of it."
  [Illustration: Willie]
  "Yes," said Ollie, taking the basket; "I will not
  be a minute. Couldn't Willie go with me? See,
  he is looking through the window. I am sure
  a little walk would do him good."
  "No, not yet," said Mrs. Rogers. "The doctor
  says he must not leave the house before next
  week. Now run along."
  Ollie threw a kiss toward the window and
  started down the path. She was just going
  to open the gate when she heard a
  "rat-tat-tat" behind her.
    
  [Illustration: Ollie]
  "Willie wants something, I am sure," she
  said, turning back again; "I wonder what it
  is! He is pointing under that bush, but I do
  not see anything. Ah, here you are, you rogue!
  it is you who are wanted;" and she
  pulled out a great big black rabbit,
  Willie's especial pet. "It is just as
  well that I have to go to the house again,
  for I forgot my sun-umbrella, and I am sure the
    day is very hot."
  [Illustration: The pet rabbit]
  The sun-umbrella to which Ollie alluded was
  one of her birthday presents, and she was always
  glad when the sun was hot enough to make
  it useful. The rabbit being laid in Willie's
  lap, Ollie started off once more, running as
  fast as she could to make up for lost time. In a
    few minutes she reached the village. The sugar
  was soon bought and tucked away in the
  basket.

  

  Ollie ran along, and was just hesitating whether
  she should climb the fence and run through
  Squire Thompson's lot, or go around by
  the road, when she saw, just before her,
  Lucy Coit, walking along with her school-books
  in her bag.
  
  "There is Lucy," said Ollie; "I wonder what
  she is doing with her bag of books at this
  time of day. I will run up and ask her."

  [Illustration: Lucy]
    Ollie soon overtook her schoolmate, and
    putting her arm around her waist they walked on together.

  "I could not imagine what you were carrying
  your school-books for," said Ollie. "You
  can't have been kept after school, for you
  always know your lessons so well."
  "No," said Lucy, "I wasn't kept after, but
  I stayed myself. I couldn't get a sum in
  fractions right, and Miss Palmer said if I
  would wait till every one had gone she would show me about it. Now
I know it, and I am going down to the beach. Don't you want to go
too?"
"Oh, yes," said Ollie; "but I must take this sugar to mamma
first.
Let's climb over these bars and cut across this field. It is a great
deal shorter than by the road." 
[Illustration: Geese]
There were some geese in the field, which evidently did not like
to have their privacy intruded upon, for they set up a terrible
quacking as the children passed them. Ollie and Lucy, however,
quacked back again, and the geese soon left them and continued to
nibble away at the grass.Long lost to realms beneath the northern skies
  She shines supreme, while hated faction dies:
  Soon as appear'd the Goddess long desir'd,
  Sick at the view, she languish'd and expir'd;
  Thus from the splendors of the morning light
  The owl in sadness seeks the caves of night.
    No more, America, in mournful strain
  Of wrongs, and grievance unredress'd complain,
  No longer shalt thou dread the iron chain,
  Which wanton Tyranny with lawless hand
  Had made, and with it meant t' enslave the land.
    Should you, my lord, while you peruse my song,
  Wonder from whence my love of Freedom sprung,
  Whence flow these wishes for the common good,
  By feeling hearts alone best understood,
  I, young in life, by seeming cruel fate
  Was snatch'd from Afric's fancy'd happy seat:
  What pangs excruciating must molest,
  What sorrows labour in my parent's breast?
  Steel'd was that soul and by no misery mov'd
  That from a father seiz'd his babe belov'd:
  Such, such my case.  And can I then but pray
  Others may never feel tyrannic sway?
    For favours past, great Sir, our thanks are due,
  And thee we ask thy favours to renew,
  Since in thy pow'r, as in thy will before,
  To sooth the griefs, which thou did'st once deplore.
  May heav'nly grace the sacred sanction give
  To all thy works, and thou for ever live
  Not only on the wings of fleeting Fame,
  Though praise immortal crowns the patriot's name,
  But to conduct to heav'ns refulgent fane,
  May fiery coursers sweep th' ethereal plain,
  And bear thee upwards to that blest abode,
  Where, like the prophet, thou shalt find thy God.


  O D E   T O   N E P T U N E.

  On Mrs. W-----'s Voyage to England.

                 I.

  WHILE raging tempests shake the shore,
  While AElus' thunders round us roar,
  And sweep impetuous o'er the plain
  Be still, O tyrant of the main;
  Nor let thy brow contracted frowns betray,
  While my Susanna skims the wat'ry way.

                 II.

  The Pow'r propitious hears the lay,
  The blue-ey'd daughters of the sea
  With sweeter cadence glide along,
  And Thames responsive joins the song.
  Pleas'd with their notes Sol sheds benign his ray,
  And double radiance decks the face of day.

                 III.

  To court thee to Britannia's arms
    Serene the climes and mild the sky,
  Her region boasts unnumber'd charms,
    Thy welcome smiles in ev'ry eye.
  Thy promise, Neptune keep, record my pray'r,
  Not give my wishes to the empty air.

    Boston, October 12, 1772.


  To a LADY on her coming to North-America
    with her Son, for the Recovery of her Health.

