'Yes,' replied Squanto readily--for he desired the removal of the dog
from that spot, for other reasons beside the gratification of
Maitland's feelings--' Yes; we will carry him away, and hide him from
Coubitant’s eyes. Doubtless he will return here, as soon as all is
quiet, to see the success of his murderous attempt; and when he finds
the path thus stained with blood, he will be satisfied, and pursue us
no further than to see whether we bury our dead companion in the
forest, or bear him to his home. We must, therefore, carry Fingal all
the way to New Plymouth, lest he should follow on our trail, and
discover that he has only slain a dog.’

Rodolph's English companions concurred in this view, and willingly lent
their aid to convey the body of Fingal from the place of his death. A
couple of poles were cut hastily, and a rude light litter was formed;
for Squanto wished that Coubitant should find traces of such
preparations, as they would help to convince him that they had thus
borne away the wounded or dead form of the ambassador.

'Now,' said he, when all was ready, 'not another moment must be lost.
Even now the keen eye of the foe may be upon us, and our stratagem may
be in vain. Two of you must bear the litter, and must carefully place
your feet in the same spot, so as to form but one track; and lead our
pursuers to believe that only three men have passed along. And there,
throw that bloody handkerchief on the path, and Coubitant will take it
as a trophy of success. "May good betide us," said the South-lander--"Is
this you, Robin M'Combich, or your wraith?"
"It is Robin Oig M'Combich," answered the Highlander, "and it is not.

--But never mind that, give me pack my dirk, Hugh Morrison, or there
will be words petween us."
"There it is for you then, since less wunna serve."
"Cot speed you, Hughie, and send you good marcats. Ye winna meet with
Robin Oig again either at tryste or fair."
So saying, he shook hastily the hand of his acquaintance, and set
out in the direction from which he had advanced.This cunning device
he practiced again and again until they had passed through the wood,
and entered the grassy meadow, where such precautions were no longer
needed. Then the party quickened their steps, and paused not again
until they had struck deeply into the forest that succeeded to the
undulating reach of meadowland.

The way seemed long to Rodolph. He desired to reach his cherished home;
and yet he dreaded to return and sadden the heart of his little Edith
with the story of Fingal's death, and the sight of the inanimate form
of her last and much-loved playfellow. Had it not been for this
catastrophe, he would have kept from his wife and child the knowledge
of the cruel attempt that had been made on his life as such knowledge
could only distress them, and cause them needless anxiety and alarm in
future. But the death of Fingal must be accounted for; and, let the
consequence be what it might, it must be accounted for truly, and
without prevarication.  Therefore it was that Rodolph dreaded meeting
those whose presence was the joy and the sunlight of his life.

He reached his home, and silently entered his blooming garden; and,
with Squanto's assistance, laid the body of Fingal, now cold and stiff,
beneath the venerable tree that shaded Edith's bower. Then he entered
his dwelling, and found its inmates busily employed at their usual
domestic occupations, and overjoyed at his sudden and unexpected
arrival. But, in spite of his own pleasure, a shade of sadness and
anxiety was on his brow, which he could not hide from the quick eye of
Helen; and she eagerly inquired the cause.

Sadly Rodolph told his story; and joy and deep gratitude for the
preservation of her beloved husband so filled and engrossed the heart
of Helen, as, for a time, to overpower every feeling of regret for the
loss of the faithful animal, who seemed to have been providentially
directed to accompany his master, and save his life at the sacrifice of
his own.

But Edith keenly felt the loss she had sustained.  She was thankful--
very thankful--that her father had been restored to their home in
safety; but she did not the less deplore the death of her dear
companion: and, unable to restrain her tears, she hurried from the
house, and ran to hide her grief in her lonely bower. For some time her
parents did not perceive her absence, for they were occupied with their
own feelings of pious gratitude; but presently Rodolph remarked that
she had left the room, and remembered where he had deposited the body
of her favorite. He rose, and went towards the spot, accompanied by
Helen; and tears of sorrowful sympathy arose in the eyes of both, as
they beheld the desolate child lying on the ground by Fingal’s side,
with her arms around his neck, and her long waving hair hanging over
his inanimate face, that had never before met her gaze without an
answering look of intelligence and affection.

Gently they raised her, and spoke to her words of love and comfort; but
she long refused to be comforted. And though, at length, she became
calm and resigned, and never was heard to utter one murmur at this
fresh stroke of sorrow, yet her pensive sadness became more confirmed,
and plainly showed that she mourned for Fingal, not only as her lost
companion, but also as a connecting link between her own heart and the
memory of her lamented brother. Poor Edith! her early life was one of
trial and disappointment; but ‘it was good for her to be afflicted.'


CHAPTER  XIV.

'O Christian warriors! wherefore did you thus
Forget the precepts of your Lord and Chief,
And lend yourselves to deeds of guilt and blood!
Did ye not know--or, knowing, did not heed--
Those solemn words of His, when death was nigh,
And He bequeathed a _legacy of "peace"_
To His disciples? “They that take the sword
Shall perish with the sword.” O, well it were
If ye who left your native land, and sought
A desert for the liberty of faith,
Had acted more according to that faith,
And sought to win the souls you rashly sent
To meet their God and yours!'	ANON.

Yes, well, indeed, lied it been if the settlers had been able and
willing to preserve, unbroken, the friendly relations with the Indians,
which, after the first natural distrust felt by the natives towards the
white strangers had subsided, they were, in several instances, able to
establish. But such was not the case. They received many provocations
from the natives, even from those who professed to be most friendly
towards them, and also from the settlers who followed them from the
mother-country; and they did not always meet these provocations in the
truly Christian spirit which, it must be allowed, generally pervaded
their councils, and actuated their public and private proceedings with
the wild tribes by whom they were surrounded.

Even Masasoyt--their friend and ally--was about this time nearly
estranged from them, and on the point of joining the Narragansetts in a
project for their destruction. This change in his sentiments was the
result of the machinations of Coubitant, assisted by the foolish
pretensions and love of interference which rendered Squanto almost as
dangerous as he was useful to his employers. His boasting tales about
the power of the English settlers to imprison and to let loose the
desolating plague at their will and pleasure, had been told to the
Sagamore of the Wampanoges, as well as to Coubitant and Miantonomo; and
suspicions had arisen in the breast of Masasoyt, which he vainly strove
to infuse into his more enlightened and trustworthy son, Mooanam.
Nothing that his father could say had any effect in weakening the
friendship entertained by the young Sachem, and his brother Quadequina,
towards the emigrants; and it was owing to this steady friendship that
they were made acquainted with the altered feelings of the Sagamore in
time to prevent their ripening into open hostility.

Mooanam communicated to the President the doubts and suspicions that
had taken possession of his father's mind, and advised him immediately
to send the faithful and devoted Hobomak to Packanokick, to endeavor to
remove the evil impression, and restore his confidence in the Pilgrim
Fathers. He also convinced both Bradford and his council that the
conspiracy which Squanto had represented as already formed, and only
waiting the concurrence of Masasoyt to be carried into deadly effect,
was as yet in its infancy, and might, by judicious management, be
altogether broken up.  The Pokanokit interpreter had greatly
exaggerated, in his report to the Governor, all that he had heard from
Coubitant while at the Narragansett village; and had persuaded him, in
spite of the opinion expressed by Rodolph, to believe not only that he
and his people had been cursed by the Powows, but also that the tribes
to which these satanic conjurors belonged were uniting for the common
purpose of attacking and destroying the British settlement.

All this was done by Squanto, with no serious intention of injuring his
new friends, but from a vain desire to make himself important, and show
the extent of his knowledge and sagacity. His vanity was, however, very
near proving fatal to him: for when the trusty Hobomak had explained to
the Sagamore the real motives and intentions of the settlers towards
the natives, and had convinced him that all the strange and mysterious
stories that Squanto delighted to tell were either pure inventions or
gross exaggerations, a second change was effected in the old Chief's
feelings, and he sent to demand that the faithless interpreter should
be immediately delivered up to him.

The Governor was extremely reluctant to comply with this demand, as he
well knew how cruel and how summary were the judgements of the native
Chiefs; and he, as well as the whole of the colony, felt a regard for
Squanto, notwithstanding his folly and his errors. Nevertheless, the
Pokanokit was a subject of the Sagamore, who had made an express
stipulation in his treaty with the settlers that any of his people, who
might take up their abode in the colony, should be given up to him
whenever he required it; and therefore Bradford felt himself compelled
to abandon Squanto to his fate.

The messengers who accompanied Hobomak on his return to New Plymouth
were loaded with a quantity of valuable beaver-skins, which they laid
in a pile at the Governor's feet, as a bribe to induce him to comply
with Masasoyt's demand.  These the Governor rejected with indignant
scorn, observing that no man's life could be purchased from the
English; and that if he resigned the interpreter into the power of his
native sovereign, it was only because truth and justice required it,
and not from any base motives either of fear or advantage.

Then the messengers approached the wretched man, who stood calmly
awaiting the decision of the Governor; and he saw one of them draw from
his belt the knife that Masasoyt had commanded him to plunge into the
culprit's heart.  But Squanto did not tremble. All the native
fortitude, so characteristic of his race, was manifested in this awful
moment; and the bystanders felt a respect for the Pokanokit that he had
never before inspired.

Gladly would each individual have interposed to save him; and
breathlessly they watched the movements of the President, whose signal
was to fix the moment of Squanto's death. Bradford hesitated: the word
trembled on his lips, when suddenly looking towards the sea from the
summit of ‘the Burying Hill,' on which the assembly stood, he espied a
shallop bounding over the waves, and advancing directly towards the
shore beneath.

He made this a pretext--certainly, not a very well grounded one—for
delaying the execution of Squanto's sentence; and declared that he
would not give the fatal signal until he had ascertained the object and
the contents of the approaching vessel. This faltering on the part of
the Governor excited great wrath in the messengers of Masasoyt; and,
without any farther parley, they took up their beaver skins, and
departed to their home. Squanto's forfeited life was thus
providentially spared; and the conduct of Bradford was, through
Mooanam's good offices, overlooked b the Sagamore. But that life was
not greatly prolonged.   Very soon after this event he was seized with
I virulent fever, while on a short journey with the Governor, and, in
spite of all the care and attention that were bestowed on him, he died,
much regretted by the whole colony.

The boat, whose seasonable approach had been the means of arresting the
fatal stroke, was found to have been sent from some English fishing
vessels, many of which now constantly frequented the shores of New
England. It conveyed to the colony an addition of several able-bodied
men, who were joyfully welcomed by the settlers, as laborers were just
then much wanted, both in the fields and in the increasing town. These
men were sent out by an English merchant named Weston, who had long
endeavored to encourage the colonization of New England; but from very
different motives to those which had actuated the Pilgrim Fathers, and
led them to forsake the comforts of a European home for the toils and
uncertainties of an American wilderness. A desire for profit appears to
have been the ruling principle in Weston's mind. He was, therefore,
very indifferent as to the moral character of the men whom he sent out
to join the emigrants, and was only solicitous to secure a quick return
of the money that he had expended: and, finding that the prospect of
gain from a connection with the New Plymouthers was doubtful and tardy,
he had resolved to found a colony himself.

For this purpose he had, some time previously, obtained a grant of a
portion of land in Massachusetts, and sent over sixty men to cultivate
it, in two ships, which he placed under the command of his brother-in-
law. The arrival of this fresh band of emigrants had proved a fruitful
source of trouble and annoyance to the first settlers, for they were
chiefly idle and profligate vagabonds, who had no settled occupation at
home, and no characters to sustain. Weston himself described them in a
letter to Bradford, as 'tolerably rude and profane.' And a friend of
the Pilgrims wrote from England to warn them against having any
connection with the new colony: and recommended them to have it
distinctly explained to the Indians, that they were a new and
independent society, for whose conduct and good faith they could in no
way be responsible.

Notwithstanding all these warnings, and the very unprepossessing
appearance of the new emigrants, the Plymouthers had shown more
kindness and hospitality than they had prudence and caution: and had
received their countrymen into their own settlement on their arrival in
America.  They had even permitted on half of their number to reside at
New Plymouth during the whole summer, while the strongest and
healthiest had proceeded to Massachusetts to fix on a spot for their
settlement, and prepare habitations. They had decided on a place called
Wessagussett,[*] a little to the south of Boston; and thither they were
afterwards followed by their companions from New Plymouth. The long
residence of these men among the pious and high-minded Pilgrims had
not, however, made any salutary impression on their minds: and all the
kindness and hospitality they had received were most ungratefully
forgotten.

[Footnote: New Weymouth]

In various ways the new colony vexed and annoyed the men of Plymouth;
but in no way more seriously than by their conduct towards the natives,
which was so different to the just and upright dealings of the
Pilgrims, that the Indians began to lose their confidence in the white
men, and to suspect deceit and imposition where hitherto they had only
found truth and justice. Weston's colony was, indeed, scarcely settled
at Wessagussett, before complaints were sent by the Indians to their
friends at Plymouth, of the repeated depredations that were committed
by the new settlers, who were continually carrying off their stores of
corn, and other property: and these accusations were by no means
surprising to Bradford and his council, as they had already detected
them in many acts of theft during their stay at New Plymouth.

The harvest of this year was poor and scanty; and the great accession
to their numbers, caused by the visit of Weston's settlers, had
entirely consumed the stores of the Plymouthers, and reduced them again
to actual want. Joyfully, therefore, they hailed the arrival of two
ships from the mother country, laden with knives, beads, and various
other articles, that would be acceptable to the Indians in the way of
barter, and enable the settlers to purchase from them the necessary
supply of provisions, for which they had hitherto been compelled to pay
very dear in skins and furs. Meanwhile, the colony of Wessagussett was
	in a still worse condition. They had quickly consumed all the food with
which the generous Plymouthers had supplied them, and had then stolen
everything on which they could lay their hands. They had also sold
almost all their clothes and bedding, and even their weapons; and were
brought to such extreme necessity that they did not refuse to do the
meanest services for the Indians who dwelt near their settlement, in
return for such means of subsistence as the red men were able to
furnish them with.  The EDITOR of the MIRROR will be happy to substantiate
this fact to such as may be disposed to doubt its authenticity:--"if
it be madness, there's method in it."
* * * * *

SIGNS OF THE TIMES.

Seventeen hundred individuals a year, for the last seven years, have
been committed for poaching.--_Report Prison Discip. Society_.

Crime is a curse only to the period in which it is successful; but
virtue, whether fortunate or otherwise, blesses not only its own
age, but remotest posterity, and is as beneficial by its example,
as by its immediate effects.

At the late Doncaster races, there were 30,000 persons well
clothed, and apparently well fed and happy. 2000l. were taken at the
grand stand for admission.

Mr. Kean is to receive, during the present season, _fifty pounds_ for
each night's performance--the yearly income of a curate!

Singing _Non Nobis Domine_ after dinner is a very foolish custom.

People in England pay 10,000l. a year for _non nobis_. Rather sing
Dr.
Kitchener's Universal Prayer and the English grace. The common people of
every country understand only their native tongue; therefore if
you do not understand them, you will not understand each other. All
Italian music is detestable, and nothing like our genuine native song.
Weber's "unconcatenated chords" ought not to be listened to, while
we have such composers as Braham and Tom Cooke. The _national songs
of Great Britain_ have not sold so well as the _Cook's Oracle_.
"People like what goes into the mouth better than what comes out of
it."--_Dr. Kitchener_.

A museum, deanery, and a cattle-market are building at York. Various other
improvements and repairs are also in progress in that city!

According to the Report of the Commissioners of Public Charities,
the _annual_ sum of 972,396l. has been bequeathed by pious donors to
_England only_! This is surely the promised land of benevolence; but
in Salop only, there are arrears now due to the poor for upwards of
42 years!

M. La Combe, in his _Picture of London_, advises those who do not wish
to be robbed to carry a brace of blunderbusses, and to put the muzzle
of one out of each window, so as to be seen by the robbers.

The silly habit of praising every thing at a man's table came in for a
share of the late Dr. Kitchener's severity. He said, "Criticism, sir,
is not a pastime; it is a verdict on oath: the man who does it is
(morally) sworn to perform his duty.

There is but one character on earth, sir," he would add, "that I detest;
and that is the man who praises, indiscriminately, every dish that is
set before him. Once I find a fellow do that at my table, and, if he
were my brother, I never ask him to dinner again."
A _daily_ literary journal has lately been started in Paris, and has,
in less than three weeks, above 2,000 subscribers.

_Reviewing_, as a profession by which a certain class of men seek to
instruct the public, and to support themselves creditably in the middle
order, and to keep their children from falling, after the decease of
enlightened parents, on the parish, is at the lowest possible ebb
in this country; and many is the once well-fed critic now an
hungered--_Blackwood_.
_Oranges_.--It is not perhaps generally known or suspected, that
the rabbis of the London synagogues are in the habit of affording
both employment and maintenance to the poor of their own persuasion,
by supplying them with oranges at an almost nominal price.--Ibid.
_Noble Authors_.--The poor spinsters of the Minerva press can
scarcely support life by their labours, so completely are they
driven out of the market by the Lady Charlottes and the Lady Bettys;
and a rhyming peer is as common as a Birmingham button. It would
take ten Horace Walpoles at least to do justice to the living authors
of the red book.
_Buying Books_.--Money is universally allowed to be the thing which
all men love best; and if a man buys a book, we may safely infer
he thinks well of it. What nobody buys, then, we may justly conclude
is not worth readingAll the superstitious fears of the ignorant natives
were thus aroused, and if there were any in the assembly who were too
well acquainted with the white men to credit all that Coubitant
asserted, they thought it either unsafe or unwise to express their
opinions any further.

Happily for the settlers, one such faithful and friendly spirit was
there to watch for their interests, and provide for their preservation.
Masasoyt had resumed all his kindly feelings towards his English
allies, since the misunderstanding occasioned by Squanto's meddling
propensities had been explained away by the trusty Hobomak. He had also
recently been visited by Edward Winslow, when he was afflicted with a
severe illness, and the Christian soldier had ministered to his relief
in a way that had excited both the wonder and the lively gratitude of
the Sagamore. When, therefore, he obeyed the summons of Coubitant to
join the general council of Chiefs, he had no intention of consenting
to any hostile measures being undertaken against his powerful and
beneficent friends. Weston's wild and disorderly crew had excited his
anger in common with that of all the other neighboring Sachems; and he
was quite willing to combine with his red brethren for their
chastisement--perhaps, even for their utter destruction: but he did not
confound the Pilgrim Fathers, who had never failed in truth and
honesty, with the deceitful and marauding vagabonds who wore white
faces, and called themselves Christian subjects of King James, while
they acted like heathen savages.

At first, Masasoyt met the malignant arguments and false assertions of
Coubitant with an open and generous statement of the upright conduct of
the strangers towards himself and his tribe, during the three years of
their residence in New England; and urged the assembled Chiefs to
beware how they attempted to molest men whose power to resist and
punish any such attempt was only equaled by their willingness and
ability to benefit those who treated them with confidence and
integrity. But he soon perceived that his arguments in favor of mercy
and justice were powerless, when opposed to the fierce and crafty
harangues of Coubitant; and he, therefore, forbore to make any further
reply, and even appeared to acquiesce in the decision of the council,
that the only means of securing the safety and independence of the
Indian tribes was utterly to exterminate the invaders.

The proposed plan for accomplishing this barbarous project, was first
to surround and fall on the miserable and sickly colony of
Wessagussett; and then, before the news of the massacre could reach New
Plymouth, to hasten thither, and wreak on its unsuspecting and
unprepared inhabitants the same fierce vengeance.

The day and hour were fixed, and every necessary preliminary was
minutely arranged; and then the council broke up, and the Chiefs
returned to their respective dwellings, to collect and fully arm their
followers, and prepare to meet again at the appointed time and place,
with both hands and hearts read to execute the bloody deed.

Masasoyt retired like the rest; and, attended by the little band of
warriors who formed his bodyguard, be took the forest path that led to
his dwelling at Packanokick. But he did not long pursue that path. When
he had proceeded such a distance through the forest as to feel sure
that he should not, by turning to the right, cross the route of any of
the other Chiefs, he dismissed all his followers, except two of the
most trusty and confidential. The rest he desired to proceed
immediately to Packanokick, and inform his people that they must
prepare for a warlike expedition, and that he was going to visit his
son, Mooanam, in order to give him directions to join in the enterprise
with that portion of the tribe that was under his authority.

This was very far from being the truth; but the Indian Sagamore
considered that every falsehood and stratagem was allowable, and even
meritorious, that could further a desired object, especially if that
object was so undoubtedly good in itself as that which now engrossed
his thoughts and wishes. He did not know that it is sin to ‘do evil
that good may come’; and therefore we must judge him by his generous
motives, and not by his heathen practice.

Having thus freed himself from those on whose discretion and fidelity
he could not fully rely, he changed his course, and traveled straight
towards New Plymouth. There was no beaten track through the tangled
woods in that direction; but the position of the sun, and the
appearance of the trees, were sufficient guides for the sagacious
Indian Chief, and, in spite of his advanced age, he pursued his way
with vigor and activity. Frequently his path was obstructed by the
luxuriant growth of underwood, or by the cable-like creepers that hung
in every direction, crossing each other like the rigging of a ship, and
presenting obstacles that nothing but the tomahawks that hung from the
girdles of the natives enabled them to overcome.  With these weapons--
ever ready, in the hand of an Indian, either to cut his way through the
forest, to fell the timbers for his wigwam or his canoe, to slay the
game that his arrows have brought to the ground, or to cleave the skull
of his enemy--did old Masasoyt and his devoted followers divide the
large tough climbing plants that obstructed their passage. Sometimes,
also, when the sun was totally obscured and the necessary windings in
their course would hive rendered them uncertain whether they were
following the right direction, these useful tomahawks enabled them to
consult the Indian compass.

The manner in which these children of the wilderness supply to
themselves the want of that invaluable instrument is both curious and
ingenious, and it proved of essential use to the Wampanoge Chief on
this occasion. Whenever he found himself at fault from the absence of
the sun, or any other direct indication of the proper course, he raised
his battle-axe, and struck a heavy blow at some neighboring pine or
birch tree, on each side of which he cut a deep notch, and then, by
examining the grain of the wood, he could tell which was the north, and
which the south side--the former being easily ascertained by the
greater closeness of the concentric rings, and consequent hardness of
the fiber. The sap being more drawn to the south side by the action of
the sun, causes the rings on that side to swell more; and this
operation of nature has been observed by nature's children, and
employed by them as a sure guide in their long wanderings through the
pathless forests where they find a home.

The journey to New Plymouth was rather a long one; but the Sagamore and
his companions were each provided with a small quantity of their usual
travelling food, _nokake_--or meal made of parched maize--which they
carried, in true Indian fashion, in their hollow leathern girdles. When
they came to a pond, or brook, they paused to eat a few handsful of
this simple provision, which is so dry that it can only be swallowed
when either water or snow is at hand, ready to wash down each mouthful;
and, consequently, in summer the natives have sometimes to travel long
distances before they can avail themselves of the food that is already
in their hands.

Immediately on his arrival at New Plymouth, the Sagamore repaired to
the dwelling of Bradford; and, requesting a private interview--at which
no one was allowed to be present except the Wampanoge interpreter
Hobomak--he informed him of the conspiracy of the natives, and warned
him to be well prepared for the intended attack. Could he have given
this warning, and ensured the safety of his allies, without betraying
the whole of the conspirators' projects, he would gladly have done so;
for he both despised and hated the men of Wessagussett, and he was
willing that they should he treated as they seemed disposed to treat
such of his race as they could get into their power. He even made an
attempt to persuade Bradford to leave them to the fate they so well
deserved, and to connive at their destruction, which would remove an
increasing evil from the first colony.

But the President soon convinced him that such a course would be
altogether at variance with the precepts and principles of that
religion in which he gloried, and which it was his chief aim, and that
of all his Christian brethren, to exalt and make honorable in the eyes
of the natives: and that, therefore, no selfish considerations could
induce them to abandon their countrymen to destruction, notwithstanding
their ingratitude towards themselves, and their ill conduct towards the
Indians.

With this decision Masasoyt was extremely dissatisfied: but he could
not now withdraw the information he had imparted, even if he desired
it; and he also felt it to be most politic to secure the friendship of
the white men, even if it should involve the sacrifice of the lives of
some of his own countrymen, and interfere with their projects of
vengeance on their foes. This was most likely to be the case in the
present instance; for the Governor was excited to great indignation by
the intelligence f this second conspiracy, in which several of the
Chiefs who had signed the treaty with Captain Standish were concerned;
and he immediately summoned the gallant soldier, and the rest of his
council, to deliberate on the best means of defeating it.

It now only wanted three days of the time appointed for the gathering
of the red warriors, and the attack on Wessagussett. .

* * * * *
"The law says to the subjects, with a voice only inferior to that of
the Deity, 'Vengeance is mine.' The instant that there is time for passion
to cool, and reason to interpose, an injured party must become aware,
that the law assumes the exclusive cognizance of the right and wrong
betwixt the parties, and opposes her inviolable buckler to every
attempt of the private party to right himself. I repeat, that this
unhappy man ought personally to be the object rather of our pity than
our abhorrence, for he failed in his ignorance, and from mistaken
notions of honour. But his crime is not the less that of murder,
gentlemen, and, in your high and important office, it is your duty
so to find.A great part of the night was, accordingly, spent in prayer; and the
blessing of the God of truth and mercy was solemnly asked upon an
enterprise that the leaders well knew was about to be carried out by
fraud and cruelty.

At sunrise, the soldiers met on 'the Burying Hill,' and the staff of
office was given, with much solemnity, to Captain Standish, by the
pious and venerable Brewster. They had already taken leave of their
wives and families, who did not altogether share the cheerful
exultation displayed by the Puritan warriors; and who were not
permitted to be present at this final ceremony, lest their anxious
fears should disturb the composure of their husbands and fathers.
Notwithstanding this characteristic prohibition, Helen, and her younger
daughter Edith, had ventured to station themselves in the path that led
down 'the Burying Hill,' in the direction in which Standish and his men
were to march, that they might take one more farewell of Rodolph before
he left them on an expedition which, to their minds, seemed fraught
with danger and uncertainty; and where they feared he might again be
exposed to the vengeance of his untiring foe.

The gallant little band marched down the hill, and came where Edith and
her child stood waiting, beneath a tree, for what might be their last
look on one most dearly loved; and when Rodolph saw them he forgot the
strictness of discipline and order required by his commander, and left
the ranks to indulge the feelings of his heart, by again embracing his
weeping wife and child.

The stern captain instantly recalled him; and when he saw a tear
glistening in the eye of the husband and father, a slight expression of
wonder and contempt passed over his countenance. He marveled that so
brave a soldier and so strict a Puritan as Rodolph Maitland should
still remain subject to so much worldly weakness. But Standish was not,
at that time, a married man; and he was very deeply imbued with all the
severe and unbending principles of his sect, which even went so far as
to demand the suppression of all natural feelings--making it a fault
for a mother to kiss her children on the Lord's day--and inflicting
actual punishment on the captain of a ship for having embraced his wife
on 5 Sunday, when, after a long separation, she hurried to meet him, as
he landed from the vessel! To such puerile littlenesses will even great
minds descend.

Rodolph was unmoved by the commander's contemptuous glance. He knew his
own unflinching Puritan principles, and his own undaunted courage; and
he knew his value in the eyes of Standish. The captain knew it also,
for he never liked to go on any enterprise that required bravery and
cool judgement without securing the aid of Maitland; and although the
tenderness of his friend's feelings, and the warmth of his domestic
attachments--so different to the coolness and apathy which was so
prevalent in the community--were a continual subject of surprise and
pity to the iron-hearted leader, yet he highly respected him, and even
loved him, as much as such a gentle feeling as love of any kind could
find admittance to his breast.

