"Nonsense, man. The idea of your being in a hurry, when everybody knows
that a doctor can never tell how long he may be kept in a sick-room!
But come now, tell the truth; put yourself in my condition, and do you
mean to say you'd be very anxious that Anty should recover?--Would
you like your own sister to rise from her death-bed to rob you of
everything you have? For, by Heaven! it is robbery--nothing less. She's
so stiff-necked, that there's no making any arrangement with her. I've
tried everything, fair means and foul, and nothing'll do but she must
go and marry that low young Kelly--so immeasurably beneath her, you
know, and of course only scheming for her money. Put yourself in my
place, I say; and tell me fairly what your own wishes would be?"

"I was always fond of my brothers and sisters," answered the doctor;
"and we couldn't well rob each other, for none of us had a penny to
lose."

"That's a different thing, but just supposing you were exactly in my
shoes at this moment, do you mean to tell me that you'd be glad she
should get well?--that you'd be glad she should be able to deprive you
of your property, disgrace your family, drive you from your own home,
and make your life miserable for ever after?"

"Upon my soul I can't say; but good night now, you're getting excited,
and I've finished my drop of punch."

"Ah! nonsense, man, sit down. I've something in earnest I want to say
to you," and Barry got up and prevented the doctor from leaving the
room. Colligan had gone so far as to put on his hat and great coat, and
now sat down again without taking them off.

"You and I, Colligan, are men of the world, and too wide awake for all
the old woman's nonsense people talk. What can I, or what could you in
my place, care for a half-cracked old maid like Anty, who's better dead
than alive, for her own sake and everybody's else; unless it is some
scheming ruffian like young Kelly there, who wants to make money by
her?"

"I'm not asking you to care for her; only, if those are your ideas,
it's as well not to talk about them for appearance sake."

"Appearance sake! There's nothing makes me so sick, as for two men like
you and me, who know what's what, to be talking about appearance sake,
like two confounded parsons, whose business it is to humbug everybody,
and themselves into the bargain. I'll tell you what: had my father--bad
luck to him for an old rogue--not made such a will as he did, I'd 've
treated Anty as well as any parson of 'em all would treat an old maid
of a sister; but I'm not going to have her put over my head this way.
Come, doctor, confound all humbug. I say it openly to you--to please
me, Anty must never come out of that bed alive."

"As if your wishes could make any difference. If it is to be so, she'll
die, poor creature, without your saying so much about it; but may-be,
and it's very likely too, she'll be alive and strong, after the two of
us are under the sod."

"Well; if it must be so, it must; but what I wanted to say to you is
this: while you were away, I was thinking about what you said of the
farm--of being a tenant of mine, you know."

"We can talk about that another time," said the doctor, who began to
feel an excessive wish to be out of the house.

"There's no time like the present, when I've got it in my mind; and, if
you'll wait, I can settle it all for you to-night. I was telling you
that I hate farming, and so I do. There are thirty or five-and-thirty
acres of land about the house, and lying round to the back of the town;
you shall take them off my hands, and welcome."

This was too good an offer to be resisted, and Colligan said he would
take the land, with many thanks, if the rent any way suited him.

"We'll not quarrel about that, you may be sure, Colligan," continued
Barry; "and as I said fifty acres at first--it was fifty acres I think
you were saying you wished for--I'll not baulk you, and go back from my
own word."

"What you have yourself, round the house, 'll be enough; only I'm
thinking the rent 'll be too high."

"It shall not; it shall be low enough; and, as I was saying, you shall
have the remainder, at the same price, immediately after Michaelmas, as
soon as ever those devils are ejected."

"Well;" said Colligan, who was now really interested, "what's the
figure?"

Duke of York," &c. This description raises one's curiosity greatly,
and query, has this tapestry been elsewhere described? At the meeting
of the Archæological Association at Warwick in 1847, it was supposed
to have come from St. Mary's Hall, Coventry; but that idea seems to
have arisen merely from its similarity of design to the tapestry which
is now there.

N.

* * * * *
ORIGIN OF EPITHET "FACTOTUM."

Sir,--The following expression in Cavendish's _Life of Wolsey_, p.
42.--"He was {44} Dominus fac totum with the king"--seems to point us to
some ecclesiastical origin for the derivation of our familiar word
"factotum."

Does any one know the precise whereabouts of such a phrase in the Ancient
Service books?

C.F.S.

* * * * *
INSCRIPTION ON ANCIENT ALMS-BASINS.

Mr.

Editor,--In the parish church in which I officiate are preserved four
ancient and curious alms-basins, of latten; They appear to be of
Flemish workmanship, and, from inventories of the church goods,
made at different times, we may gather that they were given for
their present use during the seventeenth century.

They represent:--1. The Martyrdom of St. Sebastian; 2. The Annunciation
of the Blessed Virgin; 3. The Temptation in Eden; and 4. The Spies
bearing the Grapes.

Around each of these subjects is a legend in foreign characters,
"DER.

INFRID. GEHWART." I have submitted this inscription to antiquaries
and German scholars in vain; it still remains a puzzle. It has been
suggested that it may have been only an arbitrary mark of the maker.

Is this probable? If not, will you, or one of your readers, give the
interpretation to
CLERICUS?

Nov. 8, 1849.

[We have much pleasure in inserting the foregoing QUERY, and trust that
many of our correspondents will follow the example of _Clericus_, by
furnishing us with copies of the inscriptions on any ancient church
plate in their possession, or which may come under their notice. A
comparison of examples will often serve to remove such difficulties
as the present, which perhaps may be read DERIN FRID GEHWART, "Therein
Peace approved;" _Gewären_ being used in the sense of _Bewähren_,
authority for which may be found in Wackernagel.]
* * * * *

NOTES OF BOOK SALES--CATALOGUES, ETC.

It is our purpose from time to time to call the attention of our
book-buying friends to the approaching sales of any collections
which may seem to us to deserve their attention; and to any catalogues
which may reach us containing books of great rarity and curiosity.
Had we entertained no such intention we should have shown our respect
for the memory of that intelligent, obliging, and honourable member
of the bookselling profession (to whom a literary man rarely addressed
a QUERY, without receiving in reply a NOTE of information worth
preserving), the late Mr. Thomas Rodd, by announcing that the sale
of the first portion of his extensive and valuable stock of books
will commence on Monday next, the 19th instant, and occupy the
remainder of that week.
The following Lots are among the specimens of the rarities contained
in this portion of Mr.--If I go and
swear an information before a magistrate there'll be nothing but my
word and his. Besides, he said nothing that the law could take hold of.
And yet I oughtn't to let it pass: at any rate I'll sleep on it." And
so he did; but it was not for a long time, for the recollection of
Barry's hideous proposal kept him awake.

Barry lay sprawling among the chairs till the sound of the hall door
closing told him that his guest had gone, when he slowly picked himself
up, and sat down upon the sofa. Colligan's last words were ringing
in his ear--"If you're found in Ireland the next day, I'll hang
you."--Hang him!--and had he really given any one the power to speak to
him in such language as that? After all, what had he said?--He had not
even whispered a word of murder; he had only made an offer of what he
would do if Anty should die: besides, no one but themselves had heard
even that; and then his thoughts went off to another train. "Who'd have
thought," he said to himself, "the man was such a fool! He meant it, at
first, as well as I did myself. I'm sure he did. He'd never have caught
as he did about the farm else, only he got afraid--the confounded fool!
As for hanging, I'll let him know; it's just as easy for me to tell
a story, I suppose, as it is for him." And then Barry, too, dragged
himself up to bed, and cursed himself to sleep. His waking thoughts,
however, were miserable enough.


XXVIII.  FANNY WYNDHAM REBELS


We will now return to Grey Abbey, Lord Cashel, and that unhappy
love-sick heiress, his ward, Fanny Wyndham. Affairs there had taken
no turn to give increased comfort either to the earl or to his niece,
during the month which succeeded the news of young Harry Wyndham's
death.

The former still adhered, with fixed pertinacity of purpose, to the
matrimonial arrangement which he had made with his son. Circumstances,
indeed, rendered it even much more necessary in the earl's eyes than it
had appeared to be when he first contemplated this scheme for releasing
himself from his son's pecuniary difficulties. He had, as the reader
will remember, advanced a very large sum of money to Lord Kilcullen,
to be repaid out of Fanny Wyndham's fortune, This money Lord Kilcullen
had certainly appropriated in the manner intended by his father, but
it had anything but the effect of quieting the creditors. The payments
were sufficiently large to make the whole hungry crew hear that his
lordship was paying his debts, but not at all sufficient to satisfy
their craving. Indeed, nearly the whole went in liquidation of turf
engagements, and gambling debts. The Jews, money-lenders, and tradesmen
merely heard that money was going from Lord Kilcullen's pocket; but
with all their exertions they got very little of it themselves.

Consequently, claims of all kinds--bills, duns, remonstrances and
threats, poured in not only upon the son but also upon the father. It
would be the first tight place I had ever got him out of, and I was
quite anxious for him to get into it, so sure was I of every move. My
whole position had altered in the few seconds that it took me to follow
this illuminating train of ideas; it was now so strong that I could
watch Raffles without much anxiety. And he was worth watching.

He had stepped boldly but softly to the front door, and there he was
still waiting, ready to ring if the door opened or a face appeared
in the area, and doubtless to pretend that he had rung already.

But he had not to ring at all; and suddenly I saw his foot in the
letter-box, his left hand on the lintel overhead. It was thrilling, even
to a hardened accomplice with an explanation up his sleeve! A tight
grip with that left hand of his, as he leant backward with all his
weight upon those five fingers; a right arm stretched outward and upward
to its last inch; and the base of the low, projecting balcony was
safely caught.

I looked down and took breath. The maid was removing the crumbs in the
lighted room, and the square was empty as before. What a blessing
it was the end of the season! Many of the houses remained in darkness.
I looked up again, and Raffles was drawing his left leg over the balcony
railing. In another moment he had disappeared through one of the French
windows which opened upon the balcony, and in yet another he had
switched on the electric light within. This was bad enough, for now
I, at least, could see everything he did; but the crowning folly was
still to come. There was no point in it; the mad thing was done for
my benefit, as I knew at once and he afterward confessed; but the
lunatic reappeared on the balcony, bowing like a mountebank--in his
crape mask!

I set off with the empty chair, but I came back. I could not desert
old Raffles, even when I would, but must try to explain away his
mask as well, if he had not the sense to take it off in time. It would
be difficult, but burglaries are not usually committed from a bath-chair,
and for the rest I put my faith in Dr. Theobald. Meanwhile Raffles had
at least withdrawn from the balcony, and now I could only see his head
as he peered into a cabinet at the other side of the room. It was like
the opera of Aida, in which two scenes are enacted simultaneously, one
in the dungeon below, the other in the temple above. In the same fashion
my attention now became divided between the picture of Raffles moving
stealthily about the upper room, and that of the husband and wife at
table underneath. And all at once, as the man replenished his glass
with a shrug of the shoulders, the woman pushed back her chair and
sailed to the door.

Raffles was standing before the fireplace upstairs.

He had taken one of the framed photographs from the chimney-piece, and
was scanning it at suicidal length through the eye-holes in the
hideous mask which he still wore. He would need it after all. The
lady had left the room below, opening and shutting the door for
herself; the man was filling his glass once more. I would have
shrieked my warning to Raffles, so fatally engrossed overhead, but
at this moment (of all others) a constable (of all men) was
marching sedately down our side of the square. There was nothing for
it but to turn a melancholy eye upon the bath-chair, and to ask the
constable the time. I was evidently to be kept there all night, I
remarked, and only realized with the words that they disposed of my
other explanations before they were uttered. It was a horrible
moment for such a discovery.

Fortunately the enemy was on the pavement, from which he could scarcely
have seen more than the drawing-room ceiling, had he looked; but he
was not many houses distant when a door opened and a woman gasped so
that I heard both across the road. And never shall I forget the
subsequent tableaux in the lighted room behind the low balcony and the
French windows.

Raffles stood confronted by a dark and handsome woman whose profile,
as I saw it first in the electric light, is cut like a cameo in my
memory.
It had the undeviating line of brow and nose, the short upper lip,
the perfect chin, that are united in marble oftener than in the
flesh; and like marble she stood, or rather like some beautiful pale
bronze; for that was her coloring, and she lost none of it that I
could see, neither trembled; but her bosom rose and fell, and
that was all. So she stood without flinching before a masked
ruffian, who, I felt, would be the first to appreciate her courage;
to me it was so superb that I could think of it in this way even then,
and marvel how Raffles himself could stand unabashed before so brave
a figure. He had not to do so long. The woman scorned him, and he
stood unmoved, a framed photograph still in his hand.

Then, with a quick, determined movement she turned, not to the
door or to the bell, but to the open window by which Raffles had
entered; and this with that accursed policeman still in view. So far
no word had passed between the pair. But at this point Raffles said
something, I could not hear what, but at the sound of his voice
the woman wheeled. And Raffles was looking humbly in her face,
the crape mask snatched from his own.

"Arthur!" she cried; and that might have been heard in the middle of the
square garden.

Then they stood gazing at each other, neither unmoved any more, and while
they stood the street-door opened and banged.

     It was her husband leaving the house, a fine figure of a man, but
a dissipated face, and a step even now distinguished by the extreme
caution which precedes unsteadiness.

He broke the spell. His wife came to the balcony, then looked back
into the room, and yet again along the road, and this time I saw her
face. It was the face of one glancing indeed from Hyperion to a
satyr. And then I saw the rings flash, as her hand fell gently upon
Raffles's arm.

They disappeared from that window. Their heads showed for an instant
in the next. Then they dipped out of sight, and an inner ceiling flashed
out under a new light; they had gone into the back drawing-room, beyond
my ken. The maid came up with coffee, her mistress hastily met her at
the door, and once more disappeared. The square was as quiet as ever. I
remained some minutes where I was. Now and then I thought I heard their
voices in the back drawing-room. I was seldom sure.

My state of mind may be imagined by those readers who take an interest
in my personal psychology. It does not amuse me to look back upon
it.
But at length I had the sense to put myself in Raffles's place. He had
been recognized at last, he had come to life. Only one person knew as
yet, but that person was a woman, and a woman who had once been
fond of him, if the human face could speak. Would she keep his
secret?
Would he tell her where he lived? It was terrible to think we were
such neighbors, and with the thought that it was terrible came a little
enlightenment as to what could still be done for the best. He would not
tell her where he lived. I knew him too well for that. He would run for
it when he could, and the bath-chair and I must not be there to give
him away. I dragged the infernal vehicle round the nearer corner.
Then I waited--there could be no harm in that--and at last he came.

He was walking briskly, so I was right, and he had not played the invalid
to her; yet I heard him cry out with pleasure as he turned the corner,
and he flung himself into the chair with a long-drawn sigh that did
me good.

"Well done, Bunny--well done! I am on my way to Earl's Court, she's
capable of following me, but she won't look for me in a bath-chair.
Home, home, home, and not another word till we get there!"

Capable of following him? She overtook us before we were past the
studios on the south side of the square, the woman herself, in a hooded
opera-cloak. But she never gave us a glance, and we saw her turn safely
in the right direction for Earl's Court, and the wrong one for our
humble mansions.

Raffles thanked his gods in a voice that trembled, and five minutes later
we were in the flat. Then for once it was Raffles who filled the
tumblers and found the cigarettes, and for once (and once only in
all my knowledge of him) did he drain his glass at a draught.

"You didn't see the balcony scene?" he asked at length; and they
were his first words since the woman passed us on his track.

"Do you mean when she came in?"
"No, when I came down."
"I didn't."
"I hope nobody else saw it," said Raffles devoutly. "I don't say that
Romeo and Juliet were brother and sister to us. But you might have
said so, Bunny!"
He was staring at the carpet with as wry a face as lover ever
wore.

"An old flame?" said I, gently.

"A married woman," he groaned.

"So I gathered."
"But she always was one, Bunny," said he, ruefully. "That's the trouble.
It makes all the difference in the world!"
I saw the difference, but said I did not see how it could make any
now.

He had eluded the lady, after all; had we not seen her off upon
a scent as false as scent could be? There was occasion for redoubled
caution in the future, but none for immediate anxiety. I quoted the
bedside Theobald, but Raffles did not smile. His eyes had been downcast
all this time, and now, when he raised them, I perceived that my
comfort had been administered to deaf ears.

"Do you know who she is?" said he.

"Not from Eve."
"Jacques Saillard," he said, as though now I must know.

But the name left me cold and stolid.

I had heard it, but that was all.

It was lamentable ignorance, I am aware, but I had specialized in Letters
at the expense of Art.

"You must know her pictures," said Raffles, patiently; "but I suppose
you thought she was a man.

They would appeal to you, Bunny; that festive piece over the sideboard
was her work.

Sometimes they risk her at the Academy, sometimes they fight shy. She has
one of those studios in the same square; they used to live up near
Lord's."

My mind was busy brightening a dim memory of nymphs reflected in
woody pools.

"Of course!" I exclaimed, and added something about "a clever woman."
Raffles rose at the phrase.

"A clever woman!"

he echoed, scornfully; "if she were only that I should feel safe
as houses.

Clever women can't forget their cleverness, they carry it as badly
as a boy does his wine, and are about as dangerous.

I don't call Jacques Saillard clever outside her art, but neither do
I call her a woman at all. She does man's work over a man's name,
has the will of any ten men I ever knew, and I don't mind telling
you that I fear her more than any person on God's earth.

I broke with her once," said Raffles, grimly, "but I know her. If I had
been asked to name the one person in London by whom I was keenest NOT
to be bowled out, I should have named Jacques Saillard."

That he had never before named her to me was as characteristic as
the reticence with which Raffles spoke of their past relations, and
even of their conversation in the back drawing-room that evening.

It was a question of principle with him, and one that I like to remember.
"Never give a woman away, Bunny," he used to say; and he said it
again to-night, but with a heavy cloud upon him, as though his
chivalry was sorely tried.

"That's all right," said I, "if you're not going to be given away
yourself."

"That's just it, Bunny! That's just--"
The words were out of him, it was too late to recall them.

I had hit the nail upon the head.

"So she threatened you," I said, "did she?"
"I didn't say so," he replied, coldly.

"And she is mated with a clown!" I pursued.

"How she ever married him," he admitted, "is a mystery to me."
"It always is," said I, the wise man for once, and rather enjoying
the role.

"Southern blood?"
"Spanish."
"She'll be pestering you to run off with her, old chap," said I.

Raffles was pacing the room. He stopped in his stride for half a
second. So she had begun pestering him already! It is wonderful how
acute any fool can be in the affairs of his friend.

But Raffles resumed his walk without a syllable, and I retreated to
safer ground.

"So you sent her to Earl's Court," I mused aloud; and at last he
smiled.

"You'll be interested to hear, Bunny," said he, "that I am now
living in Seven Dials, and Bill Sikes couldn't hold a farthing dip
to me.

Bless you, she had my old police record at her fingers' ends, but it was
fit to frame compared with the one I gave her.

I had sunk as low as they dig. I divided my nights between the open parks
and a thieves' kitchen in Seven Dials.

If I was decently dressed it was because I had stolen the suit down the
Thames Valley beat the night before last.

I was on my way back when first that sleepy square, and then her open
window, proved too much for me. You should have heard me beg her
to let me push on to the devil in my own way; there I spread myself,
for I meant every word; but I swore the final stage would be a six-foot
drop."

"You did lay it on," said I.

"It was necessary, and that had its effect. She let me go. But at the
last moment she said she didn't believe I was so black as I painted
myself, and then there was the balcony scene you missed."
So that was all.

I could not help telling him that he had got out of it better than
he deserved for ever getting in.

Next moment I regretted the remark.

"If I have got out of it," said Raffles, doubtfully. "We are dreadfully
near neighbors, and I can't move in a minute, with old Theobald
taking a grave view of my case. I suppose I had better lie low, and
thank the gods again for putting her off the scent for the time
being."
No doubt our conversation was carried beyond this point, but it certainly
was not many minutes later, nor had we left the subject, when the
electric bell thrilled us both to a sudden silence.

"The doctor?" I queried, hope fighting with my horror.

"It was a single ring."
"The last post?"
"You know he knocks, and it's long past his time."
The electric bell rang again, but now as though it never would stop.

"You go, Bunny," said Raffles, with decision. His eyes were sparkling.

His smile was firm.

"What am I to say?"
"If it's the lady let her in."
It was the lady, still in her evening cloak, with her fine dark
head half-hidden by the hood, and an engaging contempt of appearances
upon her angry face.

She was even handsomer than I had thought, and her beauty of a bolder
type, but she was also angrier than I had anticipated when I came so
readily to the door. The passage into which it opened was an exceedingly
narrow one, as I have often said, but I never dreamt of barring
this woman's way, though not a word did she stoop to say to me. I was
only too glad to flatten myself against the wall, as the rustling
fury strode past me into the lighted room with the open door.

"So this is your thieves' kitchen!" she cried, in high-pitched scorn.

I was on the threshold myself, and Raffles glanced towards me with
raised eyebrows.

"I have certainly had better quarters in my day," said he, "but
you need not call them absurd names before my man."

"Then send your 'man' about his business," said Jacques Saillard, with
an unpleasant stress upon the word indicated.

But when the door was shut I heard Raffles assuring her that I knew
nothing, that he was a real invalid overcome by a sudden mad
temptation, and all he had told her of his life a lie to hide his
whereabouts, but all he was telling her now she could prove for
herself without leaving that building.

It seemed, however, that she had proved it already by going first
to the porter below stairs.

Yet I do not think she cared one atom which story was the truth.

"So you thought I could pass you in your chair," she said, "or ever
in this world again, without hearing from my heart that it was you!"

II
"Bunny," said Raffles, "I'm awfully sorry, old chap, but you've got to
go."

It was some weeks since the first untimely visitation of Jacques
Saillard, but there had been many others at all hours of the day,
while Raffles had been induced to pay at least one to her studio
in the neighboring square.

These intrusions he had endured at first with an air of humorous resignation
which imposed upon me less than he imagined. The woman meant well, he
said, after all, and could be trusted to keep his secret loyally. It
was plain to me, however, that Raffles did not trust her, and that his
pretence upon the point was a deliberate pose to conceal the extent to
which she had him in her power. Otherwise there would have been
little point in hiding anything from the one person in possession of
the cardinal secret of his identity.

But Raffles thought it worth his while to hoodwink Jacques Saillard in
the subsidiary matter of his health, in which Dr. Theobald lent him
unwitting assistance, and, as we have seen, to impress upon her
that I was actually his attendant, and as ignorant of his past as
the doctor himself.

"So you're all right, Bunny," he had assured me; "she thinks you knew
nothing the other night.

I told you she wasn't a clever woman outside her work. But hasn't
she a will!"

I told Raffles it was very considerate of him to keep me out of it, but
that it seemed to me like tying up the bag when the cat had escaped.
His reply was an admission that one must be on the defensive with such
a woman and in such a case.
Soon after this, Raffles, looking far from well, fell back upon his own
last line of defence, namely, his bed; and now, as always in the
end, I could see some sense in his subtleties, since it was
comparatively easy for me to turn even Jacques Saillard from the
door, with Dr.

Theobald's explicit injunctions, and with my own honesty unquestioned.
So for a day we had peace once more. Then came letters, then the
doctor again and again, and finally my dismissal in the incredible
words which have necessitated these explanations.

"Go?" I echoed. "Go where?"
"It's that ass Theobald," said Raffles. "He insists."
"On my going altogether?"
He nodded.

"And you mean to let him have his way?"
I had no language for my mortification and disgust, though neither was
as yet quite so great as my surprise. I had foreseen almost every
conceivable consequence of the mad act which brought all this trouble
to pass, but a voluntary division between Raffles and me had certainly
never entered my calculations.

Nor could I think that it had occurred to him before our egregious doctor's
last visit, this very morning.
Raffles had looked irritated as he broke the news to me from his pillow,
and now there was some sympathy in the way he sat up in bed, as though
he felt the thing himself.

"I am obliged to give in to the fellow," said he. "He's saving me from
my friend, and I'm bound to humor him. But I can tell you that we've
been arguing about you for the last half hour, Bunny. It was no
use; the idiot has had his knife in you from the first; and he
wouldn't see me through on any other conditions."

"So he is going to see you through, is he?"

"It tots up to that," said Raffles, looking at me rather hard. "At
all events he has come to my rescue for the time being, and it's
for me to manage the rest. You don't know what it has been, Bunny, these
last few weeks; and gallantry forbids that I should tell you even now.
But would you rather elope against your will, or have your continued
existence made known to the world in general and the police in
particular?

That is practically the problem which I have had to solve, and the
temporary solution was to fall ill. As a matter of fact, I am ill;
and now what do you think? I owe it to you to tell you, Bunny,
though it goes against the grain. She would take me 'to the dear, warm
underworld, where the sun really shines,' and she would 'nurse me
back to life and love!' The artistic temperament is a fearsome thing,
Bunny, in a woman with the devil's own will!"
Raffles tore up the letter from which he had read these piquant
extracts, and lay back on the pillows with the tired air of the
veritable invalid which he seemed able to assume at will.

But for once he did look as though bed was the best place for him; and
I used the fact as an argument for my own retention in defiance of Dr.
Theobald.

The town was full of typhoid, I said, and certainly that autumnal scourge
was in the air. Did he want me to leave him at the very moment when
he might be sickening for a serious illness?

"You know I don't, my good fellow," said Raffles, wearily; "but Theobald
does, and I can't afford to go against him now. Not that I really care
what happens to me now that that woman knows I'm in the land of
the living; she'll let it out, to a dead certainty, and at the best
there'll be a hue and cry, which is the very thing I have escaped
all these years.

Now, what I want you to do is to go and take some quiet place somewhere,
and then let me know, so that I may have a port in the storm when
it breaks."
"Now you're talking!" I cried, recovering my spirits. "I thought
you meant to go and drop a fellow altogether!"
"Exactly the sort of thing you would think," rejoined Raffles, with
a contempt that was welcome enough after my late alarm. "No, my
dear rabbit, what you've got to do is to make a new burrow for us
both. Try down the Thames, in some quiet nook that a literary man
would naturally select. I've often thought that more use might be
made of a boat, while the family are at dinner, than there ever has
been yet. If Raffles is to come to life, old chap, he shall go
a-Raffling for all he's worth! There's something to be done with a
bicycle, too. Try Ham Common or Roehampton, or some such sleepy
hollow a trifle off the line; and say you're expecting your brother
from the colonies."
Into this arrangement I entered without the slightest hesitation,
for we had funds enough to carry it out on a comfortable scale, and
Raffles placed a sufficient share at my disposal for the nonce.
Moreover, I for one was only too glad to seek fresh fields and
pastures new--a phrase which I determined to interpret literally
in my choice of fresh surroundings. I was tired of our submerged
life in the poky little flat, especially now that we had money
enough for better things. I myself of late had dark dealings with
the receivers, with the result that poor Lord Ernest Belville's
successes were now indeed ours.
Subsequent complications had been the more galling on that account,
while the wanton way in which they had been created was the most
irritating reflection of all. But it had brought its own punishment
upon Raffles, and I fancied the lesson would prove salutary when
we again settled down.
"If ever we do, Bunny!" said he, as I took his hand and told him
how I was already looking forward to the time.
"But of course we will!" I cried, concealing the resentment at
leaving him which his tone and his appearance renewed in my
breast.
"I'm not so sure of it," he said, gloomily. "I'm in somebody's
clutches, and I've got to get out of them first."
"I'll sit tight until you do."
"Well," he said, "if you don't see me in ten days you never will."
"Only ten days?" I echoed. "That's nothing at all."
"A lot may happen in ten days," replied Raffles, in the same
depressing tone, so very depressing in him; and with that he held
out his hand a second time, and dropped mine suddenly after as
sudden a pressure for farewell.
I left the flat in considerable dejection after all, unable to
decide whether Raffles was really ill, or only worried as I knew
him to be.
And at the foot of the stairs the author of my dismissal, that
confounded Theobald, flung open his door and waylaid me.
"Are you going?" he demanded.
The traps in my hands proclaimed that I was, but I dropped them at
his feet to have it out with him then and there.
"Yes," I answered fiercely, "thanks to you!""Then," continued Fanny,--and a deep blush covered her face as she
spoke, "I will write to Lord Ballindine, and tell him that I am still
his own if he chooses to take me."

"Oh, Fanny! do not say such a horrid thing. Write to a man, and beg him
to accept you? No, Fanny; I know you too well, at any rate, to believe
that you'll do that."

"Indeed, indeed, I will."

"Then you'll disgrace yourself for ever. Oh, Fanny! though my heart
were breaking, though I knew I were dying for very love, I'd sooner
have it break, I'd sooner die at once, than disgrace my sex by becoming
a suppliant to a man."

"Disgrace, Selina!--and am I not now disgraced? Have I not given him my
solemn word? Have I not pledged myself to him as his wife? Have I not
sworn to him a hundred times that my heart was all his own? Have I not
suffered those caresses which would have been disgraceful had I not
looked on myself as almost already his bride? And is it no disgrace,
after that, to break my word?--to throw him aside like a glove that
wouldn't fit?--to treat him as a servant that wouldn't suit me?--to
send him a contemptuous message to be gone?--and so, to forget him,
that I might lay myself out for the addresses and admiration of
another? Could any conduct be worse than that?--any disgrace deeper?
Oh, Selina! I shudder as I think of it. Could I ever bring my lips to
own affection for another, without being overwhelmed with shame and
disgrace? And then, that the world should say that I had accepted, and
rejoiced in his love when I was poor, and rejected it with scorn when I
was rich! No; I would sooner--ten thousand times sooner my uncle should
do it for me! but if he will not write to Frank, I will. And though my
hand will shake, and my face will be flushed as I do so, I shall never
think that I have disgraced myself."

"And if, Fanny--if, after that he refuses you?"

Fanny was still standing, and she remained so for a moment or two,
meditating her reply, and then she answered:--

"Should he do so, then I have the alternative which you say you would
prefer; then I will endeavour to look forward to a broken heart, and
death, without a complaint and without tears. Then, Selina," and
she tried to smile through the tears which were again running down
her cheeks, "I'll come to you, and endeavour to borrow your stoic
endurance, and patient industry;" and, as she said so, she walked to
the door and escaped, before Lady Selina had time to reply.


XXIX.  THE COUNTESS OF CASHEL IN TROUBLE


After considerable negotiation between the father and the son, the time
was fixed for Lord Kilcullen's arrival at Grey Abbey. The earl tried
much to accelerate it, and the viscount was equally anxious to stave
off the evil day; but at last it was arranged that, on the 3rd of
April, he was to make his appearance, and that he should commence his
wooing as soon as possible after that day.

When this was absolutely fixed, Lord Cashel paid a visit to his
countess, in her boudoir, to inform her of the circumstance, and
prepare her for the expected guest. He did not, however, say a word of
the purport of his son's visit. He had, at one time, thought of telling
the old lady all about it, and bespeaking her influence with Fanny for
the furtherance of his plan; but, on reconsideration, he reflected that
his wife was not the person to be trusted with any intrigue. So he
merely told her that Lord Kilcullen would be at Grey Abbey in five
days; that he would probably remain at home a long time; that, as he
was giving up his London vices and extravagances, and going to reside
at Grey Abbey, he wished that the house should be made as pleasant for
him as possible; that a set of friends, relatives, and acquaintances
should be asked to come and stay there; and, in short, that Lord
Kilcullen, having been a truly prodigal son, should have a fatted calf
prepared for his arrival.

All this flurried and rejoiced, terrified and excited my lady
exceedingly. In the first place it was so truly delightful that her
son should turn good and proper, and careful and decorous, just at
the right time of life; so exactly the thing that ought to happen. Of
course young noblemen were extravagant, and wicked, and lascivious,
habitual breakers of the commandments, and self-idolators; it was their
nature. In Lady Cashel's thoughts on the education of young men, these
evils were ranked with the measles and hooping cough; it was well that
they should be gone through and be done with early in life. She had
a kind of hazy idea that an opera-dancer and a gambling club were
indispensable in fitting a young aristocrat for his future career;
and I doubt whether she would not have agreed to the expediency
of inoculating a son of hers with these ailments in a mild
degree--vaccinating him as it were with dissipation, in order that he
might not catch the disease late in life in a violent and fatal form.
She had not therefore made herself unhappy about her son for a few
years after his first entrance on a life in London, but latterly she
had begun to be a little uneasy. Tidings of the great amount of his
debts reached even her ears; and, moreover, it was nearly time that he
should reform and settle down. During the last twelve months she had
remarked fully twelve times, to Griffiths, that she wondered when
Kilcullen would marry?--and she had even twice asked her husband,
whether he didn't think that such a circumstance would be advantageous.
She was therefore much rejoiced to hear that her son was coming to live
at home. But then, why was it so sudden? It was quite proper that the
house should be made a little gay for his reception; that he shouldn't
be expected to spend his evenings with no other society than that of
his father and mother, his sister and his cousin; but how was she
to get the house ready for the people, and the people ready for the
house, at so very short a notice?--What trouble, also, it would be
to her!--Neither she nor Griffiths would know another moment's rest;
besides--and the thought nearly drove her into hysterics,--where was
she to get a new cook?

However, she promised her husband to do her best. She received from
him a list of people to be invited, and, merely stipulating that she
shouldn't be required to ask any one except the parson of the parish
under a week, undertook to make the place as bearable as possible to
so fastidious and distinguished a person as her own son.

Her first confidante was, of course, Griffiths; and, with her
assistance, the wool and the worsted, and the knitting-needles, the
unfinished vallances and interminable yards of fringe, were put up and
rolled out of the way; and it was then agreed that a council should be
held, to which her ladyship proposed to invite Lady Selina and Fanny.
Griffiths, however, advanced an opinion that the latter was at present
too lack-a-daisical to be of any use in such a matter, and strengthened
her argument by asserting that Miss Wyndham had of late been quite
mumchance [44]. Lady Cashel was at first rather inclined to insist
on her niece being called to the council, but Griffiths's eloquence
was too strong, and her judgment too undoubted; so Fanny was left
undisturbed, and Lady Selina alone summoned to join the aged female
senators of Grey Abbey.

     [FOOTNOTE 44: mumchance--silent and idle]

"Selina," said her ladyship, as soon as her daughter was seated on
the sofa opposite to her mother's easy chair, while Griffiths, having
shut the door, had, according to custom, sat herself down on her own
soft-bottomed chair, on the further side of the little table that
always stood at the countess's right hand. "Selina, what do you think
your father tells me?"

Lady Selina couldn't think, and declined guessing; for, as she
remarked, guessing was a loss of time, and she never guessed right.

"Adolphus is coming home on Tuesday."

"Adolphus! why it's not a month since he was here."

"And he's not coming only for a visit; he's coming to stay here; from
what your father says, I suppose he'll stay here the greater part of
the summer."

"What, stay at Grey Abbey all May and June?" said Lady Selina,
evidently discrediting so unlikely a story, and thinking it all but
impossible that her brother should immure himself at Grey Abbey during
the London season.

"It's true, my lady," said Griffiths, oracularly; as if her word were
necessary to place the countess's statement beyond doubt.

"Yes," continued Lady Cashel; "and he has given up all his
establishment in London--his horses, and clubs, and the opera, and all
that. He'll go into Parliament, I dare say, now, for the county; at any
rate he's coming to live at home here for the summer."

"And has he sold all his horses?" asked Lady Selina.

"If he's not done it, he's doing it," said the countess. "I declare
I'm delighted with him; it shows such proper feeling. I always knew he
would; I was sure that when the time came for doing it, Adolphus would
not forget what was due to himself and to his family."

"If what you say is true, mamma, he's going to be married."

"That's just what I was thinking, my lady," said Griffiths. "When her
ladyship first told me all about it,--how his lordship was coming down
to live regular and decorous among his own people, and that he was
turning his back upon his pleasures and iniquities, thinks I to myself
there'll be wedding favours coming soon to Grey Abbey."

"If it is so, Selina, your father didn't say anything to me about it,"
said the countess, somewhat additionally flustered by the importance of
the last suggestion; "and if he'd even guessed such a thing, I'm sure
he'd have mentioned it."

"It mightn't be quite fixed, you know, mamma: but if Adolphus is doing
as you say, you may be sure he's either engaged, or thinking of
becoming so."

"Well, my dear, I'm sure I wish it may be so; only I own I'd like to
know, because it makes a difference, as to the people he'd like to
meet, you know. I'm sure nothing would delight me so much as to
receive Adolphus's wife. Of course she'd always be welcome to lie in
here--indeed it'd be the fittest place. But we should be dreadfully put
about, eh, Griffiths?"

"Why, we should, my lady; but, to my mind, this would be the only most
proper place for my lord's heir to be born in. If the mother and child
couldn't have the best of minding here, where could they?"

"Of course, Griffiths; and we wouldn't mind the trouble, on such an
occasion. I think the south room would be the best, because of the
dressing-room being such a good size, and neither of the fireplaces
smoking, you know."

"Well, I don't doubt but it would, my lady; only the blue room is
nearer to your ladyship here, and in course your ladyship would choose
to be in and out."

And visions of caudle cups, cradles, and monthly nurses, floated over
Lady Cashel's brain, and gave her a kind of dreamy feel that the world
was going to begin again with her.

"But, mamma, is Adolphus really to be here on Tuesday?" said Lady
Selina, recalling the two old women from their attendance on the
unborn, to the necessities of the present generation.

"Indeed he is, my dear, and that's what I sent for you for. Your papa
wishes to have a good deal of company here to meet your brother; and
indeed it's only reasonable, for of course this place would be very
dull for him, if there was nobody here but ourselves--and he's always
used to see so many people; but the worst is, it's all to be done at
once, and you know there'll be so much to be got through before we'll
be ready for a house full of company,--things to be got from Dublin,
and the people to be asked. And then, Selina," and her ladyship almost
wept as the latter came to her great final difficulty--"What are we to
do about a cook?--Richards'll never do; Griffiths says she won't even
do for ourselves, as it is."

"Indeed she won't, my lady; it was only impudence in her coming to such
a place at all.--She'd never be able to send a dinner up for eighteen
or twenty."

"What are we to do, Griffiths? What can have become of all the
cooks?--I'm sure there used to be cooks enough when I was first
married."

"Well, my lady, I think they must be all gone to England, those that
are any good; but I don't know what's come to the servants altogether;
as your ladyship says, they're quite altered for the worse since we
were young."

"But, mamma," said Lady Selina, "you're not going to ask people here
just immediately, are you?"

"Directly, my dear; your papa wishes it done at once. We're to have
a dinner-party this day week--that'll be Thursday; and we'll get as
many of the people as we can to stay afterwards; and we'll get the
O'Joscelyns to come on Wednesday, just to make the table look not quite
so bare, and I want you to write the notes at once. There'll be a great
many things to be got from Dublin too."

"It's very soon after poor Harry Wyndham's death, to be receiving
company," said Lady Selina, solemnly. "Really, mamma, I don't think it
will be treating Fanny well to be asking all these people so soon. The
O'Joscelyns, or the Fitzgeralds, are all very well--just our own near
neighbours; but don't you think, mamma, it's rather too soon to be
asking a house-full of strange people?"

"Well, my love, I was thinking so, and I mentioned it to your father;
but he said that poor Harry had been dead a month now--and that's true,
you know--and that people don't think so much now about those kind of
things as they used to; and that's true too, I believe."

"Indeed you may say that, my lady," interposed Griffiths. "I remember
when bombazines used to be worn three full months for an uncle or
cousin, and now they're hardly ever worn at all for the like, except
in cases where the brother or sister of him or her as is dead may be
stopping in the house, and then only for a month: and they were always
worn the full six months for a brother or sister, and sometimes the
twelve months round. Your aunt, Lady Charlotte, my lady, wore hers the
full twelve months, when your uncle, Lord Frederick, was shot by Sir
Patrick O'Donnel; and now they very seldom, never, I may say, wear them
the six months!--Indeed, I think mourning is going out altogether; and
I'm very sorry for it, for it's a very decent, proper sort of thing; at
least, such was always my humble opinion, my lady."

"Well; but what I was saying is," continued the countess, "that what
would be thought strange a few years ago, isn't thought at all so now;
and though I'm sure, Selina, I wouldn't like to do anything that looked
unkind to Fanny, I really don't see how we can help it, as your father
makes such a point of it."

"I can't say I think it's right, mamma, for I don't. But if you and
papa do, of course I've nothing further to say."

"Well, my love, I don't know that I do exactly think it's right; and
I'm sure it's not my wish to be having people, especially when I don't
know where on earth to turn for a cook. But what can we do, my dear?
Adolphus wouldn't stay the third night here, I'm sure, if there was
nobody to amuse him; and you wouldn't have him turned out of the house,
would you?"

"_I_ have him turned out, mamma? God forbid! I'd sooner he should be
here than anywhere, for here he must be out of harm's way; but still I
think that if he comes to a house of mourning, he might, for a short
time, submit to put up with its decent tranquillity."

"Selina," said the mother, pettishly, "I really thought you'd help
me when I've so much to trouble and vex me--and not make any fresh
difficulties. How can I help it?--If your father says the people are
to come, I can't say I won't let them in. I hope you won't make Fanny
think I'm doing it from disrespect to her. I'm sure I wouldn't have a
soul here for a twelvemonth, on my own account."

"I'm sure Miss Wyndham won't think any such thing, my lady," said
Griffiths; "will she, Lady Selina?--Indeed, I don't think she'll matter
it one pin."

"Indeed, Selina, I don't think she will," said the countess; and then
she half whispered to her daughter. "Poor Fanny! it's not about her
brother she's grieving; it's that horrid man, Ballindine. She sent
him away, and now she wants to have him back. I really think a little
company will be the best thing to bring her to herself again." There
was a little degree of humbug in this whisper, for her ladyship meant
her daughter to understand that she wouldn't speak aloud about Fanny's
love-affair before Griffiths; and yet she had spent many a half hour
talking to her factotum on that very subject. Indeed, what subject was
there of any interest to Lady Cashel on which she did not talk to
Griffiths!

"Well, mamma," said Lady Selina, dutifully, "I'll not say another word
about it; only let me know what you want me to do, and I'll do it. Who
is it you mean to ask?"

"Why, first of all, there's the Fitzgeralds: your father thinks that
Lord and Lady George would come for a week or so, and you know the
girls have been long talking of coming to Grey Abbey--these two years I
believe, and more."

"The girls will come, I dare say, mamma; though I don't exactly think
they're the sort of people who will amuse Adolphus; but I don't think
Lord George or Lady George will sleep away from home. We can ask them,
however; Mountains is only five miles from here, and I'm sure they'll
go back after dinner."

"Well, my dear, if they will, they must, and I can't help it; only I
must say it'll be very ill-natured of them. I'm sure it's a long time
since they were asked to stay here."

"As you say, mamma, at any rate we can ask them. And who comes next?"

"Why your father has put down the Swinburn people next; though I'm sure
I don't know how they are to come so far."

"Why, mamma, the colonel is a martyr to the gout!"

"Yes, my lady," said Griffiths, "and Mrs. Ellison is worse again, with
rheumatics. There would be nothing to do, the whole time, but nurse the
two of them."

"Never mind, Griffiths; you'll not have to nurse them, so you needn't
be so ill-natured."

"Me, ill-natured, my lady? I'm sure I begs pardon, but I didn't mean
nothing ill-natured; besides, Mrs. Ellison was always a very nice lady
to me, and I'm sure I'd be happy to nurse her, if she wanted it; only
that, as in duty bound, I've your ladyship to look to first, and so
couldn't spare time very well for nursing any one."

"Of course you couldn't, Griffiths; but, Selina, at any rate you must
ask the Ellisons: your papa thinks a great deal about the colonel--he
has so much influence in the county, and Adolphus will very likely
stand, now. Your papa and the colonel were members together for the
county more than forty years since."

"Well, mamma, I'll write Mrs. Ellison. Shall I say for a week or ten
days?"

"Say for ten days or a fortnight, and then perhaps they'll stay a
week. Then there's the Bishop of Maryborough, and Mrs. Moore. I'm sure
Adolphus will be glad to meet the bishop, for it was he that christened
him."

"Very well, mamma, I'll write to Mrs. Moore. I suppose the bishop is in
Dublin at present?"

"Yes, my dear, I believe so. There can't be anything to prevent their
coming."

"Only that he's the managing man on the Education Board, and he's
giving up his time very much to that at present. I dare say he'll come,
but he won't stay long."

"Well, Selina, if he won't, I can't help it; and I'm sure, now I think
about the cook, I don't see how we're to expect anybody to stay. What
am I to do, Griffiths, about that horrid woman?"

"I'll tell you what I was thinking, my lady; only I don't know whether
your ladyship would like it, either, and if you didn't you could easily
get rid of him when all these people are gone."

"Get rid of who?"

"I was going to say, my lady--if your ladyship would consent to have a
man cook for a time, just to try."

"Then I never will, Griffiths: there'd be no peace in the house with
him!"

"Well, your ladyship knows best, in course; only if you thought well
of trying it, of course you needn't keep the man; and I know there's
Murray in Dublin, that was cook so many years to old Lord Galway. I
know he's to be heard of at the hotel in Grafton Street."

"I can't bear the thoughts of a man cook, Griffiths: I'd sooner have
three women cooks, and I'm sure one's enough to plague anybody."

"But none's worse, my lady," said Griffiths.

"You needn't tell me that. I wonder, Selina, if I were to write to my
sister, whether she could send me over anything that would answer?"

"What, from London, my lady?" answered Griffiths--"You'd find a London
woman cook sent over in that way twice worse than any man: she'd be
all airs and graces. If your ladyship thought well of thinking about
Murray, Richards would do very well under him: she's a decent poor
creature, poor woman--only she certainly is not a cook that'd suit for
such a house as this; and it was only impudence her thinking to attempt
it."

"But, mamma," said Lady Selina, "do let me know to whom I am to write,
and then you and Griffiths can settle about the cook afterwards; the
time is so very short that I ought not to lose a post."

The poor countess threw herself back in her easy chair, the picture of
despair. Oh, how much preferable were rolls of worsted and yards of
netting, to the toils and turmoil of preparing for, and entertaining
company! She was already nearly overcome by the former: she didn't dare
to look forward to the miseries of the latter. She already began to
feel the ill effects of her son's reformation, and to wish that it had
been postponed just for a month or two, till she was a little more
settled.

"Well, mamma," said Lady Selina, as undisturbed and calm as ever, and
as resolved to do her duty without flinching, "shall we go on?"

The countess groaned and sighed--"There's the list there, Selina, which
your father put down in pencil. You know the people as well as I do:
just ask them all--"

"But, mamma, I'm not to ask them all to stay here:--I suppose some are
only to come to dinner?--the O'Joscelyns, and the Parchments?"

"Ask the O'Joscelyns for Wednesday and Thursday: the girls might
as well stay and sleep here. But what's the good of writing to
them?--can't you drive over to the Parsonage and settle it all
there?--you do nothing but make difficulties, Selina, and my head's
racking."

Lady Selina sate silent for a short time, conning the list, and
endeavouring to see her way through the labyrinth of difficulties
which was before her, without further trouble to her mother; while the
countess leaned back, with her eyes closed, and her hands placed on the
arms of her chair, as though she were endeavouring to get some repose,
after the labour she had gone through. Her daughter, however, again
disturbed her.

"Mamma," she said, trying by the solemnity of her tone to impress her
mother with the absolute necessity she was under of again appealing to
her upon the subject, "what _are_ we to do about young men?"

"About young men, my dear?"

"Yes, mamma: there'll be a house-full of young ladies--there's the
Fitzgeralds--and Lady Louisa Pratt--and Miss Ellison--and the three
O'Joscelyns--and not a single young man, except Mr O'Joscelyn's
curate!"

"Well, my dear, I'm sure Mr. Hill's a very nice young man."

"So he is, mamma; a very good young man; but he won't do to amuse such
a quantity of girls. If there were only one or two he'd do very well;
besides, I'm sure Adolphus won't like it."

"Why; won't he talk to the young ladies?--I'm sure he was always fond
of ladies' society."

"I tell you, mamma, it won't do. There'll be the bishop and two other
clergymen, and old Colonel Ellison, who has always got the gout, and
Lord George, if he comes--and I'm sure he won't. If you want to make a
pleasant party for Adolphus, you must get some young men; besides, you
can't ask all those girls, and have nobody to dance with them or talk
to them."

"I'm sure, my dear, I don't know what you're to do. I don't know any
young men except Mr. Hill; and there's that young Mr. Grundy, who lives
in Dublin. I promised his aunt to be civil to him: can't you ask him
down?"

"He was here before, mamma, and I don't think he liked it. I'm sure we
didn't. He didn't speak a word the whole day he was here. He's not at
all the person to suit Adolphus."

"Then, my dear, you _must_ go to your papa, and ask him: it's quite
clear I can't make young men. I remember, years ago, there always used
to be too many of them, and I don't know where they're all gone to. At
any rate, when they do come, there'll be nothing for them to eat," and
Lady Cashel again fell back upon her deficiencies in the kitchen
establishment.

Lady Selina saw that nothing more could be obtained from her mother,
no further intelligence as regarded the embryo party. The whole burden
was to lie on her shoulders, and very heavy she felt it. As far as
concerned herself, she had no particular wish for one kind of guest
more than another: it was not for herself that she wanted young men;
she knew that at any rate there were none within reach whom she could
condescend to notice save as her father's guests; there could be no
one there whose presence could be to her of any interest: the gouty
colonel, and the worthy bishop, would be as agreeable to her as any
other men that would now be likely to visit Grey Abbey. But Lady Selina
felt a real desire that others in the house might be happy while there.
She was no flirt herself, nor had she ever been; it was not in her
nature to be so. But though she herself might be contented to twaddle
with old men, she knew that other girls would not. Yet it was not that
she herself had no inward wish for that admiration which is desired
by nearly every woman, or that she thought a married state was an
unenviable one. No; she could have loved and loved truly, and could
have devoted herself most scrupulously to the duties of a wife; but she
had vainly and foolishly built up for herself a pedestal, and there she
had placed herself; nor would she come down to stand on common earth,
though Apollo had enticed her, unless he came with the coronet of a
peer upon his brow.

She left her mother's boudoir, went down into the drawing-room,
and there she wrote her notes of invitation, and her orders to the
tradesmen; and then she went to her father, and consulted him on the
difficult subject of young men. She suggested the Newbridge Barracks,
where the dragoons were; and the Curragh, where perhaps some stray
denizen of pleasure might be found, neither too bad for Grey Abbey, nor
too good to be acceptable to Lord Kilcullen; and at last it was decided
that a certain Captain Cokely, and Mat Tierney, should be asked. They
were both acquaintances of Adolphus; and though Mat was not a young
man, he was not very old, and was usually very gay.

So that matter was settled, and the invitations were sent off. The
countess overcame her difficulty by consenting that Murray the man cook
should be hired for a given time, with the distinct understanding that
he was to take himself off with the rest of the guests, and so great
was her ladyship's sense of the importance of the negotiation, that she
absolutely despatched Griffiths to Dublin to arrange it, though thereby
she was left two whole days in solitary misery at Grey Abbey; and had
to go to bed, and get up, she really hardly knew how, with such
assistance as Lady Selina's maid could give her.

When these things were all arranged, Selina told her cousin that
Adolphus was coming home, and that a house full of company had been
asked to meet him. She was afraid that Fanny would be annoyed and
offended at being forced to go into company so soon after her brother's
death, but such was not the case. She felt, herself, that her poor
brother was not the cause of the grief that was near her heart; and she
would not pretend what she didn't really feel.

"You were quite right, Selina," she said, smiling, "about the things
you said yesterday I should want from Dublin: now, I shall want them;
and, as I wouldn't accept of your good-natured offer, I must take the
trouble of writing myself."

"If you like it, Fanny, I'll write for you," said Selina.

"Oh no, I'm not quite so idle as that"--and she also began her
preparations for the expected festivities. Little did either of them
think that she, Fanny Wyndham, was the sole cause of all the trouble
which the household and neighbourhood were to undergo:--the fatigue of
the countess; Griffiths's journey; the arrival of the dread man cook;
Richards's indignation at being made subordinate to such authority; the
bishop's desertion of the Education Board; the colonel's dangerous and
precipitate consumption of colchicum; the quarrel between Lord and
Lady George as to staying or not staying; the new dresses of the Miss
O'Joscelyns, which their worthy father could so ill afford; and, above
all, the confusion, misery, rage, and astonishment which attended Lord
Kilcullen's unexpected retreat from London, in the middle of the
summer. And all in vain!

How proud and satisfied Lord Ballindine might have been, had he been
able to see all this, and could he have known how futile was every
effort Lord Cashel could make to drive from Fanny Wyndham's heart the
love she felt for him.

The invitations, however, were, generally speaking, accepted. The
bishop and his wife would be most happy; the colonel would come if the
gout would possibly allow; Lady George wrote a note to say they would
be very happy to stay a few days, and Lord George wrote another soon
after to say he was sorry, but that they must return the same evening.
The O'Joscelyns would be delighted; Mat Tierney would be very proud;
Captain Cokely would do himself the honour; and, last but not least,
Mr. Murray would preside below stairs--for a serious consideration.

What a pity so much trouble should have been taken! They might all have
stayed at home; for Fanny Wyndham will never become Lady Kilcullen.


XXX.  LORD KILCULLEN OBEYS HIS FATHER


On the appointed day, or rather on the night of the appointed day, Lord
Kilcullen reached Grey Abbey; for it was about eleven o'clock when his
travelling-phaëton rattled up to the door. He had been expected to
dinner at seven, and the first attempts of Murray in the kitchens of
Grey Abbey had been kept waiting for him till half-past eight; but in
vain. At that hour the earl, black with ill-humour, ordered dinner;
and remarked that he considered it criminal in any man to make an
appointment, who was not sufficiently attached to veracity to keep it.

The evening was passed in moody silence. The countess was disappointed,
for she always contrived to persuade herself that she was very anxious
to see her son. Lady Selina was really vexed, and began to have her
doubts as to her brother's coming at all: what was to be done, if it
turned out that all the company had been invited for nothing? As to
Fanny, though very indifferent to the subject of her cousin's coming,
she was not at all in a state of mind to dissipate the sullenness which
prevailed. The ladies went to bed early, the countess grumbling at her
lot, in not being allowed to see her son, and her daughter and niece
marching off with their respective candlesticks in solemn silence. The
earl retired to his book-room soon afterwards; but he had not yet sat
down, when the quick rattle of the wheels was heard upon the gravel
before the house.

Lord Cashel walked out into the hall, prepared to meet his son in a
befitting manner; that is, with a dignified austerity that could not
fail to convey a rebuke even to his hardened heart. But he was balked
in his purpose, for he found that Lord Kilcullen was not alone; Mat
Tierney had come down with him. Kilcullen had met his friend in Dublin,
and on learning that he also was bound for Grey Abbey on the day but
one following, had persuaded him to accelerate his visit, had waited
for him, and brought him down in his own carriage. The truth was, that
Lord Kilcullen had thought that the shades of Grey Abbey would be too
much for him, without some genial spirit to enlighten them: he was
delighted to find that Mat Tierney was to be there, and was rejoiced
to be able to convey him with him, as a sort of protection from his
father's eloquence for the first two days of the visit.

"Lord Kilcullen, your mother and I--" began the father, intent on at
once commenting on the iniquity of the late arrival; when he saw the
figure of a very stout gentleman, amply wrapped up in travelling
habiliments, follow his son into the inner hall.

"Tierney, my lord," said the son, "was good enough to come down with
me. I found that he intended to be here to-morrow, and I told him you
and my mother would be delighted to see him to-day instead."

The earl shook Mr. Tierney's hand, and told him how very welcome he
was at all times, and especially at present--unexpected pleasures were
always the most agreeable; and then the earl bustled about, and ordered
supper and wine, and fussed about the bed-rooms, and performed the
necessary rites of hospitality, and then went to bed, without having
made one solemn speech to his son. So far, Lord Kilcullen had been
successful in his manoeuvre; and he trusted that by making judicious
use of Mat Tierney, he might be able to stave off the evil hour for at
any rate a couple of days.

But he was mistaken. Lord Cashel was now too much in earnest to be
put off his purpose; he had been made too painfully aware that his
son's position was desperate, and that he must at once be saved by a
desperate effort, or given over to utter ruin. And, to tell the truth,
so heavy were the new debts of which he heard from day to day, so
insurmountable seemed the difficulties, that he all but repented that
he had not left him to his fate. The attempt, however, must again be
made; he was there, in the house, and could not be turned out; but
Lord Cashel determined that at any rate no time should be lost.

The two new arrivals made their appearance the next morning, greatly
to Lady Cashel's delight; she was perfectly satisfied with her son's
apology, and delighted to find that at any rate one of her expected
guests would not fail her in her need. The breakfast went over
pleasantly enough, and Kilcullen was asking Mat to accompany him into
the stables, to see what novelties they should find there, when Lord
Cashel spoiled the arrangement by saying,

"Could you spare me half-an-hour in the bookroom first, Kilcullen?"

This request, of course, could not be refused; and the father and son
walked off, leaving Mat Tierney to the charity of the ladies.

There was much less of flippant overbearing impudence now, about Lord
Kilcullen, much less of arrogance and insult from the son towards the
father, than there had been in the previous interview which has been
recorded. He seemed to be somewhat in dread, to be cowed, and ill at
ease; he tried, however, to assume his usual manner, and followed his
father into the book-room with an affected air of indifference, which
very ill concealed his real feelings.

"Kilcullen," began the earl, "I was very sorry to see Tierney with you
last night. It would have been much better that we should have been
alone together, at any rate for one morning. I suppose you are aware
that there is a great deal to be talked over between us?"

"I suppose there is," said the son; "but I couldn't well help bringing
the man, when he told me he was coming here."

"He didn't ask you to bring him, I suppose?--but we will not talk about
that. Will you do me the favour to inform me what your present plans
are?"

"My present plans, my lord? The name burst from his lips like a clap
of thunder, and Greif grew grave, for it meant something to him.

'And though I could say much more,' continued the mayor, 'I will
not, for silence is gold, as the burgomaster of Kalw says.

And so, gentlemen, we wish them happiness, a hundred years of life,
and a son as handsome as themselves for every tower there is on
Sigmundskron.

Sigmundskron hoch!'
The mayor had seemed to be exerting his full powers during the whole
speech, but an unparalleled experience in making noise had taught
him the art of reserving a final explosion in the depths of his
huge chest, which he knew could never fail to thrill his audience
with wonder and delight.

His last cheer broke out like the salute of a broadside of cannon, striking
the old walls like a battering-ram, till the panes rattled, echoing
up to tower and turret, and then reverberating and rolling away among
the distant trees, as though it were in haste to fulfil its mission and
tell the whole wide forest that Sigmundskron had a lord again, and
that Hilda was married to her true love at last.

'Sigmundskron hoch!' yelled the peasants in a wild attempt to rival their
leader, which not even their numbers could help them to do.

Then Greif took a tall glass from the table and gave it to Hilda, and
took another for himself, and the two stood up in the opening of
the Gothic window, the moonlight falling upon their happy faces and
upon the slender goblets in their hands.

You are totally regardless of the
appointments you make; and plainly show, that as you come here solely
for your own pleasure, you consider it needless to consult my wishes
or my comfort. Are you aware that you kept your mother and myself two
hours waiting for dinner yesterday?"

The pathos with which Lord Cashel terminated his speech--and it was one
the thrilling effect of which he intended to be overwhelming--almost
restored Lord Kilcullen to his accustomed effrontery.

"My lord," he said, "I did not consider myself of sufficient importance
to have delayed your dinner ten minutes."

"I have always endeavoured, Kilcullen, to show the same respect to you
in my house, which my father showed to me in his; but you do not allow
me the opportunity. But let that pass; we have more important things to
speak of. When last we were here together why did you not tell me the
whole truth?"

"What truth, my lord?"

"About your debts, Kilcullen: why did you conceal from me their full
amount? Why, at any rate, did you take pains to make me think them so
much less than they really are?"

"Conceal, my lord?--that is hardly fair, considering that I told you
expressly I could not give you any idea what was the amount I owed. I
concealed nothing; if you deceived yourself, the fault was not mine."

"You could not but have known that the claims against you were much
larger than I supposed them to be--double, I suppose. Good heaven!--why
in ten years more, at this rate, you would more than consume the fee
simple of the whole property! What can I say to you, Kilcullen, to make
you look on your own conduct in the proper light?"

"I think you have said enough for the purpose; you have told me to
marry, and I have consented to do so."

"Do you think, Kilcullen, you have spent the last eight years in a way
which it can please a father to contemplate? Do you think I can look
back on your conduct with satisfaction or content? And yet you have no
regret to express for the past--no promises to make for the future. I
fear it is all in vain. I fear that what I am doing what I am striving
to do, is now all in vain. I fear it is hopeless to attempt to recall
you from the horrid, reckless, wicked mode of life you have adopted."
The sombre mantle of expostulatory eloquence had now descended on the
earl, and he continued, turning full upon his victim, and raising and
lowering his voice with monotonous propriety.--"I fear it is to no
good purpose that I am subjecting your mother and myself to privation,
restraint, and inconvenience; that I am straining every nerve to place
you again in a position of respectability, a position suitable to my
fortune and your own rank. I am endeavouring to retrieve the desperate
extravagance--the--I must say--though I do not wish to hurt your
feelings, yet I must say, disgraceful ruin of your past career. And how
do you help me? what regret do you show? what promises of amendment do
you afford? You drive up to my hall-door at midnight with your boon
companion; you disturb the whole household at most unseasonable hours,
and subject my family to the same disreputable irregularity in which
you have yourself so long indulged. Can such doings, Kilcullen, give me
any hopes for the future? Can--"

"My lord--I am extremely sorry for the dinner: what can I say more? And
as for Mat Tierney, he is your own guest or her ladyship's--not mine.
It is my misfortune to have come in the same carriage with him, but
that is the extent of my offence."

"Well, Kilcullen; if you think your conduct has always been such as it
ought to be, it is of little use for me to bring up arguments to the
contrary."

"I don't think so, my lord. What can I say more? I have done
those things which I ought not to have done. Were I to confess my
transgressions for the hour together, I could not say more; except that
I have left undone the things which I ought to have done. Or, do you
want me to beat my breast and tear my hair?"

"I want you, Lord Kilcullen, to show some sense of decency--some filial
respect."

"Well, my lord, here I am, prepared to marry a wife of your own
choosing, and to set about the business this morning, if you please. I
thought you would have called that decent, filial, and respectable."

The earl could hardly gainsay this; but still he could not bring
himself to give over so soon the unusual pleasure of blowing up his
only son. It was so long since Lord Kilcullen had been regularly
in his power, and it might never occur again. So he returned from
consideration of the future to a further retrospect on the past.

"You certainly have played your cards most foolishly; you have thrown
away your money--rather, I should say, my money, in a manner which
nothing can excuse or palliate. You might have made the turf a source
of gratifying amusement; your income was amply sufficient to enable
you to do so; but you have possessed so little self-control, so little
judgment, so little discrimination, that you have allowed yourself
to be plundered by every blackleg, and robbed by every--everybody in
short, who chose to rob you. The same thing has been the case in all
your other amusements and pursuits--"

"Well, my lord, I confess it all; isn't that enough?"

"Enough, Kilcullen!" said the earl, in a voice of horrified
astonishment, "how enough?--how can anything be enough after such a
course--so wild, so mad, so ruinous!"

"For Heaven's sake, my lord, finish the list of my iniquities, or
you'll make me feel that I am utterly unfit to become my cousin's
husband."

"I fear you are--indeed I fear you are. Are the horses disposed of yet,
Kilcullen?"

"Indeed they are not, my lord; nor can I dispose of them. There is more
owing for them than they are worth; you may say they belong to the
trainer now."

"Is the establishment in Curzon Street broken up?"

"To tell the truth, not exactly; but I've no thoughts of returning
there. I'm still under rent for the house."

The cross-examination was continued for a considerable time--till the
earl had literally nothing more to say, and Lord Kilcullen was so
irritated that he told his father he would not stand it any longer.
Then they went into money affairs, and the earl spoke despondingly
about ten thousands and twenty thousands, and the viscount somewhat
flippantly of fifty thousands and sixty thousands; and this was
continued till the earl felt that his son was too deep in the mire to
be pulled out, and the son thought that, deep as he was there, it would
be better to remain and wallow in it than undergo so disagreeable a
process as that to which his father subjected him in extricating him
from it. It was settled, however, that Mr. Jervis, Lord Cashel's
agent, should receive full authority to deal summarily in all matters
respecting the horses and their trainers, the house in Curzon Street,
and its inhabitants, and all other appendages and sources of expense
which Lord Kilcullen had left behind him; and that he, Kilcullen,
should at once commence his siege upon his cousin's fortune. And on
this point the son bargained that, as it would be essentially necessary
that his spirits should be light and easy, he was not, during
the operation, to be subjected to any of his father's book-room
conversations: for this he stipulated as an absolute _sine quâ non_
in the negotiation, and the clause was at last agreed to, though not
without much difficulty.

Both father and son seemed to think that the offer should be made at
once. Lord Cashel really feared that his son would be arrested at Grey
Abbey, and he was determined to pay nothing further for him, unless
he felt secure of Fanny's fortune; and whatever were Lord Kilcullen's
hopes and fears as to his future lot, he was determined not to remain
long in suspense, as far as his projected marriage was concerned. He
was determined to do his best to accomplish it, for he would have done
anything to get the command of ready money; if he was not successful,
at any rate he need not remain in the purgatory of Grey Abbey. The
Queen's Bench would be preferable to that. He was not, however, very
doubtful; he felt but little confidence in the constancy of any woman's
affection, and a great deal in his own powers of fascination: he had
always been successful in his appeals to ladies' hearts, and did not
doubt of being so now, when the object of his adoration must, as he
thought, be so dreadfully in want of some excitement, something to
interest her. Any fool might have her now, thought he, and she can't
have any violent objection to being Lady Kilcullen for the present, and
Lady Cashel in due time. He felt, however, something like remorse at
the arrangement to which he was a party; it was not that he was about
to make a beautiful creature, his own cousin, miserable for life, by
uniting her to a spendthrift, a _roué_, and a gambler--such was the
natural lot of women in the higher ranks of life--but he felt that
he was robbing her of her money. He would have thought it to be no
disgrace to carry her off had another person been her guardian. She
would then have had fair play, and it would be the guardian's fault if
her fortune were not secure. But she had no friend now to protect her:
it was her guardian himself who was betraying her to ruin.

However, the money must be had, and Lord Kilcullen was not long in
quieting his conscience.

"Tierney," said Kilcullen, meeting his friend after his escape from the
book-room; "you are not troubled with a father now, I believe;--do you
recollect whether you ever had one?"

"Well, I can't say I remember just at present," said Mat; "but I
believe I had a sort of one, once."

"I'm a more dutiful son than you," said the other; "I never can forget
mine. I have no doubt an alligator on the banks of the Nile is a
fearful creature--a shark when one's bathing, or a jungle tiger when
one's out shooting, ought, I'm sure, to be avoided; but no creature
yet created, however hungry, or however savage, can equal in ferocity
a governor who has to shell out his cash! I've no wish for a
_tête-à-tête_ with any bloody-minded monster; but I'd sooner meet a
starved hyena, single-handed in the desert, than be shut up for another
hour with my Lord Cashel in that room of his on the right-hand side
of the hall. If you hear of my having beat a retreat from Grey Abbey,
without giving you or any one else warning of my intention, you will
know that I have lacked courage to comply with a second summons to
those gloomy realms. If I receive another invite such as that I got
this morning, I am off."

Lady Cashel's guests came on the day appointed; the carriages were
driven up, one after another, in quick succession, about an hour before
dinner-time; and, as her ladyship's mind became easy on the score of
disappointments, it was somewhat troubled as to the multitude of people
to be fed and entertained. Murray had not yet forgiven the injury
inflicted on him when the family dinner was kept waiting for Lord
Kilcullen, and Richards was still pouting at her own degraded position.
The countess had spent the morning pretending to make arrangements,
which were in fact all settled by Griffiths; and when she commenced
the operation of dressing herself, she declared she was so utterly
exhausted by what she had gone through during the last week, as to be
entirely unfit to entertain her company. Even the idea of Lotze, that the
atoms (in themselves different) are not really the final elements of
matter, but consist of still more simple but likewise different
elements, seems to us more a decoration than an extension of the
limits at which our perception has arrived; we stand before a double
door, but find both doors locked.

We agree with DuBois-Reymond, when he declares, in his before-mentioned
lecture, the impossibility of perceiving the last elements of the
{146} world, matter and force, to be the other limit of our knowledge
of nature which, together with the impossibility of the explanation of
the origin of sensation and consciousness, remains forever
fixed.

Likewise, the peculiar modification which G. Th. Fechner gives to the
theory of the last elements of the world, cannot escape the charge of
leaving the problem of the world scientifically just as unsolved as
before.

Fechner not only finds, as we have already mentioned, the difference
between the organic and the inorganic in the difference of the mutual
motions, but he also finds that the character of organic motions
is exactly the same as that which the bodies of the universe have
among themselves in their motions.

Thus he distinguishes the _cosmorganic_ motion, which is performed
in the whole of the universe, and the _molecular-organic_ motion, which
we observe in the single organisms of the earth; he makes God the
personal, self-conscious soul of this cosmical organism; and, in using
the law of the tendency to stability, with which he completes the
Darwinian selection theory, asserts that the organic in the whole of the
universe, as well as in the narrow sphere of single bodies on the
earth, is the first thing from which the inorganic was separated
and became gradually fixed.

Thus, in his opinion, the problem which up to the present has occupied
investigators,--namely, how did the organic originate from the
inorganic?

--would have to be reversed to, how did the inorganic originate
from the organic?

Preyer would also reach a similar result with his above-mentioned theory
of the identity of life and motion. For according to this theory, the
living would {147} be as old and common as motion, and the organic
but the dregs of life.

We may, therefore, say that, without regard to the fact that neither
pantheism nor theism will ever harmonize with Fechner's solution
of this contrast which gives to God exactly the same position in
the world as the soul has in the body, natural science will certainly
treat with great reserve a cosmo-metaphysical system which so fully
upsets all results of exact investigations into the history of
origin and development, and has no other proof for itself than the
identity, or at least the similarity, of the abstract formula
according to which the molecular motions of organisms and the
cosmical motions are performed.

Although we thus have to deny to the proof of this identity or similarity
the weight which Fechner gives to it, nevertheless it has still no small
merit, since it throws new and clearer light upon the old thought,
always attractive and yet so difficult to present,--of a macrocosmus
and a microcosmus, which has been often enough treated with so much
natural mysticism.

Thus, in our inquiry into the development of things, we have
successively arrived at four points, each of which urged us to make
the confession that here something new came into existence, which
can not be explained from the preceding conditions of its being;
these four points were: the origin of self-consciousness, the origin
of sensation and consciousness, the origin of life, and finally the
elements of the universe.

Arrived at the last problem, we see the confession of our ignorance
increased to the still more comprehensive confession that we are
really not able _fully_ to explain anything in the world.

We are able to perceive a uniformity of law in the states and {148}
changes of things, and to abstract therefrom common laws of nature; we
can observe single objects, and perceive their states and changes
in their connection with one another and in their dependence on
those laws.

But we are not able to explain scientifically either the origin of
these laws or the last physical causes of the qualities of things,
which follow these laws.

We should reach the same result if we had not started from the
objective world of the existing, as we were induced to do by our
subject, but from theoretical investigations.

Here also we should immediately find ourselves in a world of relations
between subject and object, of a regularly arranged abundance of
subjective and objective qualities, states and processes, of which
the objective only come to our knowledge through the medium of the
subjective, and of regularly arranged laws to which both the
subjective and the objective are commonly subordinate.

But why just these and no other qualities of the subject and of objects
exist, why just these and no other laws reign, why just this and
no other relation takes place between the perceiving subject and
the perceived object, would remain unanswered as before.

Amidst a generation which is so fond of reveling in the thought of
an extension of all the limits of our knowledge, and is inclined
to proclaim as true that which it wishes and hopes, investigators
are not wholly wanting who very decidedly express their consciousness
of these limits of our knowledge, and at the same time combine it
with the most logical scientific reasoning and investigation.

Even when in detail they reach these limits from the most varying
points of view, and draw {149} them in different directions, they
all agree in confirming the principle that it is one of the first
and most indispensable conditions of successful investigation always
to be conscious of the limits of its perception.

Voices which remind mankind of these limits, are perhaps less popular,
for man prefers to be reminded of the advances rather than of the
limitations of his knowledge; but they are on that account the more
worthy of our gratitude, for they keep us on the solid ground of the
attainable from which alone sure progress in knowledge is possible.
Among such philosophers we name Ulrici, and especially Lotze;
among scientists, in the first place, two pioneers in their
departments--namely, in the department of the mechanism of heat,
Robert von Mayer--compare his "Bemerkungen über das mechanische
Aequivalent der Wärme" ("Remarks on the Mechanical Equivalent of
Heat"), and "Ueber nothwendige Consequenzen und Inconsequenzen der
Wärmemechanik" ("Necessary Consequences and Inconsequences of the
Mechanism of Heat"), Stuttgart, Cotta;--and in the realm of the
development of organisms, K.

E. von Baer--compare his "Reden und kleinere Aufsätze" ("Addresses and
Essays"), 2 vols., St. Petersburg, 1864 and 1876.

In this connection we have already mentioned the name of DuBois-Reymond.
Otto Köstlin published two remarkable dissertations in this direction--"Ueber
die Grenzen der Naturwissenschaft" ("Limits of Natural Science"), Tübingen,
Fues, 2d ed., 1874, and "Ueber natürliche Entwicklung" ("Natural
Development"), ib., 1875.

In the latter he especially cautions against hastily confounding
the laws of development of planets, development of the organic
kingdom, and development {150} of the individual organisms.

Recently, Wigand, in the second volume of his work already frequently
mentioned, attempts, with an extreme energy which does too little
justice to the representation and investigation of the still unsolved
problems, to formulate the limits of the knowable.

A contrary extreme, and of its kind a still more one-sided corrective
of this too great stability, we have in those investigators who,
by reason of the great progress which has been made in the realm
of the theoretical knowledge of nature, allow themselves to be drawn
on to the hope of still explaining all states and processes in the
world--the spiritual and the ethic processes as well as the
physical--from the pure mechanism of atoms; and who see in that
which thus far has been mechanically explained, the only and the
infallible way of explaining all that is still obscure.

They call this view the _mechanical view of the world_; and, as "monism,"
put it in opposition to the "vitalistic, teleological, and dualistic
view of the world." In order to obtain a correct view of this standpoint,
we quote from Häckel's "Natural History of Creation", Vol.

I, page 23, the following passage: "By the theory of descent we are
for the first time enabled to conceive of the unity of nature in
such a manner that a mechanico-causal explanation of even the most
intricate organic phenomena, for example, the origin and structure
of the organs of sense, is no more difficult (in a general way)
than is the mechanical explanation of any physical process; as, for
example, earthquakes, the courses of the wind, or the currents of
the ocean.

We thus arrive at the extremely important conviction that _all natural
bodies_ which are known to us are _equally {151} animated_, that the
distinction which has been made between animate and inanimate
bodies does _not_ exist.

When a stone is thrown into the air, and falls to earth according to
definite laws, or when in a solution of salt a crystal is formed,
the phenomenon is neither more nor less a mechanical manifestation
of life than the growth and flowering of plants, than the propagation
of animals or the activity of their senses, than the perception or the
formation of thought in man." Here crystallization, organic life,
sensation, and formation of thought, are expressly put in one line of
mechanism with the falling of a stone.

In the following section we will have occasion to discuss this
view as a _view of the world_; but we believe that the presentation
of this idea, and the exclusive vindication of it as a complete
view of the world, needs just here, where we still stand on the
ground of the philosophy of natural perception, some critical
sifting.

In the realm of material nature, _mechanical_ explanation and general
explanation is directly identical; _i.e._, a process of nature remains
obscure so long and so far as its mechanism is not yet perceived, and
in the same degree as its mechanism is perceived, the process also is
explained. The uniformity of law in the occurrence of events according
to the causal principle in the realm of material nature, can be
approached by us in no other form than in that of mechanism, provided
we understand by mechanism an activity according to law and which can
be mathematically estimated as to size and number. So far, therefore,
every scientific investigator in the knowledge of material nature
takes his place on the standpoint of a mechanical view of the world.
{152}
But here we have gone to the full extent to which we are justified
in taking a mechanical view of the world, and have fixed its limits
in its own proper realm--the realm of the scientific perception of
the material world; even if we do not join with Wigand in resigning
scientific inquiry in that direction, and express the expectation
that these limits are not fixed and not to be designated in advance,
but will be moved farther and farther, and that not only in regard
to the knowledge of the quantity of phenomena (which even Wigand,
as a scientific investigator, naturally admits), but also in regard
to their quality.

In our researches hitherto we have often met such limits. We have found
that in the realm of the material world such important phenomena and
processes as life are at present not yet fully explained. By the
mechanical view of the world, we have been led back to the last
elements and to the most elementary forces of matter, but have been
convinced that we are no longer able to find them with scientific
certainty, and that consequently not a single quality of material
existence is really explained and traced back to its last material
causes, to say nothing of the transcendental causes which are
entirely inaccessible to our exact scientific knowledge.

Now there is another realm of existence, just as large as and, according
to its value, still larger than, that of the material world, which, not
on account of its scientific inaccessibility, but in conformity
with its own peculiar nature, entirely withdraws itself from the mechanical
view. It is the realm of _psychical life_; and, still more decidedly
and more evidently, the _realm of mind_. As far as our observations
go, the law of {153} causality reigns here also, and here also
nothing takes place without a cause.

But as here the _realm_ in which the causal law reigns is no longer
material nature, so even the _form_ in which it is active is no
longer that of mechanism. For we certainly cannot understand mechanical
effect to be anything else than an effect of something material
upon something material, whose uniformity of law can be exactly
estimated mathematically as to size and number.

Now if the application of mechanism to the psychical and spiritual realm
does not express anything except the certainly quite insidious
idea that here also causality reigns, it is nothing else but the
substitution of another idea for the word mechanism--an idea which
it never had in the entire use of language up to this time, and by
the substitution of which the proof for a mechanism of the mind is
not given, but surreptitiously obtained in a manner similar to the
before-mentioned attempt of Preyer, surreptitiously to obtain the
proof for the origin of life.

But if the mechanical explanation of the functions of the mind really
means that they also consist in an effect of the material upon something
material, and that this effect can be mathematically estimated as to
size and number, it is an assertion which has first to be proven, but
which cannot be proven and cannot be allowed even as an hypothesis,
as a problem for investigation, because it contradicts our whole
experience.

And it contradicts not only the conclusions drawn from most natural
appearances, which, as is well known, are deceitful and even tell
us that the sun goes around the earth, but it contradicts the
philosophical analysis just as much and even still more directly
and decidedly than {154} the direct impression--as became clear to
us at the lowest point of contact between the material and the
psychical, viz., at sensation, when we showed the impossibility of
scientifically explaining the origin of sensation.

It is easy to see what facts made it altogether possible to produce
such a materialistic psychology and to give it at the first superficial
view a certain appearance of truth; but it will not be difficult
to detect its want of truth.

According to our whole experience, the human mind is bound to the body;
its proper activity, its whole communication with the material and
immaterial world outside of it, even its whole mutual intercourse
with the minds of fellow-beings, is performed by means of bodily
functions which, as such, are subordinate to mechanism.

Therefore "physiological psychology" certainly belongs to the most
interesting of the branches of science which at present enjoy
special care, and works in this realm, like those of Wundt, are
worthy of the greatest attention.

Now if these points of contact once exist between the material and the
psychical and spiritual processes, so that material functions causally
influence psychical and spiritual ones, and psychical and spiritual
functions similarly influence material ones, there must also exist between
the laws of material processes and those of psychical and spiritual
functions a relation which makes possible such a mutual effect, and
we must be able to abstract from it the existence of a common higher
law of which on the one side the material laws, and on the other
the psychical and spiritual, are but partial laws.

Precisely here lie the indications which appear to favor materialism
in psychology.

But it is only an appearance. For, from the acknowledgment {155} and
scientific investigation of a reciprocal action, to an identification
of the two factors which act upon one another, is still an infinite
step.

If science is not even able to identify material motion and sensation,
still less can it identify material motion and the spiritual and
ethic activities.

When this is done, it is done only in consequence of the same confounding
of condition and cause which we had to expose on the occasion of the
assertion of the possibility of explaining the origin of life or of
sensation, and of consciousness or of self-consciousness. But we here
also willingly admit that the realm in which causality reigns in the
form of mechanism, aims at being the support, foundation, and instrument
of another realm where causality still reigns, but mechanism ceases. How
far investigation may still proceed in the direction of those interesting
points and lines where both realms touch one another in causal reciprocal
action, we do not know. We are hardly able to indicate the direction in
which the investigation must proceed, and this direction seems to
be assigned to it by the idea of _Auslösung_.[8] The idea of
_Auslösung_, which plays such an {156} important _rôle_ in physics,
seems to be still fruitful for the knowledge of psycho-physical
life: bodily functions _lösen aus_ spiritual ones, spiritual functions
bodily ones.

But so much the more clearly does this theory show the limits of
mechanism: mechanism reigns in the world of bodies from the
_Auslösungen_ and to the _Auslösungen_, with which the mind induces
the body to activity, and the body the mind; beyond these limits
causality still reigns, but no longer mechanism.

Now if thus the mechanical view of the world has within its own most
proper realm--the realm of material phenomena--its limits, even
if they are capable of being moved farther; and if it is without
any scientific acceptance in the realm of soul and mind: its
usurpations reach the highest possible degree when it pretends to
{157} explain the last causes of things.

For from its very nature it follows that it is only able to explain
the reciprocal action of material things among themselves, when
these things in their finalities, or the causes of their qualities
and conditions, are already present, and the laws which they follow
are already active.

As to the origin of those qualities or their causes, and of these laws,
this view leaves us entirely in the dark.

* * * * * {158}

CHAPTER II.

METAPHYSICAL CONCLUSIONS DRAWN FROM THE DARWINIAN THEORIES.

§ 1. _Elimination of the Idea of Design in the World.--Monism._
From this mechanical view of the world, quite a peculiar conclusion has
been recently drawn--not by Darwin, who does not give any opinion at
all about the mechanical view of the world, as such, or about its
extension and influence, nor, indeed, by Darwinians, not even by
all followers of a mechanical view of the world, but only by a part
of them; namely, by those who have in a high degree attracted to
themselves the attention of reading people.

This conclusion is nothing less than the _elimination of the idea of
design in nature_. This phenomenon demands our attention. Heretofore,
the proof of plan, design, and end in nature, at large and in detail,
was looked upon as the most beautiful blossom and fruit of a thoughtful
contemplation of nature; it was the great and beautiful common property,
in the enjoyment of which the direct, the scientific, and the religious
contemplation of nature peacefully participated. Now this view is to be
given up forever, in consequence of nothing else than Darwin's selection
theory. With an energy--we may say with a passionateness and confidence
of victory--such as we were accustomed to see only in the most
advanced advocates of materialism, Ludwig {159} Büchner, D.

F. Strauss, Häckel, Oskar Schmidt, Helmholtz, the editor of the
"Ausland" and some of his associates, and our often-mentioned
"Anonymus,"--in a common attack, assail every idea of a _conformity
to an end_ in nature, every idea of a goal toward which the development
at large and individually strives; in a word, the whole category
of _teleology_.[9]
In order to be just in our judgment, we shall have to let the
advocates of this view speak for themselves;--the advocates of
_Dysteleology_, as Häckel, who is so extremely productive in forming
new exotic words, calls it; or of _Aposkopiology_, as Ebrard, in
his "Apologetik" ("Apologetics"), correcting the etymology, {160}
somewhat pedantically calls it; or of _Teleophoby_, as it is called
by K.

E. von Baer, in humorous irony.

The anonymous author of the book called "The Unconscious from the
Standpoint of Physiology and Descent Theory", asserts that, while
the descent theory but puts the teleological principle in question
by withdrawing the ground for a positive proof--an assertion which
we certainly have to reject most decidedly (compare Part II, Book
II, Chap.

I, § 2-§ 6)--the selection theory directly rejects it. Natural selection,
he says, solves the seemingly unsolvable problem of explaining the
conformity to the end in view, as result, without taking it as an
aiding principle.

     And Helmholtz says: "Darwin's theory shows how conformity to the
                   end in the formation of organisms can also
                   originate without any intermingling of an intelligence
                   by the blind administration of a law of nature."
                   
                   Häckel really revels in these ideas. He says (Nat.

Hist. of Creat., Vol. I, p. 19): "These optimistic views [of the
much-talked-of purposiveness of nature or of the much-talked-of
beneficence of the Creator] have, unfortunately, as little real
foundation as the favorite phrase, 'the moral order of the universe,'
which is illustrated in an ironical way by the history of all
nations....

If we contemplate the common life and the mutual relations between
plants and animals (man included), we shall find everywhere, and
at all times, the very opposite of that kindly and peaceful social
life which the goodness of the Creator ought to have prepared for
his creatures--we shall rather find everywhere a pitiless, most
embittered _Struggle of All against All_.

Nowhere in nature, no matter where we turn our eyes, does that {161}
idyllic peace, celebrated by the poets, exist; we find everywhere
a struggle and a striving to annihilate neighbors and competitors.

Passion and selfishness--conscious or unconscious--is everywhere the
motive force of life....

Man in this respect certainly forms no exception to the rest
of the animal world."

And on page 33: "In the usual dualistic or teleological (vital)
conception of the universe, organic nature is regarded as the
purposely executed production of a Creator working according to a
definite plan.

Its adherents see in every individual species of animal and plant an
'embodied creative thought,' the material expression of a _definite
first cause_ (causa finalis), acting for a set purpose.

They must necessarily assume supernatural (not mechanical) processes
of the origin of organisms....

On the other hand, the theory of development carried out by Darwin,
must, if carried out logically, lead to the monistic or mechanical
(causal) conception of the universe.

In opposition to the dualistic or teleological conception of nature,
our theory considers organic as well as inorganic bodies to be the
necessary products of natural forces. It does not see in every individual
species of animal and plant the embodied thought of a personal
Creator, but the expression for the time being of a mechanical
process of development of matter, the expression of a necessarily
active cause, that is, of a mechanical cause (causa efficiens).

Where teleological Dualism seeks the arbitrary thoughts of a
capricious Creator in miracles of creation, causal Monism finds in
the process of development the necessary effects of eternal immutable
laws of nature."

Häckel's "Anthropogeny" also is replete with attacks upon a
teleological {162} view of nature, which leave nothing wanting in
distinctness and coarseness.

And that I lay
in bed all day, devising iniquity in my dreams? Come now, tell the
truth, and shame the devil; if I am the devil, I know people have made
me out to be."

"Why, really, Adolphus, I never calculated how your days and nights
were spent. But if I am to tell the truth, I fear some of them might
have been passed to better advantage."

"Which of us, Fanny, mightn't, with truth, say the same of ourselves?"

"Of course, none of us," said Fanny; "don't think I'm judging you; you
asked me the question,--and I suppose you wanted an answer."

"I did; I wanted a true one--for though you may never have given
yourself much trouble to form an opinion about me, I am anxious that
you should do so now. I don't want to trouble you with what is done and
past; I don't want to make it appear that I have not been thoughtless
and imprudent--wicked and iniquitous, if you are fond of strong terms;
neither do I want to trouble you with confessing all my improprieties,
that I may regularly receive absolution. But I do wish you to believe
that I have done nothing which should exclude me from your future good
opinion; from your friendship and esteem."

"I am not of an unforgiving temperament, even had you done anything for
me to forgive: but I am not aware that you have."

"No; nothing for you to forgive, in the light of an offence to
yourself; but much, perhaps, to prevent your being willing to regard
me as a personal friend. We're not only first cousins, Fanny, but are
placed more closely together than cousins usually are. You have neither
father nor mother; now, also, you have no brother," and he took her
hands in his own as he said so. "Who should be a brother to you, if I
am not? who, at any rate, should you look on as a friend, if not on me?
Nobody could be better, I believe, than Selina; but she is stiff, and
cold--unlike you in everything. I should be so happy if I could be the
friend--the friend of friends you spoke of the other evening; if I
could fill the place which must be empty near your heart. I can never
be this to you, if you believe that anything in my past life has been
really disgraceful. It is for this reason that I want to know what you
truly think of me. I won't deny that I am anxious you should think well
of me:--well, at any rate for the present, and the future, and
charitably as regards the past."

Fanny had been taken much by surprise by the turn her cousin had given
to the conversation; and was so much affected, that, before he had
finished, she was in tears. She had taken her hand out of his, to put
her handkerchief to her eyes, and as she did not immediately answer, he
continued:

"I shall probably be much here for some time to come--such, at least,
are my present plans; and I hope that while I am, we shall become
friends: not such friends, Fanny, as you and Judith O'Joscelyn--friends
only of circumstance, who have neither tastes, habits, or feelings
in common--friends whose friendship consists in living in the same
parish, and meeting each other once or twice a week; but friends in
reality--friends in confidence--friends in mutual dependence--friends
in love--friends, dear Fanny, as cousins situated as we are should be
to each other."

Fanny's heart was very full, for she felt how much, how desperately,
she wanted such a friend as Kilcullen described. How delightful it
would be to have such a friend, and to find him in her own cousin! The
whole family, hitherto, were so cold to her--so uncongenial. The earl
she absolutely disliked; she loved her aunt, but it was only because
she was her aunt--she couldn't like her; and though she loved Lady
Selina, and, to a degree, admired her, it was like loving a marble
figure. There was more true feeling in what Kilcullen had now said to
her, than in all that had fallen from the whole family for the four
years she had lived at Grey Abbey, and she could not therefore but
close on the offer of his affection.

"Shall we be such friends, then?" said he; "or, after all, am I too
bad? Have I too much of the taint of the wicked world to be the friend
of so pure a creature as you?"

"Oh no, Adolphus; I'm sure I never thought so," said she. "I never
judged you, and indeed I am not disposed to do so now. I'm too much in
want of kindness to reject yours,--even were I disposed to do so, which
I am not."

"Then, Fanny, we are to be friends--true, loving, trusting friends?"

"Oh, yes!" said Fanny. "I am really, truly grateful for your affection
and kindness. I know how precious they are, and I will value them
accordingly."

Again Lord Kilcullen took her hand, and pressed it in his; and then he
kissed it, and told her she was his own dear cousin Fanny; and then
recommended her to go and dress, which she did. He sat himself down for
a quarter of an hour, ruminating, and then also went off to dress; but,
during that quarter of an hour, very different ideas passed through his
mind, than such as those who knew him best would have given him credit
for.

In the first place, he thought that he really began to feel an
affection for his cousin Fanny, and to speculate whether it were
absolutely within the verge of possibility that he should marry
her--retrieve his circumstances--treat her well, and live happily for
the rest of his life as a respectable nobleman.

For two or three minutes the illusion remained, till it was banished by
retrospection. It was certainly possible that he should marry her: it
was his full intention to do so: but as to retrieving his circumstances
and treating her well!--the first was absolutely impossible--the other
nearly so; and as to his living happily at Grey Abbey as a family man,
he yawned as he felt how impossible it would be that he should spend a
month in such a way, let alone a life. But then Fanny Wyndham was so
beautiful, so lively, so affectionate, so exactly what a cousin and a
wife ought to be: he could not bear to think that all his protestations
of friendship and love had been hypocritical; that he could only look
upon her as a gudgeon, and himself as a bigger fish, determined to
swallow her! Yet such must be his views regarding her. He departed to
dress, absolutely troubled in his conscience.

And what were Fanny's thoughts about her cousin? She was much surprised
and gratified, but at the same time somewhat flustered and overwhelmed,
by the warmth and novelty of his affection. However, she never for a
moment doubted his truth towards her, or had the slightest suspicion of
his real object. Her chief thought was whether she could induce him to
be a mediator for her, between Lord Cashel and Lord Ballindine.

During the next two days he spoke to her a good deal about her
brother--of whom, by-the-bye, he had really known nothing. He
contrived, however, to praise him as a young man of much spirit and
great promise; then he spoke of her own large fortune, asked her what
her wishes were about its investment, and told her how happy he would
be to express those wishes at once to Lord Cashel, and to see that they
were carried out. Once or twice she had gradually attempted to lead the
conversation to Lord Ballindine, but Kilcullen was too crafty, and had
prevented her; and she had not yet sufficient courage to tell him at
once what was so near her heart.

"Fanny," said Lady Selina, one morning, about a week after the general
arrival of the company at Grey Abbey, and when some of them had taken
their departure, "I am very glad to see you have recovered your
spirits: I know you have made a great effort, and I appreciate and
admire it."

"Indeed, Selina, I fear you are admiring me too soon. I own I have
been amused this week past, and, to a certain degree, pleased; but I
fear you'll find I shall relapse. There's been no radical reform; my
thoughts are all in the same direction as they were."

"But the great trial in this world is to behave well and becomingly
in spite of oppressive thoughts: and it always takes a struggle to do
that, and that struggle you've made. I hope it may lead you to feel
that you may be contented and in comfort without having everything
which you think necessary to your happiness. I'm sure I looked forward
to this week as one of unmixed trouble and torment; but I was very
wrong to do so. It has given me a great deal of unmixed satisfaction."

"I'm very glad of that, Selina, but what was it? I'm sure it could not
have come from poor Mrs Ellison, or the bishop's wife; and you seemed
to me to spend all your time in talking to them. Virtue, they say, is
its own reward: I don't know what other satisfaction you can have had
from them."

"In the first place, it has given me great pleasure to see that you
were able to exert yourself in company, and that the crowd of people
did not annoy you: but I have chiefly been delighted by seeing that you
and Adolphus are such good friends. You must think, Fanny, that I am
anxious about an only brother--especially when we have all had so much
cause to be anxious about him; and don't you think it must be a delight
to me to find that he is able to take pleasure in your society? I
should be doubly pleased, doubly delighted, if I could please him
myself. But I have not the vivacity to amuse him."

"What nonsense, Selina! Don't say that."

"But it's true, Fanny; I have not; and Grey Abbey has become
distasteful to him because we are all sedate, steady people. Perhaps
some would call us dull, and heavy; and I have grieved that it should
be so, though I cannot alter my nature; but you are so much the
contrary--there is so much in your character like his own, before he
became fond of the world, that I feel he can become attached to and
fond of you; and I am delighted to see that he thinks so himself. What
do you think of him, now that you have seen more of him than you ever
did before?"

"Indeed," said Fanny, "I like him very much."

"He is very clever, isn't he? He might have been anything if he had
given himself fair play. He seems to have taken greatly to you."

"Oh yes; we are great friends:" and then Fanny paused--"so great
friends," she continued, looking somewhat gravely in Lady Selina's
face, "that I mean to ask the greatest favour of him that I could ask
of anyone: one I am sure I little dreamed I should ever ask of him."

"What is it, Fanny? Is it a secret?"

"Indeed it is, Selina; but it's a secret I will tell you. I mean to
tell him all I feel about Lord Ballindine, and I mean to ask him to see
him for me. Adolphus has offered to be a brother to me, and I mean to
take him at his word."

Lady Selina turned very pale, and looked very grave as she replied,

"That is not giving him a brother's work, Fanny. A brother should
protect you from importunity and insult, from injury and wrong; and
that, I am sure, Adolphus would do: but no brother would consent to
offer your hand to a man who had neglected you and been refused, and
who, in all probability, would now reject you with scorn if he has the
opportunity--or if not that, will take you for your money's sake. That,
Fanny, is not a brother's work; and it is an embassy which I am sure
Adolphus will not undertake. If you take my advice you will not ask
him."

As Lady Selina finished speaking she walked to the door, as if
determined to hear no reply from her cousin; but, as she was leaving
the room, she fancied that she heard her sobbing, and her heart
softened, and she again turned towards her and said, "God knows, Fanny,
I do not wish to be severe or ill-natured to you; I would do anything
for your comfort and happiness, but I cannot bear to think that
you should"--Lady Selina was puzzled for a word to express her
meaning--"that you should forget yourself," and she attempted to put
her arm round Fanny's waist.

But she was mistaken; Fanny was not sobbing, but was angry; and what
Selina now said about her forgetting herself, did not make her less so.

"No," she said, withdrawing herself from her cousin's embrace and
standing erect, while her bosom was swelling with indignation: "I
want no affection from you, Selina, that is accompanied by so much
disapprobation. You don't wish to be severe, only you say that I am
likely to forget myself. Forget myself!" and Fanny threw back her
beautiful head, and clenched her little fists by her side: "The other
day you said 'disgrace myself', and I bore it calmly then; but I will
not any longer bear such imputations. I tell you plainly, Selina, I
will not forget myself, nor will I be forgotten. Nor will I submit to
whatever fate cold, unfeeling people may doom me, merely because I am a
woman and alone. I will not give up Lord Ballindine, if I have to walk
to his door and tell him so. And were I to do so, I should never think
that I had forgotten myself."

"Listen to me, Fanny," said Selina.

"Wait a moment," continued Fanny, "I have listened enough: it is
my turn to speak now. For one thing I have to thank you: you have
dispelled the idea that I could look for help to anyone in this family.
I will not ask your brother to do anything for me which you think so
disgraceful. I will not subject him to the scorn with which you choose
to think my love will be treated by him who loved me so well. That you
should dare to tell me that he who did so much for my love should now
scorn it!--Oh, Selina, that I may live to forget that you said those
words!" and Fanny, for a moment, put her handkerchief to her eyes--but
it was but for a moment. "However," she continued, "I will now act for
myself. As you think I might forget myself, I tell you I will do it in
no clandestine way. I will write to Lord Ballindine, and I will show
my letter to my uncle. The whole house shall read it if they please. I
will tell Lord Ballindine all the truth--and if Lord Cashel turns me
from his house, I shall probably find some friend to receive me, who
may still believe that I have not forgotten myself." And Fanny Wyndham
sailed out of the room.

Lady Selina, when she saw that she was gone, sat down on the sofa and
took her book. She tried to make herself believe that she was going to
read; but it was no use: the tears dimmed her eyes, and she put the
book down.

The same evening the countess sent for Selina into her boudoir, and,
with a fidgety mixture of delight and surprise, told her that she had a
wonderful piece of good news to communicate to her.

"I declare, my dear," she said, "it's the most delightful thing I've
heard for years and years; and it's just exactly what I had planned
myself, only I never told anybody. Dear me; it makes me so happy!"

"What is it, mamma?"

"Your papa has been talking to me since dinner, my love, and he tells
me Adolphus is going to marry Fanny Wyndham."

"Going to marry whom?" said Lady Selina, almost with a shout.

"Fanny, I say: it's the most delightful match in the world: it's just
what ought to be done. I suppose they won't have the wedding before
summer; though May is a very nice month. Let me see; it only wants
three weeks to May."

"Mamma, what are you talking about?--you're dreaming."

"Dreaming, my dear? I'm not dreaming at all: it's a fact. Who'd've
thought of all this happening so soon, out of this party, which gave
us so much trouble! However, I knew your father was right. I said all
along that he was in the right to ask the people."

"Mamma," said Lady Selina, gravely, "listen to me: calmly now, and
attentively. I don't know what papa has told you; but I tell you Fanny
does not dream of marrying Adolphus. He has never asked her, and if he
did she would never accept him. Fanny is more than ever in love with
Lord Ballindine."

The countess opened her eyes wide, and looked up into her daughter's
face, but said nothing.

"Tell me, mamma, as nearly as you can recollect, what it is papa has
said to you, that, if possible, we may prevent mischief and misery.
Papa couldn't have said that Fanny had accepted Adolphus?"

"He didn't say exactly that, my dear; but he said that it was his wish
they should be married; that Adolphus was very eager for it, and that
Fanny had received his attentions and admiration with evident pleasure
and satisfaction. And so she has, my dear; you couldn't but have seen
that yourself."

"Well, mamma, what else did papa say?"

"Why, he said just what I'm telling you: that I wasn't to be surprised
if we were called on to be ready for the wedding at a short notice;
or at any rate to be ready to congratulate Fanny. He certainly didn't
say she had accepted him. But he said he had no doubt about it; and
I'm sure, from what was going on last week, I couldn't have any
doubt either. But he told me not to speak to anyone about it yet;
particularly not to Fanny; only, my dear, I couldn't help, you know,
talking it over with you;" and the countess leaned back in her chair,
very much exhausted with the history she had narrated.

"Now, mamma, listen to me. It is not many hours since Fanny told me she
was unalterably determined to throw herself at Lord Ballindine's feet."

"Goodness gracious me, how shocking!" said the countess.

"She even said that she would ask Adolphus to be the means of bringing
Lord Ballindine back to Grey Abbey."

"Lord have mercy!" said the countess.

"I only tell you this, mamma, to show you how impossible it is that
papa should be right."

"What are we to do, my dear? Oh, dear, there'll be such a piece of
work! What a nasty thing Fanny is. I'm sure she's been making love to
Adolphus all the week!"

"No, mamma, she has not. Don't be unfair to Fanny. If there is anyone
in fault it is Adolphus; but, as you say, what shall we do to prevent
further misunderstanding? I think I had better tell papa the whole."

And so she did, on the following morning. But she was too late; she did
not do it till after Lord Kilcullen had offered and had been refused.


XXXII.  HOW LORD KILCULLEN FARES IN HIS WOOING


About twelve o'clock the same night, Lord Kilcullen and Mat Tierney
were playing billiards, and were just finishing their last game: the
bed-candles were lighted ready for them, and Tierney was on the point
of making the final hazard.

"So you're determined to go to-morrow, Mat?" said Kilcullen.

"Oh, yes, I'll go to-morrow: your mother'll take me for a second Paddy
Rea, else," said Mat.

"Who the deuce was Paddy Rea?"

"Didn't you ever hear of Paddy Rea?--Michael French of Glare
Abbey--he's dead now, but he was alive enough at the time I'm telling
you of, and kept the best house in county Clare--well, he was coming
down on the Limerick coach, and met a deuced pleasant, good-looking,
talkative sort of a fellow a-top of it. They dined and got a tumbler
of punch together at Roscrea; and when French got down at Bird Hill,
he told his acquaintance that if he ever found himself anywhere near
Ennis, he'd be glad to see him at Glare Abbey. He was a hospitable sort
of a fellow, and had got into a kind of way of saying the same thing
to everybody, without meaning anything except to be civil--just as
I'd wish a man good morning. Well, French thought no more about the
man, whose name he didn't even know; but about a fortnight afterwards,
a hack car from Ennis made its appearance at Glare Abbey, and the
talkative traveller, and a small portmanteau, had soon found their
way into the hail. French was a good deal annoyed, for he had some
fashionables in the house, but he couldn't turn the man out; so he
asked his name, and introduced Paddy Rea to the company. How long do
you think he stayed at Glare Abbey?"

"Heaven only knows!--Three months."

"Seventeen years!" said Mat. "They did everything to turn him out, and
couldn't do it. It killed old French; and at last his son pulled the
house down, and Paddy Rea went then, because there wasn't a roof to
cover him. Now I don't want to drive your father to pull down this
house, so I'll go to-morrow."

"The place is so ugly, that if you could make him do so, it would be an
advantage; but I'm afraid the plan wouldn't succeed, so I won't press
you. But if you go, I shan't remain long. If it was to save my life and
theirs, I can't get up small talk for the rector and his curate."

"Well, good night," said Mat; and the two turned off towards their
bed-rooms.

As they passed from the billiard-room through the hall, Lord Cashel
shuffled out of his room, in his slippers and dressing-gown.

"Kilcullen," said he, with a great deal of unconcerned good humour
affected in his tone, "just give me one moment--I've a word to say to
you. Goodnight, Mr Tierney, goodnight; I'm sorry to hear we're to lose
you to-morrow."

Lord Kilcullen shrugged his shoulders, winked at his friend and then
turned round and followed his father.

"It's only one word, Kilcullen," said the father, who was afraid of
angering or irritating his son, now that he thought he was in so fair a
way to obtain the heiress and her fortune. "I'll not detain you half a
minute;" and then he said in a whisper, "take my advice, Kilcullen, and
strike when the iron's hot."

"I don't quite understand you, my lord," said his son, affecting
ignorance of his father's meaning.

"I mean, you can't stand better than you do with Fanny: you've
certainly played your cards admirably, and she's a charming girl, a
very charming girl, and I long to know that she's your own. Take my
advice and ask her at once."

"My lord," said the dutiful son, "if I'm to carry on this affair, I
must be allowed to do it in my own way. You, I dare say, have more
experience than I can boast, and if you choose to make the proposal
yourself to Miss Wyndham on my behalf, I shall be delighted to leave
the matter in your hands; but in that case, I shall choose to be absent
from Grey Abbey. If you wish me to do it, you must let me do it when I
please and how I please."

"Oh, certainly, certainly, Kilcullen," said the earl; "I only want to
point out that I think you'll gain nothing by delay."

"Very well, my lord. Good night." And Lord Kilcullen went to bed, and
the father shuffled back to his study. He had had three different
letters that day from Lord Kilcullen's creditors, all threatening
immediate arrest unless he would make himself responsible for his son's
debts. No wonder that he was in a hurry, poor man!

And Lord Kilcullen, though he had spoken so coolly on the subject,
and had snubbed his father, was equally in a hurry. He also received
letters, and threats, and warnings, and understood, even better than
his father did, the perils which awaited him. He knew that he couldn't
remain at Grey Abbey another week; that in a day or two it wouldn't be
safe for him to leave the house; and that his only chance was at once
to obtain the promise of his cousin's hand, and then betake himself to
some place of security, till he could make her fortune available.

When Fanny came into the breakfast-room next morning, he asked her
to walk with him in the demesne after breakfast. During the whole
of the previous evening she had sat silent and alone, pretending to
read, although he had made two or three efforts to engage her in
conversation. She could not, however, refuse to walk with him, nor
could she quite forgive herself for wishing to do so. She felt that
her sudden attachment for him was damped by what had passed between
her and Lady Selina; but she knew, at the same time, that she was very
unreasonable for quarrelling with one cousin for what another had said.
She accepted his invitation, and shortly after breakfast went upstairs
to get ready. It was a fine, bright, April morning, though the air was
cold, and the ground somewhat damp; so she put on her boa and strong
boots, and sallied forth with Lord Kilcullen; not exactly in a good
humour, but still feeling that she could not justly be out of humour
with him. At the same moment, Lady Selina knocked at her father's door,
with the intention of explaining to him how impossible it was that
Fanny should be persuaded to marry her brother. Poor Lord Cashel! his
life, at that time, was certainly not a happy one.

The two cousins walked some way, nearly in silence. Fanny felt very
little inclined to talk, and even Kilcullen, with all his knowledge of
womankind--with all his assurance, had some difficulty in commencing
what he had to get said and done that morning.

"So Grey Abbey will once more sink into its accustomed dullness," said
he. "Cokely went yesterday, and Tierney and the Ellisons go to-day.
Don't you dread it, Fanny?"

"Oh, I'm used to it: besides, I'm one of the component elements of the
dullness, you know. I'm a portion of the thing itself: it's you that
must feel it."

"I feel it? I suppose I shall. But, as I told you before, the physic to
me was not nearly so nauseous as the sugar. I'm at any rate glad to get
rid of such sweetmeats as the bishop and Mrs Ellison;" and they were
both silent again for a while.

"But you're not a portion of the heaviness of Grey Abbey, Fanny," said
he, referring to what she had said. "You're not an element of its
dullness. I don't say this in flattery--I trust nothing so vile as
flattery will ever take place between us; but you know yourself that
your nature is intended for other things; that you were not born to
pass your life in such a house as this, without society, without
excitement, without something to fill your mind. Fanny, you can't be
happy here, at Grey Abbey."

Happy! thought Fanny to herself. No, indeed, I'm not happy! She didn't
say so, however; and Kilcullen, after a little while, went on speaking.

"I'm sure you can't be comfortable here. You don't feel it, I dare say,
so intolerable as I do; but still you have been out enough, enough in
the world, to feel strongly the everlasting do-nothingness of this
horrid place. I wonder what possesses my father, that he does not go
to London--for your sake if for no one else's. It's not just of him to
coop you up here."

"Indeed it is, Adolphus," said she. "You mistake my character. I'm not
at all anxious for London parties and gaiety. Stupid as you may think
me, I'm quite as well contented to stay here as I should be to go to
London."

"Do you mean me to believe," said Kilcullen, with a gentle laugh,
"that you are contented to live and die in single blessedness at Grey
Abbey?--that your ambition does not soar higher than the interchange of
worsted-work patterns with Miss O'Joscelyn?"

"I did not say so, Adolphus."

"What is your ambition then? what kind and style of life would you
choose to live? Come, Fanny, I wish I could get you to talk with me
about yourself. I wish I could teach you to believe how anxious I am
that your future life should be happy and contented, and at the same
time splendid and noble, as it should be. I'm sure you must have
ambition. I have studied Lavater [47] well enough to know that such
a head and face as yours never belonged to a mind that could satisfy
itself with worsted-work."

     [FOOTNOTE 47: Lavater--Johann Kaspar Lavater (1741-1801),
                   Swiss writer whose only widely read book was a
                   tract on physiognomy (Physiognomische Fragmente
                   zur Beförderung der Menschenkenntnis und
                   Menschenliebe). The Victorians put much stock in
                   physiognomy.]

"You are very severe on the poor worsted-work."

"But am I not in the right?"

"Decidedly not. Lavater, and my head and face, have misled you."

"Nonsense, Fanny. Do you mean to tell me that you have no aspiration
for a kind of life different from this you are leading?--If so, I am
much disappointed in you; much, very much astray in my judgment of your
character." Then he walked on a few yards, looking on the ground, and
said, "Come, Fanny, I am talking very earnestly to you, and you answer
me only in joke. You don't think me impertinent, do you, to talk about
yourself?"

"Impertinent, Adolphus--of course I don't."

"Why won't you talk to me then, in the spirit in which I am talking to
you? If you knew, Fanny, how interested I am about you, how anxious
that you should be happy, how confidently I look forward to the
distinguished position I expect you to fill--if you could guess how
proud I mean to be of you, when you are the cynosure of all eyes--the
admired of all admirers--admired not more for your beauty than your
talent--if I could make you believe, Fanny, how much I expect from you,
and how fully I trust that my expectations will be realised, you would
not, at any rate, answer me lightly."

"Adolphus," said Fanny, "I thought there was to be no flattering
between us?"

"And do you think I would flatter you? Do you think I would stoop to
flatter you? Oh! Fanny, you don't understand me yet; you don't at all
understand, how thoroughly from the heart I'm speaking--how much in
earnest I am; and, so far from flattering you, I am quite as anxious
to find fault with you as I am to praise you, could I feel that I had
liberty to do so."

"Pray do," said Fanny: "anything but flattery; for a friend never
flatters."

But Kilcullen had intended to flatter his fair cousin, and he had been
successful. She was gratified and pleased by his warmth of affection.
"Pray do," repeated Fanny; "I have more faults than virtues to be told
of, and so I'm afraid you'll find out, when you know me better."

"To begin, then," said Kilcullen, "are you not wrong--but no, Fanny, I
will not torment you now with a catalogue of faults. I did not ask you
to come out with me for that object. You are now in grief for the death
of poor Harry"--Fanny blushed as she reflected how much more poignant
a sorrow weighed upon her heart--"and are therefore unable to exert
yourself; but, as soon as you are able--when you have recovered from
this severe blow, I trust you will not be content to loiter and dawdle
away your existence at Grey Abbey."

"Not the whole of it," said Fanny.

"None of it," replied her cousin. "Every month, every day, should
have its purpose. My father has got into a dull, heartless, apathetic
mode of life, which suits my mother and Selina, but which will never
suit you. Grey Abbey is like the Dead Sea, of which the waters are
always bitter as well as stagnant. It makes me miserable, dearest
Fanny, to see you stifled in such a pool. Your beauty, talents, and
energies--your disposition to enjoy life, and power of making it
enjoyable for others, are all thrown away. Oh, Fanny, if I could rescue
you from this!"

"You are inventing imaginary evils," said she; "at any rate they are
not palpable to my eyes."

"That's it; that's just what I fear," said the other, "that time,
habit, and endurance may teach you to think that nothing further is
to be looked for in this world than vegetation at Grey Abbey, or some
other place of the kind, to which you may be transplanted. I want to
wake you from such a torpor; to save you from such ignominy. I wish to
restore you to the world."

"There's time enough, Adolphus; you'll see me yet the gayest of the gay
at Almack's."

"Ah! but to please me, Fanny, it must be as one of the leaders, not one
of the led."

"Oh, that'll be in years to come: in twenty years' time; when I come
forth glorious in a jewelled turban, and yards upon yards of yellow
satin--fat, fair, and forty. I've certainly no ambition to be one of
the leaders yet."

Lord Kilcullen walked on silent for a considerable time, during which
Fanny went on talking about London, Almack's, and the miserable life
of lady patronesses, till at last she also became silent, and began
thinking of Lord Ballindine. She had, some little time since, fully
made up her mind to open her heart to Lord Kilcullen about him, and she
had as fully determined not to do so after what Selina had said upon
the subject; but now she again wavered. His manner was so kind and
affectionate, his interest in her future happiness appeared to be so
true and unaffected: at any rate he would not speak harshly or cruelly
to her, if she convinced him how completely her happiness depended
on her being reconciled to Lord Ballindine. She had all but brought
herself to the point; she had almost determined to tell him everything,
when he stopped rather abruptly, and said,

"I also am leaving Grey Abbey again, Fanny."

"Leaving Grey Abbey?" said Fanny. "You told me the other day you were
going to live here,"

"So I intended; so I do intend; but still I must leave it for a while.
I'm going about business, and I don't know how long I may be away. I go
on Saturday."

"I hope, Adolphus, you haven't quarrelled with your father," said she.

"Oh, no," said he: "it is on his advice that I am going. I believe
there is no fear of our quarrelling now. I should rather say I trust
there is none. He not only approves of my going, but approves of what I
am about to do before I go."

"And what is that?"

and, regarding its demand for self-denial, he denies that it has any
comprehension of the tasks of {395} industry, of the virtues of home
and family life, of patriotism and civil virtue.

Finally, we may make a similar statement in regard to _humility_.
There certainly are ethical naturalists also who are modest. But when
the prophets of ethical naturalism again and again announce that the
great aim of all the discoveries of the evolution theory is to
show us how far mankind has fortunately progressed; when their
spirit of devotion is nourished by Göthe's Promethean word: "Hast
thou not thyself accomplished all, thou holy glowing heart?"

--and even when Häckel prints as the leading motto of his "Anthropogeny"
Göthe's poem "Prometheus"; when the struggle of selection is also
elevated to a moral principle, and the life-task of an individual
is limited to creating elbow-room for himself: then humility, indeed,
is a virtue which a naturalist may acquire, not through his naturalism,
but in spite of it; and the great _naïveté_ with which, in books of
that tendency, haughtiness and passion for glory are treated as
something necessarily understood, and their own ego is glorified,
is a much more logical result.

"We are proud of having so immensely out-stripped our lower animal
ancestors, and derive from it the consoling assurance that in future
also, mankind, as a whole, will follow the _glorious_ career of progressive
development, and attain a still higher degree of mental perfection."
(Häckel, "Hist. of Creat.") This is the theme which is repeated in
many variations in all books of similar tendency. In the same book
already referred to, we read: "Each free and highly developed
individual, each _original_ person, has his own religion, his own
God; _so it is certainly not arrogance_ when we also claim the {396}
right of forming our own idea of God."

Or, "The recognition of the theory of development and the monistic
philosophy based upon it forms the best criterion for the degree of
man's mental development." L.

Büchner, in his collection of essays, "Aus Natur und Welt" ("From
Nature and the World"), dedicates a long chapter to self-glorification,
and finds confirmed in himself the word of the poet, "Great destinies
are always preceded by spirit messengers"; and he, still living, prefaces
his own biography in the latest edition of "Kraft und Stoff" ("Force and
Matter"), and on the first page of the same publishes the testimonial
which he received, when leaving the gymnasium: "The bearer of this
testimonial excelled in the thorough study of literature, philosophy,
and poetry, and as regards style in his productions showed an
excellent talent."

In view of these things, we certainly do no injustice to this tendency
when we deny to it the conception of the idea and the practice of
humility.

§ 2.

_Scientific Darwinism and Moral Life._
It is evident from the peace-relation between mere scientific Darwinism
and moral principles, that naturo-historical Darwinism also remains
in peace with moral life. We therefore have no longer to treat of any
question of competency in the realm of concrete moral life, but
only to mention the points of contact in which both realms, fully
acknowledging their mutual independence, yet in an inferior way exercise
some beneficial influence upon each other. {397}
Moral life influences Darwinism in so far as, by its mere existence,
it cautions the advocate of the scientific evolution theory against
effacing the differences between the moral and the natural, and
against degrading man to the level of animals on account of his
connection with the animal world.

The naturo-historical idea of evolution, in case it should turn out to
be correct, would exercise an influence upon moral life in a three-fold
direction: First, it would add to all the motives of the humane treatment
of the animal world--which certainly without it already has moral
demands--a new one, and establish them all more firmly. Man would then
recognize in the animal world which surrounds him branches of his own
natural pedigree, and exercise his right of mastery only in the
sense which Alex. Braun expresses, when he says: "Man consents to
the idea of being appointed master of animals; but then he must also
acknowledge that he is not placed over his subjects as a stranger,
but proceeded from the people itself, whose master he wishes to be."

A second service which the idea of evolution would have to render to
the forming of moral life, would consist in the fact that it would
favor all those ethical modes of contemplation and those maxims which
regard the gradual process of development and the growth of character
as the relative power of influences and conditions, and that it
would give them hints for the perception of moral growth, in like manner
as, in the before-mentioned parable, the Lord illustrates the imperceptible
and continual growth of the kingdom of God with the growth of a plant.
A third service which the evolution theory might be able {398} to
render to moral life, would consist in the fact that it would give
to the motive of perfection and progress, which is always and
everywhere a moral lever, a new illustration and a new weight by
pointing at the progress which development has to show in the life
of nature

.

* * * * * {399}

CONCLUSION.

If now, having reached our goal, we look back upon the way which
we have traversed, we find a justification of the regret expressed
at the beginning, that a scientific treatment of religion and
morality is compelled to take a position in regard to theories which
are not yet established.

We found the most different problems--scientific, naturo-philosophical,
metaphysical, religious and ethical--inextricably mixed, and were
obliged, as one of our first tasks, to make an attempt at finding the
clew and at examining and testing each single problem, together
with attempts at its solution, separately, although keeping constantly
in mind its connection with all other problems and their attempts
at solution.

We found ourselves led into the presence of a series of the most interesting
problems, but not a single solution finished. That very attempt at
solution which brought up this whole question, and which was repeatedly
announced as the infallible key to the solution of all scientific
problems--the selection theory--we found a decided failure, at least
in the direction of the extension and importance which was given
to this theory.

And yet in spite of the hypothetical nature of all attempts at solution,
we see investigators in all the realms of natural science strongly
attracted by the very promising character of these problems and
busily engaged in making attempts at solution; {400} and we see
even philosophy strongly attracted by its interest in these works.

Such a diligent work can certainly not be without gain; but wherein
will this gain consist?

Will it, as its antagonists prophecy, be like that which in former
times alchemy brought to science, which, indeed, enriched chemistry
by an entire series of new discoveries, but did not find what it
sought, the one fundamental element from which all the rest are
derived, which only confirmed, with a power acknowledged even to-day,
the old doctrine of the elementary difference of the elements?

Will the Darwinian investigations thus also make all possible discoveries
_by the way_, but in place of that which they look for, in place of a
common pedigree or of a few pedigrees for all organisms, finally
only give additional strength to the permanence of species and the
unapproachableness of the secret of their origin?

Or can we derive from the reasons which the investigators urge in favor
of the idea of an origin of species through descent and evolution, the
hope that that mysterious darkness of prehistoric times upon which
the works of our century have shed so much light, will still be
illuminated even to the sources from which organic species came,
and from which mankind also originated?

We must leave the decision of these questions to the future and to
scientists.

But we have to note _one_ gain, which is so great that on its account,
we willingly cease our regret in regard to the unfinished condition
of these theories; for we owe the full enjoyment of this gain to
that very unfinished condition.

It is the gain which _religion and morality_ get from these
investigations, and which consists in the new and comprehensive confirmation
of the conviction, {401} which, indeed, was established before, that
religion and morality--Christian religion and Christian morality--rest
on foundations which can no longer be shaken by any result of exact
investigation.

The triumph with which the Darwinian theories were greeted by many
as the new sun before whose rising all that mankind had thus far
called light and sun turns pale, and the antipathy with which, on
that very account, many to whom their religious and ethical
acquisitions are a sacred sanctuary, turn away from these theories,
urged us to investigate their position in reference to religion and
morality.

Now, if these theories had produced a certain undoubted result, we
should unquestionably have been satisfied with the examination of
the position of religion and morality in reference to this certain
result. But since not a single result of those investigations is
really established, we have found ourselves obliged to give our
investigation a much greater extension and to discuss even all
imaginable _possibilities_. The beneficial result of this comparison
was, that religion and morality not only remain at peace with all
imaginable possibilities of _scientific_ theories, but can also, in
the realm of the _philosophy of the doctrines of nature_, be passive
spectators of all investigations and attempts, even of all possible
excursions into the realm of fancy, without being obliged to
interfere.

It is in the realm of _mere metaphysics_ that we first perceive an
antagonist whose victory would indeed be fatal to the religious
and ethical acquisitions of mankind: this antagonist is called
elimination from nature of the idea of design.

Fortunately, this metaphysical idea is in such striking opposition not
only to the whole world of facts but also to all logical {402} reasoning,
it has everywhere, where man perceives organization and a difference
between lower and higher, especially in the contemplation of the
world, of this _cosmos_ of wonderful order and beauty, so decidedly
all philosophical as well as all exact sciences as its adversaries,
it lays its hands so rudely and so destructively not only upon the
religious and ethical acquisitions but also upon all ideal remaining
acquisitions of mankind, that religion and morality know, when
fighting this adversary, they are in firm accord with all the
spiritual interests of mankind.

This, in its most essential features, is the pleasing result of our
critical examination; and such a demonstration of the immovably
solid foundation, secure from all the change of opinions and all
the progress of discoveries on which morality and religion rest,
has still an entire series of further pleasing consequences in its
train.

In the first place, it is a living and actual proof of the fact that
religion and morality give to all sciences _the full freedom of
investigation_. The religious and ethical interest itself not
only gives, but even _requires_, this freedom of investigation. It
requires it in consequence of that _impulse of truth_ which religion
has in common with every impulse of knowledge, and which in itself is
an ethical impulse.

In consequence of this impulse, religion must found its possession on
nothing else than subjective and objective truth, and can look
upon all the paths which lead through even the remotest realm of
knowledge to the establishment of truth, only with sympathetic interest.
Precisely those who see in religion more than a mere expression of
emotion, and all those who require that their religious life and the
object of {403} their religious faith shall possess truth, subjective
and objective, cannot commit any greater folly than treating search for
truth in any other realm with suspicion, or even ignoring it. They
only injure that which they meant to defend, by rendering the purity
of their own religious interest suspected, and by establishing more
firmly the breach between religious life and faith and the other
acquisitions of culture and interests of their time, of which neither
religion nor science, but only a misguided tendency of their minds
and hearts, is guilty. How much unfriendly and unjust judgment has
already found utterance by means of the pen and voice, in reference
to honest and meritorious workers, on the part of religious zealots
who fail to recognize that close relationship of the religious with the
scientific impulse of truth! How often and how much does such a judgment
gain great consideration from a public of which but a few are able to
form an independent opinion of the men and works which are thus
abused before their eyes and ears, and how much of the aversion to the
form in which the religious life of the present offers itself, on
the part of those men who are thus suspected, is in the last instance
to be attributed neither to be irreligiousness of these men nor to
the deficiency of the present form of our religious life, but to
the repelling effect of that unjust treatment!

Another gain of our discussion, correlated to that just mentioned,
consists in the proof _that religion and morality have their autonomous
principle and realm_ which is not at all obliged to borrow the
proof of its truth from the present condition and degree of our
knowledge, but carries it in itself, although it stands in {404}
fruitful reciprocal action with all the other realms of knowledge
and life.

Just as decidedly as we had to caution the advocates of religion
against keeping themselves indifferent, suspicious, or even hostile,
regarding the advances into the realm of secular knowledge, so
decidedly do we like to see the workers in the realm of the knowledge
of nature cautioned against confusing points of view, in thinking
that they can through their scientific knowledge purify and reform
the religious and ethical realms.

They may purify and reform as much as they please, but only in
their own realm. The only thing they are able to reform is our knowledge
of nature, and in our religious and ethical life and perception
only that which belongs to this natural part; but this is only the
outer part of religious and ethical life: the source of our religion
and morality springs from quite another ground than that which they
cultivate.

A third gain from our discussion is the actual proof of _the harmony
between faith and knowledge, between the religious and the scientific
views of the world_. In our investigation we had no occasion for
psychological or theoretical investigations as to faith and knowledge
and their mutual relation; but if our discussion is not an entire failure,
perhaps the actual exposition of a standpoint on which faith and
knowledge may live at peace with one another, which is not bought by a
sacrifice on either side, and which does not consist in a compromise
of the two, but which has its reason in the deepest and most active
interest of the one, in the full and unconstrained freedom of the
other, a stronger proof for the intimate relationship of these
brothers, between whom the present generation wishes too often to
sow discord, than if we {405} had undertaken long religio-philosophical
and theoretical investigations.

Finally, the results of our analysis have given us still another gain:
they have led us beyond Lessing's "Nathan" and his parable of the
"Three Rings."

We call this a gain, without the least intention of discrediting by it
the motives of tolerance and the points of view for the judgment of
the character and religiousness of human individuals, which lay
in that parable, or suspecting the motives of so many of our
contemporaries whose religio-philosophical judgment is entirely expressed
in that parable.

We saw ourselves compelled to make a choice either of accepting or
of rejecting ends in the world, and found that the world resolves
itself into a senseless game at dice, and that the phenomena become
more unintelligible the more important they are, if we ignore or
even reject teleology.

The acknowledgment of the latter prevented us from seeing in the world
and its events merely the eternal stream of planless coming
and going; it prevented us from accepting such an endless stream of
appearance and disappearance, and therefore also an endless stream
of the appearance and disappearance of new forms of religion in that
creature for whose appearance we see all other creatures are only a
preparation, and are even obliged to look upon them as a preparation
in accordance with no other theory more than that of evolution.

It also urged us to inquire as to the ends and designs of mankind,
and we found this end in the disposition of man for a communion
with God, for the state of bearing his image and of being his child.

Now we have fully to acknowledge that Christianity, like all religions
which claim truth and universal acceptance, {406} is to be analyzed
with the very same means of science as all phenomena in the world of
facts, and that therefore it is especially subject to all investigations
of religio-philosophical, religio-historical, and historical criticism,
to its fullest extent. But precisely such an analysis of Christianity
leads us to a result which elevates Christian religion high above
all other forms.
"I hate Lord Ballindine's very name," said the earl, petulant with
irritation.

"We none of us approve of him, papa: we don't think of supposing
that he could now be a fitting husband for Fanny, or that they could
possibly ever be married. Of course it's not to be thought of. But if
you would advise Adolphus not to be premature, he might, in the end,
be more successful."

"Kilcullen has made his own bed and he must lie in it; I won't
interfere between them," said the angry father.

"But if you were only to recommend delay," suggested the daughter; "a
few months' delay; think how short a time Harry Wyndham has been dead!"

Lord Cashel knew that delay was death in this case, so he pished, and
hummed, and hawed; quite lost the dignity on which he piqued himself,
and ended by declaring that he would not interfere; that they might do
as they liked; that young people would not be guided, and that he would
not make himself unhappy about them. And so, Lady Selina, crestfallen
and disappointed, went away.

Then, Lady Cashel, reflecting on what her daughter had told her, and
yet anxious that the marriage should, if possible, take place at some
time or other, sent Griffiths down to her lord, with a message--"Would
his lordship be kind enough to step up-stairs to her ladyship?" Lord
Cashel went up, and again had all the difficulties of the case opened
out before him.

"But you see," said her ladyship, "poor Fanny--she's become so
unreasonable--I don't know what's come to her--I'm sure I do everything
I can to make her happy: but I suppose if she don't like to marry,
nobody can make her."

"Make her?--who's talking of making her?" said the earl.

"No, of course not," continued the countess; "that's just what Selina
says; no one can make her do anything, she's got so obstinate, of late:
but it's all that horrid Lord Ballindine, and those odious horses. I'm
sure I don't know what business gentlemen have to have horses at all;
there's never any good comes of it. There's Adolphus--he's had the good
sense to get rid of his, and yet Fanny's so foolish, she'd sooner have
that other horrid man--and I'm sure he's not half so good-looking, nor
a quarter so agreeable as Adolphus."

All these encomiums on his son, and animadversions on Lord Ballindine,
were not calculated to put the earl into a good humour; he was heartily
sick of the subject; thoroughly repented that he had not allowed his
son to ruin himself in his own way; detested the very name of Lord
Ballindine, and felt no very strong affection for his poor innocent
ward. He accordingly made his wife nearly the same answer he had made
his daughter, and left her anything but comforted by the visit.

It was about eleven o'clock on the same evening, that Lord Kilcullen,
after parting with Fanny, opened the book-room door. He had been quite
sincere in what he had told her. He had made up his mind entirely to
give over all hopes of marrying her himself, and to tell his father
that the field was again open for Lord Ballindine, as far as he was
concerned.

There is no doubt that he would not have been noble enough to do this,
had he thought he had himself any chance of being successful; but still
there was something chivalrous in his resolve, something magnanimous in
his determination to do all he could for the happiness of her he really
loved, when everything in his own prospects was gloomy, dark, and
desperate. As he entered his father's room, feeling that it would
probably be very long before he should be closeted with him again, he
determined that he would not quietly bear reproaches, and even felt a
source of satisfaction in the prospect of telling his father that their
joint plans were overturned--their schemes completely at an end.

"I'm disturbing you, my lord, I'm afraid," said the son, walking into
the room, not at all with the manner of one who had any hesitation at
causing the disturbance.

"Who's that?" said the earl--"Adolphus?--no--yes. That is, I'm just
going to bed; what is it you want?" The earl had been dozing after all
the vexations of the day.

"To tell the truth, my lord, I've a good deal that I wish to say: will
it trouble you to listen to me?"

"Won't to-morrow morning do?"

"I shall leave Grey Abbey early to-morrow, my lord; immediately after
breakfast."

"Good heavens, Kilcullen! what do you mean? You're not going to run off
to London again?"

"A little farther than that, I'm afraid, will be necessary," said the
son. "I have offered to Miss Wyndham--have been refused--and, having
finished my business at Grey Abbey, your lordship will probably think
that in leaving it I shall be acting with discretion."

"You have offered to Fanny and been refused!"

"Indeed I have; finally and peremptorily refused. Not only that: I have
pledged my word to my cousin that I will never renew my suit."

The earl sat speechless in his chair--so much worse was this
catastrophe even than his expectations. Lord Kilcullen continued.

"I hope, at any rate, you are satisfied with me. I have not only
implicitly obeyed your directions, but I have done everything in
my power to accomplish what you wished. Had my marriage with my
cousin been a project of my own, I could not have done more for its
accomplishment. Miss Wyndham's affections are engaged; and she will
never, I am sure, marry one man while she loves another."

"Loves another--psha!" roared the earl. "Is this to be the end of it
all? After your promises to me--after your engagement! After such an
engagement, sir, you come to me and talk about a girl loving another?
Loving another! Will her loving another pay your debts?"

"Exactly the reverse, my lord," said the son. "I fear it will
materially postpone their payment."

"Well, sir," said the earl. He did not exactly know how to commence the
thunder of indignation with which he intended to annihilate his son,
for certainly Kilcullen had done the best in his power to complete the
bargain. But still the storm could not be stayed, unreasonable as it
might be for the earl to be tempestuous on the occasion. "Well, sir,"
and he stood up from his chair, to face his victim, who was still
standing--and, thrusting his hands into his trowsers' pockets, frowned
awfully--"Well, sir; am I to be any further favoured with your plans?"

"I have none, my lord," said Kilcullen; "I am again ready to listen to
yours."

"My plans?--I have no further plans to offer for you. You are ruined,
utterly ruined: you have done your best to ruin me and your mother; I
have pointed out to you, I arranged for you, the only way in which your
affairs could be redeemed; I made every thing easy for you."

"No, my lord: you could not make it easy for me to get my cousin's
love."

"Don't contradict me, sir. I say I did. I made every thing straight
and easy for you: and now you come to me with a whining story about a
girl's love! What's her love to me, sir? Where am I to get my thirty
thousand pounds, sir?--and my note of hand is passed for as much more,
at this time twelve-month! Where am I to raise that, sir? Do you
remember that you have engaged to repay me these sums?--do you remember
that, or have such trifles escaped your recollection?"

"I remember perfectly well, my lord, that if I married my cousin,
you were to repay yourself those sums out of her fortune. But I also
remember, and so must you, that I beforehand warned you that I thought
she would refuse me."

"Refuse you," said the earl, with a contortion of his nose and lips
intended to convey unutterable scorn; "of course she refused you, when
you asked her as a child would ask for an apple, or a cake! What else
could you expect?"

"I hardly think your lordship knows--"

"Don't you hardly think?--then I do know; and know well too. I know you
have deceived me, grossly deceived me--induced me to give you money--to
incur debts, with which I never would have burdened myself had I not
believed you were sincere in your promise. But you have deceived me,
sir--taken me in; for by heaven it's no better!--it's no better than
downright swindling--and that from a son to his father! But it's for
the last time; not a penny more do you get from me: you can ruin the
property; indeed, I believe you have; but, for your mother's and
sister's sake, I'll keep till I die what little you have left me."

Lord Cashel had worked himself up into a perfect frenzy, and was
stamping about the room as he uttered this speech; but, as he came to
the end of it, he threw himself into his chair again, and buried his
face in his hands.

Lord Kilcullen was standing with his back resting against the
mantel-piece, with a look of feigned indifference on his face, which
he tried hard to maintain. But his brow became clouded, and he bit his
lips when his father accused him of swindling; and he was just about to
break forth into a torrent of recrimination, when Lord Cashel turned
off into a pathetic strain, and Kilcullen thought it better to leave
him there.

"What I'm to do, I don't know; what I am to do, I do not know!" said
the earl, beating the table with one hand, and hiding his face with
the other. "Sixty thousand pounds in one year; and that after so many
drains!--And there's only my own life--there's only my own life!"--and
then there was a pause for four or five minutes, during which Lord
Kilcullen took snuff, poked the fire, and then picked up a newspaper,
as though he were going to read it. This last was too much for the
father, and he again roared out, "Well, sir, what are you standing
there for? If you've nothing else to say; why don't you go? I've done
with you--you can not get more out of me, I promise you!"

"I've a good deal to say before I go, my lord," said Kilcullen. "I was
waiting till you were disposed to listen to me. I've a good deal to
say, indeed, which you must hear; and I trust, therefore, you will
endeavour to be cool, whatever your opinions may be about my conduct."

"Cool?--no, sir, I will not be cool. You're too cool yourself!"

"Cool enough for both, you think, my lord."

"Kilcullen," said the earl, "you've neither heart nor principle: you
have done your worst to ruin me, and now you come to insult me in my
own room. Say what you want to say, and then leave me."

"As to insulting language, my lord, I think you need not complain, when
you remember that you have just called me a swindler, because I have
been unable to accomplish your wish and my own, by marrying my cousin.
However, I will let that pass. I have done the best I could to gain
that object. I did more than either of us thought it possible that I
should do, when I consented to attempt it. I offered her my hand, and
assured her of my affection, without falsehood or hypocrisy. My bargain
was that I should offer to her. I have done more than that, for I have
loved her. I have, however, been refused, and in such a manner as
to convince me that it would be useless for me to renew my suit. If
your lordship will allow me to advise you on such a subject, I would
suggest that you make no further objection to Fanny's union with Lord
Ballindine. For marry him she certainly will."

"What, sir?" again shouted Lord Cashel.

"I trust Fanny will receive no further annoyance on the subject. She
has convinced me that her own mind is thoroughly made up; and she is
not the person to change her mind on such a subject."

"And haven't you enough on hand in your own troubles, but what you must
lecture me about my ward?--Is it for that you have come to torment me
at this hour? Had not you better at once become her guardian yourself,
sir, and manage the matter in your own way?"

"I promised Fanny I would say as much to you. I will not again mention
her name unless you press me to do so."

"That's very kind," said the earl.

"And now, about myself. I think your lordship will agree with me that
it is better that I should at once leave Grey Abbey, when I tell you
that, if I remain here, I shall certainly be arrested before the
week is over, if I am found outside the house. I do not wish to have
bailiffs knocking at your lordship's door, and your servants instructed
to deny me."

"Upon my soul, you are too good."

"At any rate," said Kilcullen, "you'll agree with me that this is no
place for me to remain in."

"You're quite at liberty to go," said the earl. "You were never very
ceremonious with regard to me; pray don't begin to be so now. Pray
go--to-night if you like. Your mother's heart will be broken, that's
all."

"I trust my mother will be able to copy your lordship's indifference."

"Indifference! Is sixty thousand pounds in one year, and more than
double within three or four, indifference? I have paid too much to be
indifferent. But it is hopeless to pay more. I have no hope for you;
you are ruined, and I couldn't redeem you even if I would. I could not
set you free and tell you to begin again, even were it wise to do so;
and therefore I tell you to go. And now, good night; I have not another
word to say to you," and the earl got up as if to leave the room.

"Stop, my lord, you must listen to me," said Kilcullen.

"Not a word further. I have heard enough;" and he put out the candles
on the book-room table, having lighted a bed candle which he held in
his hand.

"Pardon me, my lord," continued the son, standing just before his
father, so as to prevent his leaving the room; "pardon me, but you must
listen to what I have to say."

"Not another word--not another word. Leave the door, sir, or I will
ring for the servants to open it."

"Do so," said Kilcullen, "and they also shall hear what I have to say.
I am going to leave you to-morrow, perhaps for ever; and you will not
listen to the last word I wish to speak to you?"

"I'll stay five minutes," said the earl, taking out his watch, "and
then I'll go; and if you attempt again to stop me, I'll ring the bell
for the servants."

"Thank you, my lord, for the five minutes; it will be time enough. I
purpose leaving Grey Abbey to-morrow, and I shall probably be in France
in three days' time. When there, I trust I shall cease to trouble you;
but I cannot, indeed I will not go, without funds to last me till I can
make some arrangement. Your lordship must give me five hundred pounds.
I have not the means even of carrying myself from hence to Calais."

"Not one penny. Not one penny--if it were to save you from the gaol
to-morrow! This is too bad!" and the earl again walked to the door,
against which Lord Kilcullen leaned his back. "By Heaven, sir, I'll
raise the house if you think to frighten me by violence!"

"I'll use no violence, but you must hear the alternative: if you please
it, the whole house shall hear it too. If you persist in refusing the
small sum I now ask--"

"I will not give you one penny to save you from gaol. Is that plain?"

"Perfectly plain, and very easy to believe. But you will give more than
a penny; you would even give more than I ask, to save yourself from the
annoyance you will have to undergo."

"Not on any account will I give you one single farthing."

"Very well. Then I have only to tell you what I must do. Of course, I
shall remain here. You cannot turn me out of your house, or refuse me a
seat at your table."

"By Heavens, though, I both can and will!"

"You cannot, my lord. If you think of it, you'll find you cannot,
without much disagreeable trouble. An eldest son would be a very
difficult tenant to eject summarily: and of my own accord I will not go
without the money I ask."

"By heavens, this exceeds all I ever heard. Would you rob your own
father?"

"I will not rob him, but I'll remain in his house. The sheriff's
officers, doubtless, will hang about the doors, and be rather
troublesome before the windows; but I shall not be the first Irish
gentleman that has remained at home upon his keeping. And, like other
Irish gentlemen, I will do so rather than fall into the hands of these
myrmidons. I have no wish to annoy you; I shall be most sorry to do so;
most sorry to subject my mother to the misery which must attend the
continual attempts which will be made to arrest me; but I will not put
my head into the lion's jaw."

"This is the return for what I have done for him!" ejaculated the earl,
in his misery. "Unfortunate reprobate! unfortunate reprobate!--that I
should be driven to wish that he was in gaol!"

"Your wishing so won't put me there, my lord. If it would I should not
be weak enough to ask you for this money. Do you mean to comply with my
request?"

"I do not, sir: not a penny shall you have--not one farthing more shall
you get from me."

"Then good night, my lord. I grieve that I should have to undergo a
siege in your lordship's house, more especially as it is likely to be a
long one. In a week's time there will be a '_ne exeat_' [48] issued
against me, and then it will be too late for me to think of France."
And so saying, the son retired to his own room, and left the father to
consider what he had better do in his distress.

     [FOOTNOTE 48: ne exeat--(Latin) "let him not leave"; a legal
                   writ forbidding a person to leave the jurisdiction
                   of the court]

Lord Cashel was dreadfully embarrassed. What Lord Kilcullen said was
perfectly true; an eldest son was a most difficult tenant to eject; and
then, the ignominy of having his heir arrested in his own house, or
detained there by bailiffs lurking round the premises! He could not
determine whether it would be more painful to keep his son, or to give
him up. If he did the latter, he would be driven to effect it by a most
disagreeable process. He would have to assist the officers of the law
in their duty, and to authorise them to force the doors locked by his
son. The prospect, either way, was horrid. He would willingly give the
five hundred pounds to be rid of his heir, were it not for his word's
sake, or rather his pride's sake. He had said he would not, and, as he
walked up and down the room he buttoned up his breeches pocket, and
tried to resolve that, come what come might, he would not expedite his
son's departure by the outlay of one shilling.

The candles had been put out, and the gloom of the room was only
lightened by a single bed-room taper, which, as it stood near the door,
only served to render palpable the darkness of the further end of the
chamber. For half an hour Lord Cashel walked to and fro, anxious,
wretched, and in doubt, instead of going to his room. How he wished
that Lord Ballindine had married his ward, and taken her off six months
since!--all this trouble would not then have come upon him. And as he
thought of the thirty thousand pounds that he had spent, and the thirty
thousand more that he must spend, he hurried on with such rapidity that
in the darkness he struck his shin violently against some heavy piece
of furniture, and, limping back to the candlestick, swore through his
teeth--"No, not a penny, were it to save him from perdition! I'll see
the sheriff's officer. I'll see the sheriff himself, and tell him that
every door in the house--every closet--every cellar, shall be open to
him. My house shall enable no one to defy the law." And, with this
noble resolve, to which, by the bye, the blow on his shin greatly
contributed, Lord Cashel went to bed, and the house was at rest.

About nine o'clock on the following morning Lord Kilcullen was still in
bed, but awake. Raffles's plan was to reconnoitre the place, and then
take up a position from which we could watch our man and pounce upon
him if he gave us cause. The spot that we eventually chose and stealthily
occupied was behind some bushes through which we could see down into
the donga; there were the precious horses; and there sure enough was
our wounded corporal, sitting smoking in his cloak, some glimmering thing
in his lap.

"That's his revolver, and it's a Mauser," whispered Raffles. "He
shan't have a chance of using it on us; either we must be on him
before he knows we are anywhere near, or simply report.

It's easily proved once we are sure; but I should like to have the
taking of him too."

There was a setting moon. Shadows were sharp and black. The man
smoked steadily, and the hungry horses did what I never saw horses
do before; they stood and nibbled at each other's tails.

I was used to sleeping in the open, under the jewelled dome that
seems so much vaster and grander in these wide spaces of the earth.
I lay listening to the horses, and to the myriad small strange
voices of the veldt, to which I cannot even now put a name, while
Raffles watched.

"One head is better than two," he said, "when you don't want it to
be seen."

We were to take watch and watch about, however, and the other might
sleep if he could; it was not my fault that I did nothing else;
it was Raffles who could trust nobody but himself.

Nor was there any time for recriminations when he did rouse me in the
end.

But a moment ago, as it seemed to me, I had been gazing upward at
the stars and listening to the dear, minute sounds of peace; and
in another the great gray slate was clean, and every bone of me set
in plaster of Paris, and sniping beginning between pickets with the
day.

It was an occasional crack, not a constant crackle, but the whistle
of a bullet as it passed us by, or a tiny transitory flame for the
one bit of detail on a blue hill-side, was an unpleasant warning
that we two on ours were a target in ourselves.

But Raffles paid no attention to their fire; he was pointing downward
through the bushes to where Corporal Connal stood with his back to
us, shooing a last charger out of the mouth of the donga towards the
Boer trenches.

"I thought as much," said Lord Kilcullen; "I thought he'd alter his
mind. Yes, you may give it me, and tell my father I'll dine in London
to-morrow evening."

"He says, Adolphus, he'll not see you before you go."

"Well, there's comfort in that, anyhow."

"Oh, Adolphus! how can you speak in that manner now?--how can you speak
in that wicked, thoughtless, reckless manner?" said his sister.

"Because I'm a wicked, thoughtless, reckless man, I suppose. I didn't
mean to vex you, Selina; but my father is so pompous, so absurd, and so
tedious. In the whole of this affair I have endeavoured to do exactly
as he would have me; and he is more angry with me now, because his plan
has failed, than he ever was before, for any of my past misdoings.--But
let me get up now, there's a good girl; for I've no time to lose."

"Will you see your mother before you go, Adolphus?"

"Why, no; it'll be no use--only tormenting her. Tell her something, you
know; anything that won't vex her."

"But I cannot tell her anything about you that will not vex her."

"Well, then, say what will vex her least. Tell her--tell her. Oh, you
know what to tell her, and I'm sure I don't."

"And Fanny: will you see her again?"

"No," said Kilcullen. "I have bid her good bye. But give her my kindest
love, and tell her that I did what I told her I would do."

"She told me what took place between you yesterday."

"Why, Selina, everybody tells you everything! And now, I'll tell you
something. If you care for your cousin's happiness, do not attempt to
raise difficulties between her and Lord Ballindine. And now, I must say
good bye to you. I'll have my breakfast up here, and go directly down
to the yard. Good bye, Selina; when I'm settled I'll write to you, and
tell you where I am."

"Good bye, Adolphus; God bless you, and enable you yet to retrieve your
course. I'm afraid it is a bad one;" and she stooped down and kissed
her brother.

He was as good as his word. In two hours' time he had left Grey Abbey.
He dined that day in Dublin, the next in London, and the third in
Boulogne; and the sub-sheriff of County Kildare in vain issued
half-a-dozen writs for his capture.


XXXIV.  THE DOCTOR MAKES A CLEAN BREAST OF IT


We will now return for a while to Dunmore, and settle the affairs of
the Kellys and Lynches, which we left in rather a precarious state.

Barry's attempt on Doctor Colligan's virtue was very unsuccessful, for
Anty continued to mend under the treatment of that uncouth but safe son
of Galen. As Colligan told her brother, the fever had left her, though
for some time it was doubtful whether she had strength to recover from
its effects. This, however, she did gradually; and, about a fortnight
after the dinner at Dunmore House, the doctor told Mrs Kelly and Martin
that his patient was out of danger.

Martin had for some time made up his mind that Anty was to live for
many years in the character of Mrs Martin, and could not therefore be
said to be much affected by the communication. But if he was not, his
mother was. She had made up her mind that Anty was to die; that she
was to pay for the doctor--the wake, and the funeral, and that she
would have a hardship and grievance to boast of, and a subject of
self-commendation to enlarge on, which would have lasted her till her
death; and she consequently felt something like disappointment at being
ordered to administer to Anty a mutton chop and a glass of sherry every
day at one o'clock. Not that the widow was less assiduous, or less
attentive to Anty's wants now that she was convalescent; but she
certainly had not so much personal satisfaction, as when she was able
to speak despondingly of her patient to all her gossips.

"Poor cratur!" she used to say--"it's all up with her now; the Lord be
praised for all his mercies. She's all as one as gone, glory be to God
and the Blessed Virgin. Shure no good ever come of ill-got money;--not
that she was iver to blame. Thank the Lord, av' I have a penny saved at
all, it was honestly come by; not that I shall have when this is done
and paid for, not a stifle; (stiver [49] Mrs Kelly probably meant)--but
what's that!" and she snapped her fingers to show that the world's gear
was all dross in her estimation.--"She shall be dacently sthretched,
though she is a Lynch, and a Kelly has to pay for it. Whisper,
neighbour; in two years' time there'll not be one penny left on another
of all the dirthy money Sim Lynch scraped together out of the
gutthers."

     [FOOTNOTE 49: stiver--a Dutch coin worth almost nothing]

There was a degree of triumph in these lamentations, a tone of
self-satisfied assurance in the truth of her melancholy predictions,
which showed that the widow was not ill at ease with herself. When Anty
was declared out of danger, her joy was expressed with much more
moderation.

"Yes, thin," she said to Father Pat Geoghegan, "poor thing, she's
rallying a bit. The docthor says maybe she'll not go this time; but
he's much in dread of a re-claps--"

"Relapse, Mrs Kelly, I suppose?"

"Well, relapse, av' you will, Father Pat--relapse or reclaps, it's
pretty much the same I'm thinking; for she'd niver get through another
bout. God send we may be well out of the hobble this day twelvemonth.
Martin's my own son, and ain't above industhrying, as his father and
mother did afore him, and I won't say a word agin him; but he's brought
more throuble on me with them Lynches than iver I knew before. What has
a lone woman like me, Father Pat, to do wid sthrangers like them? jist
to turn their backs on me when I ain't no furder use, and to be gitting
the hights of insolence and abuse, as I did from that blagguard Barry.
He'd betther keep his toe in his pump and go asy, or he'll wake to a
sore morning yet, some day."

Doctor Colligan, also, was in trouble from his connection with the
Lynches: not that he had any dissatisfaction at the recovery of his
patient, for he rejoiced at it, both on her account and his own. He had
strongly that feeling of self-applause, which must always be enjoyed by
a doctor who brings a patient safely through a dangerous illness. But
Barry's iniquitous proposal to him weighed heavy on his conscience. It
was now a week since it had been made, and he had spoken of it to no
one. He had thought much and frequently of what he ought to do; whether
he should publicly charge Lynch with the fact; whether he should tell
it confidentially to some friend whom he could trust; or whether--by
far the easiest alternative, he should keep it in his own bosom, and
avoid the man in future as he would an incarnation of the devil. It
preyed much upon his spirits, for he lived in fear of Barry Lynch--in
fear lest he should determine to have the first word, and, in his
own defence, accuse him (Colligan) of the very iniquity which he had
himself committed. Nothing, the doctor felt, would be too bad or too
false for Barry Lynch; nothing could be more damnable than the proposal
he had made; and yet it would be impossible to convict him, impossible
to punish him. He would, of course, deny the truth of the accusation,
and probably return the charge on his accuser. And yet Colligan felt
that he would be compromising the matter, if he did not mention it to
some one; and that he would outrage his own feelings if he did not
express his horror at the murder which he had been asked to commit.

For one week these feelings quite destroyed poor Colligan's peace
of mind; during the second, he determined to make a clean breast
of it; and, on the first day of the third week, after turning in
his mind twenty different people--Martin Kelly--young Daly--the
widow--the parish priest--the parish parson--the nearest stipendiary
magistrate--and a brother doctor in Tuam, he at last determined on
going to Lord Ballindine, as being both a magistrate and a friend of
the Kellys. Doctor Colligan himself was not at all acquainted with Lord
Ballindine: he attended none of the family, who extensively patronised
his rival, and he had never been inside Kelly's Court house. He felt,
therefore, considerable embarrassment at his mission; but he made up
his mind to go, and, manfully setting himself in his antique rickety
gig, started early enough, to catch Lord Ballindine, as he thought,
before he left the house after breakfast.

Lord Ballindine had spent the last week or ten days restlessly enough.
Armstrong, his clerical ambassador, had not yet started on his mission
to Grey Abbey, and innumerable difficulties seemed to arise to prevent
his doing so. First of all, the black cloth was to be purchased, and
a tailor, sufficiently adept for making up the new suit, was to be
caught. This was a work of some time; for though there is in the West
of Ireland a very general complaint of the stagnation of trade, trade
itself is never so stagnant as are the tradesmen, when work, is to be
done; and it is useless for a poor wight to think of getting his coat
or his boots, till such time as absolute want shall have driven the
artisan to look for the price of his job--unless some private and
underhand influence be used, as was done in the case of Jerry Blake's
new leather breeches.

This cause of delay was, however, not mentioned to Lord Ballindine; but
when it was well got over, and a neighbouring parson procured to preach
on the next Sunday to Mrs O'Kelly and the three policemen who attended
Ballindine Church, Mrs Armstrong broke her thumb with the rolling-pin
while making a beef pudding for the family dinner, and her husband's
departure was again retarded. And then, on the next Sunday, the
neighbouring parson could not leave his own policemen, and the two
spinsters, who usually formed his audience.

All this tormented Lord Ballindine. and he was really thinking of
giving up the idea of sending Mr Armstrong altogether, when he received
the following letter from his friend Dot Blake.


   Limmer's Hotel. April, 1847.

   Dear Frank,

   One cries out, "what are you at?" the other, "what are you after?"
   Every one is saying what a fool you are! Kilcullen is at Grey Abbey,
   with the evident intention of superseding you in possession of Miss
   W----, and, what is much more to his taste, as it would be to mine,
   of her fortune. Mr T. has written to me _from Grey Abbey_, where he
   has been staying: he is a good-hearted fellow, and remembers how
   warmly you contradicted the report that your match was broken off.
   For heaven's sake, follow up your warmth of denial with some show of
   positive action, a little less cool than your present quiescence, or
   you cannot expect that any amount of love should be strong enough
   to prevent your affianced from resenting your conduct. I am doubly
   anxious; quite as anxious that Kilcullen, whom I detest, should not
   get young Wyndham's money, as I am that you should. He is utterly,
   _utterly_ smashed. If he got double the amount of Fanny Wyndham's
   cash, it could not keep him above water for more than a year or so;
   and then she must go down with him. I am sure the old fool, his
   father, does not half know the amount of his son's liabilities, or
   he could not be heartless enough to consent to sacrifice the poor
   girl as she will be sacrificed, if Kilcullen gets her. I am not
   usually very anxious about other people's concerns; but I do feel
   anxious about this matter. I want to have a respectable house in the
   country, in which I can show my face when I grow a little older, and
   be allowed to sip my glass of claret, and talk about my horses, in
   spite of my iniquitous propensities--and I expect to be allowed to
   do so at Kelly's Court. But, if you let Miss Wyndham slip through
   your fingers, you won't have a house over your head in a few years'
   time, much less a shelter to offer a friend. For God's sake, start
   for Grey Abbey at once. Why, man alive, the ogre can't eat you!

   The whole town is in the devil of a ferment about Brien. Of course
   you heard the rumour, last week, of his heels being cracked? Some
   of the knowing boys want to get out of the trap they are in; and,
   despairing of bringing the horse down in the betting by fair means,
   got a boy out of Scott's stables to swear to the fact. I went down
   at once to Yorkshire, and published a letter in _Bell's Life_ last
   Saturday, stating that he is all right. This you have probably seen.
   You will be astonished to hear it, but I believe Lord Tattenham
   Corner got the report spread. For heaven's sake don't mention this,
   particularly not as coming from me. They say that if Brien does the
   trick, he will lose more than he has made these three years, and I
   believe he will. He is nominally at 4 to 1; but you can't get 4 to
   anything like a figure from a safe party.

   For heaven's sake go to Grey Abbey, and at once.

   Always faithfully,

   W. BLAKE.


This letter naturally increased Lord Ballindine's uneasiness, and he
wrote a note to Mr Armstrong, informing him that he would not trouble
him to go at all, unless he could start the next day. Indeed, that he
should then go himself, if Mr Armstrong did not do so.

This did not suit Mr Armstrong. He had made up his mind to go; he could
not well return the twenty pounds he had received, nor did he wish to
forego the advantage which might arise from the trip. So he told his
wife to be very careful about her thumb, made up his mind to leave
the three policemen for once without spiritual food, and wrote to
Lord Ballindine to say that he would be with him the next morning,
immediately after breakfast, on his road to catch the mail-coach at
Ballyglass.

He was as good as his word, or rather better; for he breakfasted at
Kelly's Court, and induced Lord Ballindine to get into his own gig, and
drive him as far as the mail-coach road.

"But you'll be four or five hours too soon," said Frank; "the coach
doesn't pass Ballyglass till three."

"I want to see those cattle of Rutledge's. I'll stay there, and maybe
get a bit of luncheon; it's not a bad thing to be provided for the
road."

"I'll tell you what, though," said Frank. "I want to go to Tuam, so you
might as well get the coach there; and if there's time to spare, you
can pay your respects to the bishop."

It was all the same to Mr Armstrong, and the two therefore started
for Tuam together. They had not, however, got above half way down
the avenue, when they saw another gig coming towards them; and,
after sundry speculations as to whom it might contain, Mr Armstrong
pronounced the driver to be "that dirty gallipot, Colligan."

It was Colligan; and, as the two gigs met in the narrow road, the
dirty gallipot took off his hat, and was very sorry to trouble Lord
Ballindine, but had a few words to say to him on very important and
pressing business.

Lord Ballindine touched his hat, and intimated that he was ready to
listen, but gave no signs of getting out of his gig.

"My lord," said Colligan, "it's particularly important, and if you
could, as a magistrate, spare me five minutes."

"Oh, certainly, Mr Colligan," said Frank; "that is, I'm rather
hurried--I may say very much hurried just at present. But still--I
suppose there's no objection to Mr Armstrong hearing what you have to
say?"

"Why, my lord," said Colligan, "I don't know. Your lordship can judge
yourself afterwards; but I'd rather--"

"Oh, I'll get down," said the parson. "I'll just take a walk among the
trees: I suppose the doctor won't be long?"

"If you wouldn't mind getting into my buggy, and letting me into his
lordship's gig, you could be following us on, Mr Armstrong," suggested
Colligan.

This suggestion was complied with. The parson and the doctor changed
places; and the latter, awkwardly enough, but with perfect truth,
whispered his tale into Lord Ballindine's ear.

At first, Frank had been annoyed at the interruption; but, as he
learned the cause of it, he gave his full attention to the matter, and
only interrupted the narrator by exclamations of horror and disgust.

When Doctor Colligan had finished, Lord Ballindine insisted on
repeating the whole affair to Mr Armstrong. "I could not take upon
myself," said he, "to advise you what to do; much less to tell you what
you should do. There is only one thing clear; you cannot let things
rest as they are. Armstrong is a man of the world, and will know what
to do; you cannot object to talking the matter over with him."

Colligan consented: and Armstrong, having been summoned, drove the
doctor's buggy up alongside of Lord Ballindine's gig.

"Armstrong," said Frank, "I have just heard the most horrid story that
ever came to my ears. That wretch, Barry Lynch, has tried to induce
Doctor Colligan to poison his sister!"

"What!" shouted Armstrong; "to poison his sister?"

"Gently, Mr Armstrong; pray don't speak so loud, or it'll be all
through the country in no time."

"Poison his sister!" repeated Armstrong. "Oh, it'll hang him! There's
no doubt it'll hang him! Of course you'll take the doctor's
information?"

"But the doctor hasn't tendered me any information," said Frank,
stopping his horse, so that Armstrong was able to get close up to his
elbow.

"But I presume it is his intention to do so?" said the parson.

"I should choose to have another magistrate present then," said Frank.
"Really, Doctor Colligan, I think the best thing you can do is to come
before myself and the stipendiary magistrate at Tuam. We shall be sure
to find Brew at home to-day."

"But, my lord," said Colligan, "I really had no intention of doing
that. I have no witnesses. I can prove nothing. Indeed, I can't say he
ever asked me to do the deed: he didn't say anything I could charge him
with as a crime: he only offered me the farm if his sister should die.
But I knew what he meant; there was no mistaking it: I saw it in his
eye."

"And what did you do, Doctor Colligan, at the time?" said the parson.

"I hardly remember," said the doctor; "I was so flurried. But I know I
knocked him down, and then I rushed out of the room. I believe I
threatened I'd have him hung."

"But you did knock him down?"

"Oh, I did. He was sprawling on the ground when I left him."

"You're quite sure you knocked him down?" repeated the parson.

It does me good to hear you laugh nowadays. Let us talk, by all means. I
am sure all this is only a foolish fit of melancholy, is it not?'

'Oh, no doubt it is. Let us try and talk, if you like.'

'I am too silent a man for you, Clara,' said her husband reflectively.

'It is certainly my duty to make an effort.'
'It is just as much mine,' she answered with an earnestness that attracted
his notice. She was thinking that unless she roused herself, the fearful
scene that had been enacted in her imagination might some day take
place in reality.

'No,' said Greifenstein. 'It is you who are ill, and it is you who must
be amused.

Now, what do you say to my proposition? Shall I read something to you?
Shall it be Goethe, or Schiller, or Heine? You know all the modern
writers well enough.'

'Something from Heine then, if you will,' answered Clara. 'You are so
kind! Perhaps he will make us laugh.'

'Yes,' echoed her husband.

'Perhaps Heine will make us laugh.'
The ghastly entertainment began, and continued for an hour, but the
merriment was not as great as had been anticipated. The writer's
marvellous wit was lost upon Greifenstein who, in the conscientiousness
of his attempt to read well and expressively, confused his own mind
to such an extent as to understand very little of what passed his
lips.

As for Clara, she closed her eyes and leaned back in her chair,
scarcely knowing what her mind was dwelling on, but conscious of
an added horror in her miserable life, so great that all before
seemed well-nigh insignificant.

She tried to listen from time to time, but her husband's voice sounded
as though it were far away, reaching her through some muffling
medium that intervened between her and him.

The clock of the castle struck ten, and Greifenstein closed the book
with a sort of military precision when he reached the end of the
sentence he was reading. Clara roused herself to thank him.

'It has been so good of you!' she said. 'I have enjoyed it very much.'

'We will read every evening, until you are better,' answered her husband
with great determination. And he kept his word, although his plan
for diverting the poor lady was not attended with much success.

Night after night he took his seat by the fire, exactly half an hour
after the evening meal was ended.

Night after night Clara sat with half-closed eyes, hearing his wooden
voice, as in a dream, and wondering how all would end.

There was no change in their lives or habits beyond the introduction
of what Greifenstein called the amusement of his wife.

It was all the same, the monotonous succession of morning and evening,
of night and noon and evening again.

Possibly the lives of these two persons might have continued to crawl
along in the narrow channel they had made for themselves during
many years more, if the events which had been so long preparing had
been retarded; for Greifenstein was a man of habit in everything,
incapable of weariness in the performance of what he considered to
be his duty, and Clara's really strong health might have carried
her through half a lifetime of exasperating stagnation.

Indeed, if things altered at all after the conversation about her
state, the change was for the better. A fictitious calm descended upon
the old house, and a certain gentleness found its way into the
relations of the couple which was agreeable to both.

With Clara this was the result of exhaustion and despair. She felt herself
wholly unable to bear any great disaster should it fall upon her, and
she was grateful to her husband, and prayed, if she prayed at all,
that both might die peacefully during those days.

She even had a vague belief that Heaven would not really bring about
that hideous catastrophe that haunted her dreams, and that forced
her to dream of it when she was waking.

Had she not been a faithful wife to the stern, grey man who had sat
opposite to her for five and twenty years?

Had she not been a fairly good mother to Greif, if not very loving,
nor very wise, at least what people call a good mother?

Her conscience told her that, at least, and she felt how great a comfort
it was to think that she had not been wholly bad. Moreover, she had been
placed in strange circumstances when she had done the deed, whatever
it was, and if she had not been as young at that time as she had
pretended to be, she had yet not been so old as to understand thoroughly
what she was doing. Heaven would surely not be so unkind as to visit
upon her now the sins of her youth; now, when a quarter of a century
of peaceful married life had intervened between that day and this;
now, when Greif himself was grown to a man's estate and was to be
married in his turn.

Surely, there was mercy for her. But if there were none, if
Heaven were to be more just than kind, what would become of her? The
thin blood beat in her hollow temples as she thought of it, and then
sank back suddenly to the tired heart whence it had risen. Above all
else, the thought of Greif was unbearable.

He, too, must know, if anything were known. He, too, would turn upon
her, and force her to drain the last dregs of the death-draught.
But she still believed and hoped, hoped and believed, that the day would
never come.

And yet it was at hand, now, after all those months of agonising
fear, just when she deluded herself with the sweet thought that
it might never come at all.

Greifenstein came home in the dusk one afternoon, and found a letter
upon his desk in his own room. He broke the seal and read it
while his teeth ground upon each other, and his face turned grey.

He did not utter a sound, he did not strike his forehead nor clench
his fist, nor fall into a chair. He only stiffened his neck a little
and stood silently gazing at the fire. After a moment's reflexion,
he tossed the letter into the flames and waited until it was quite
burnt. Then he rang the bell.

'Listen, Jacob,' he said to the servant who came, and his voice did
not tremble. 'A friend of mine has written to say that he is coming
to the forest to shoot. He comes alone, as I go myself. It is bad
weather, and he may find his way here at any hour.

When he presents himself, bring him immediately to this room and send for
me. I will not go far from the castle until he arrives.'
The servant asked the gentleman's name.

'Herr Brandt,' answered Greifenstein without hesitation.

The letter had informed him that Rieseneck's application to be included
in the amnesty had been absolutely refused, and that he had fled a
second time under an assumed name. He appealed to his brother to help
him over the frontier to Constance, and said that he might arrive at any
time after his letter.

When he was alone, Greifenstein sat down to consider the situation, after
carefully filling and lighting the pipe his son had brought him at
his last visit. He was in the habit of doing this every day when he came
home, and it seemed to him that to omit any detail of his ordinary
life would be to show an amount of emotion quite unworthy of himself.

It was one of those small acts, performed alone, which are the
truest indications of a man's character. If he was not able to smoke
his pipe as usual, it must be because he was unable to bear calmly what
had come upon him, and consequently was not fit to meet his wife at
dinner without betraying his anxiety. It was not an act that showed
indifference, as many would think. On the contrary, it was the expression
of his indomitably conscientious nature. To change one small thing in
his demeanour, even when he was alone, would have been to begin badly
and at a disadvantage.

He scrupulously put his feet upon the same spot on the fender at which
they usually rested when he came home, he sat in his accustomed
attitude, and he smoked with his accustomed solemnity.

It would be a mistake to exaggerate the importance which Rieseneck's
coming had in his eyes, as far as any material consequences to
himself were concerned.

There was no ruin before him, no inevitable disaster. He dreaded
the moral side of the incident, and worst of all the possibility
of his being obliged to tell Clara of the existence of his disgraced
brother. He knew well enough that the newspapers would contain an account
of Rieseneck's attempt, and he feared lest some journalist with a long
memory should recall the fact of the relationship. Like most men who
have formerly lived in a capital, he fancied that every one still
knew him, and respected him, and he attached immense importance to the
mere mention of his name. That he should be called the brother of a
disgraced and criminal officer in a journal, seemed to him a terrible
calamity, an almost unbearable blow to his pride. He did not guess that
he was as really forgotten as though he had been twenty years dead. The
days when he had worn a uniform seemed very near to him still, and
he could not realise that his own youth could seem so distant to
those who had once known him.

His whole nature revolted against the thought of meeting Rieseneck,
and though he was not troubled by an active imagination he could
not help thinking of the bitter words he would use in the interview.

There was nothing cynical in his moral composition. To him, honour
was a fact and not a prejudice, a priceless possession of his own,
a household idol for which he was at all times ready to sacrifice
every other consideration.

The existence of his brother was a rent in the wholeness of that
fact, a flaw in his title to that possession, a stain upon the divinity
of that domestic god.

Greifenstein was very unhappy, and his trouble took the form of resentment
against the offender, rather than of a mild and harmless self-pity.
He was hindered from forgetting and he would not forgive, for the
injury was real, as he saw it.

In crowded cities men have other things to do than to trouble their
peace concerning ideals. A neighbour, a friend, a relation, falls into
overwhelming disgrace--they pause a minute and then pass on, reflecting
with all the certainty gained by long experience, that the world
will soon forget, and that, after all is said, their brother's
infamy is no concern of theirs.

But when men who are scrupulously honourable themselves, and who respect
their own family traditions of honour more than anything else on earth,
are shut off from the world for many years, they cannot look at
such matters as city folks do.

The less they have to do the more they think of their household history,
and the greater is the pride they feel in reviewing the biography of
their race. A sort of medieval twilight descends upon their latter
years, and their souls receive the heraldic vision. They brood
gloomily over the misdeeds of some long-dead ancestor, and their
faces glow when they think of their crusading forefathers. They fight
again the battles of long ago, they charge with Welf or Weiblingen,
they follow the Kaiser to his coronation in imperial Rome, they
strive through the press of knights, they perish with Conradin in
Naples, they prick hotly after the standard of the great Rudolf,
they kill and riot throughout the Thirty Years' War, they shed their
heart's blood with Frederick, they fall at Austerlitz, they rise
at Leipzig, they are with Blucher at Waterloo, with 'Unser Fritz'
at Koniggratz, with Schmettow's gallant cuirassiers in the deadly
ride of Mars la Tour, and they land themselves each evening before
the carved escutcheon of the old chimney-piece at home, the proud
descendants of a race of heroes known to fame.

And yet, though all be true from first to last, fame knows little
of them.

Who remembers their names? Their fathers for ages were gentlemen like
themselves, never very great or powerful, sometimes poor, almost
insignificant in the great throng of light-hearted soldiers on
whose necks empires have rested, and by whose hands kingdoms have
been overthrown.

Probably not one of all those dead knights ever felt half the
pride in himself that is felt in him by his representative in the
nineteenth century, nor experienced half as much pleasure in gazing
at his battered shield with its half-defaced cognisance, as now brings
the blood to his descendant's cheek as he looks at the carved stone
semblance of the original. In the trained sight of this modern gentleman,
the past is more real than its own reality was long ago; he is more
loyal than the law, more royalist than the king, more protestant
than Luther, more conservative than a Chinese sage.

An insinuation against any member of his race, though he have been
dead since the first Crusade, is a direct insult to himself, to be
wiped out by personal combat.

His sleeping passions, if roused, take but one direction, to fight for
something, his king, his religion or his honour. His memories and
his prejudices are complicated, interwoven and entangled beyond
all belief; his character is simple, for his only principle is that
those prejudices and traditions are alike infallible and unassailable,
and that no sacrifice must be spared in defending them.

Such is the old-fashioned German country gentleman, and such was Hugo
von Greifenstein.

Rieseneck, a traitor to his country, the betrayer of a military
trust, condemned, a fugitive and publicly infamous, was about to
enter the sacred place of his brother's idols.

For a few hours at least he was to abide under the roof which sheltered
such precious memories. His abominable presence was to defile the
honourable dwelling of all the Greifensteins. Worse than that, his
execrated name was to be coupled with that of Greifenstein himself
in the public prints.

Matters could not be worse, in the estimation of the iron-grey man
who sat solemnly smoking his pipe before the fire, and straining
every faculty to maintain his usual composure even in his solitude.

The situation seemed unbearable, and yet it must be borne. Every
moment was in all likelihood bringing Rieseneck nearer, every
minute might be the last before his coming.

There was nothing to be done. Greifenstein had not even the
diversion of making preparations for the man's hurried journey, since
any show of preparation might be detrimental to the scheme.

His plan was to start in the early dawn of the next morning with
guns and dogs as though for a shooting expedition, to ride as far as
possible, then to leave the horses and to cross the frontier into
Switzerland.

Nothing could be easier, and he knew that Rieseneck was aware of the
fact from his knowledge of the locality. Moreover it was probable
that although the application for pardon had been refused, no attempt
would be made to arrest the fugitive. He would be allowed to leave the
country unmolested, as it would be considered impolitic to increase
the scandal by consigning him again to the fortress whence he had
escaped so many years before.

Greifenstein had nothing to fear for himself, and he cared nothing
what became of his brother, provided that he were not caught.
Nevertheless, he suffered extremely while he waited, for he dreaded
the meeting, as he could not have dreaded any material danger.

He was making a calculation with the object of fixing some limit
of time within which Rieseneck must arrive, and he came to the conclusion
that the catastrophe could not be far distant. Rieseneck would probably
come to the nearest railway station by train from Stuttgardt, and walk
thence to Greifenstein, leaving any luggage he might have with him
to be forwarded after he had made good his escape.

In that case, if he had started on the day when he wrote, his coming
might be only retarded a little by the fact of his being on foot, whereas
the lad who brought the post was mounted.

A knock at the door interrupted his reflexions.

Something told him that Rieseneck was at hand, but he turned his head
with studied calmness so that he could see the servant's face, and
held his pipe steadily between his teeth.

'Herr Brandt has arrived,' said the man, quietly, as though nothing
unusual were occurring.

Greifenstein, even in that moment, had the courage to scrutinise the
attendant's features, but their expression betrayed no suspicion.

'Show him in,' returned the master of the house in unshaken tones.
He rose slowly to his feet and stood with his back to the fire. The
light of the flames was far brighter than that of the solitary
lamp that stood upon the desk, and threw the vast black shadow of
Greifenstein's gaunt frame against the opposite wall, so that it
towered up like a spectre of fate from the floor to the carved brown
beams of the ceiling.

The servant threw the door wide open and stood aside, as a tall old
man entered the room.

CHAPTER XI

It is doubtful whether Greifenstein would have recognised his
brother, if he had met him under any other circumstances.

Forty years had passed since they had met, and both were old men. The
difference between their ages was not great, for Greifenstein's
father had died within the year of his son's birth, and his mother
had married again three years later.

In her turn she had died when both were young men, and from that
time Greifenstein had seen little of his half-brother, who had
been brought up by his own father in a different part of the
country.

Then young Rieseneck had entered the Prussian service, and a
few years later had been ruined by the consequences of his evil.

Greifenstein saw before him a tall man, with abundant white hair and
a snowy beard, of bronzed complexion, evidently strong in spite
of his years, chiefly remarkable for the heavy black eyebrows that
shaded his small grey eyes.

The latter were placed too near together, and the eyelids slanted downwards
at the outer side, which gave the face an expression of intelligence
and great cunning. Deep lines furrowed the high forehead, and descended
in broad curves from beneath the eyes till they lost themselves
in the beard.

Kuno von Rieseneck was evidently a man of strong feelings and passions,
of energetic temperament, clever, unscrupulous, but liable to go astray
after strange ideas, and possibly capable of something very like
fanaticism. It was indeed not credible that he should have done the
deeds which had wrecked his life, out of cold calculation, and yet
it was impossible to believe that he could be wholly disinterested
in anything he did.

The whole effect of his personality was disquieting.

He entered the room with slow steps, keeping his eyes fixed upon his
brother. The servant closed the door behind him, and the two men
were alone. Rieseneck paused when he reached the middle of the
apartment.
For a moment his features moved a little uneasily, and then he
spoke.

'Hugo, do you know me?'

'Yes,' answered Greifenstein, 'I know you very well.' He kept his hands
behind him and did not change his position as he stood before the
fire.

'You got my letter?' inquired the fugitive.

'Yes. I will do what you ask of me.'
The answers came in a hard, contemptuous voice, for Greifenstein was
almost choking with rage at being thus forced to receive and protect a
man whom he both despised and hated. But Rieseneck did not expect any
very cordial welcome, and his expression did not vary. 'I thank you,'
he answered. 'It is the only favour I ever asked of you, and I give you
my word it shall be the last.'
Greifenstein's piercing eyes gleamed dangerously, and for an instant
the anger that burned in him glowed visibly in his face.

'Your--' He would have said 'your word,' throwing into the two syllables
all the contempt he felt, for one whose word had been so broken. But
he checked himself gallantly. In spite of all, Rieseneck was his
guest and had come to him for protection, and he would not insult him.
'You shall be safe to-morrow night,' he said, controlling his
tongue.

But Rieseneck had heard the first word, and knew what should have
followed it.

He turned a little pale, bronzed though he was, and he let his hand
rest upon the back of a chair beside him.

'I will not trouble you further,' he said.

'If you will show me a place where I can sleep, I will be ready in
the morning.'

'No,' answered Greifenstein. 'That will not do. The servants know that
a visitor is in the house. They will expect to see you at dinner.
Besides, you are probably hungry.'
Perhaps he regretted having shown his brother, even by the suggestion
of a phrase, what was really in his heart, and the feeling of the
ancient guest-right made him relent a little.

'Sit down,' he added, as Rieseneck seemed to hesitate. 'It will be
necessary that you dine with us and meet my wife. We must not
excite suspicion.'

'You are married then?' said Rieseneck.

It was more like a thoughtful reflexion than a question. Though he had
written to his brother more than once, the latter's answers when he
vouchsafed any, had been curt and businesslike in the extreme.

'I have been married five and twenty years,' Greifenstein replied. It
was strange to be informing his brother of the fact. Rieseneck
sat down upon a high chair and rested his elbow upon the table.

Neither spoke for a long time, but Greifenstein resumed
his seat, relighted his pipe, and placed his feet upon the fender,
taking precisely the attitude in which he had been when his brother
was announced.

The situation was almost intolerable, but his habits helped him to bear
it.

'I was also married,' said Rieseneck at last, in a low voice, as
though speaking to himself.

'You never saw my wife?' he asked rather suddenly.

'No.'
'She died,' continued the other.

'It was very long ago--more than thirty years.'
'Indeed,' said Greifenstein, as though he cared very little to hear
more.

Again there was silence in the room, broken only by the crackling of the
fir logs in the fire and by the ticking of the clock in its tall carved
case in the corner. A full hour must elapse before the evening meal,
and Greifenstein did not know what to do with his unwelcome guest.

At last the latter took out a black South American cigar and lit it.
For a few moments he smoked thoughtfully, and then, as though the
fragrant fumes had the power to unloose his tongue, he again began to
talk.

'She died,' he said. 'She ruined me. Yes, did you never hear how
it was?

And yet I loved her.

She would not follow me. Then they sent me some of her hair and the
boy. But for her, it might never have happened, and yet I forgive
her. You never heard how it all happened?'

'I never inquired,' answered Greifenstein.

'You say she ruined you. How do you mean?'
'She made me do it. She was an enthusiast for liberty and revolution.
She filled my mind with ideas of the people's sovereignty. She talked
of nothing else.

She besought me on her knees to join her party, as she called it. She
flattered me with dreams of greatness in a great republic, she
illuminated crime in the light of heroism, she pushed me into secret
societies, and laughed at me for my want of courage.

I loved her, and she made a fool of me, worse than a fool, a traitor,
worse than a traitor, a murderer, for she persuaded me to give
the arms to the mob, she made me an outlaw, an exile, an object
of hatred to my countrymen, a thing loathsome to all who knew me.

And yet I loved her, even when it was all over, and I would have given
my soul to have her with me.'

Greifenstein's face expressed unutterable contempt for this man, who in
the strength and pride of youth had laid down his honour for a
woman's word, not even for her love, since he had possessed that
already.

'It seems to me,' he said, 'that there was one very simple remedy for
you.'
'A little lead in the right place.

I know. And yet I lived, and I live still. Why? I do not know. I believed
in the revolution, though she had forced the belief upon me, and I
continued to believe in it until long after I went to South America.
And when I had ceased to believe in it, no one cared whether I
lived or died. Then came this hope, and this blow. I could almost do
it now.'
Greifenstein looked at him curiously for a moment, and then rose
from his place and went deliberately to a huge, dark piece of
furniture that stood between the windows.

He brought back a polished mahogany case, unlocked it and set it
beside his brother upon the table, under the light of the lamp.

Rieseneck knew what he meant well enough, but he did not wince.
Barry Lynch, as sure as you now
stand in the presence of your Creator, whose name you so constantly
blaspheme, you endeavoured to instigate that man to murder your own
sister."

"Oh, Lord Ballindine!--oh, Lord Ballindine!" shrieked Barry, in his
agony, "don't desert me! pray, pray don't desert me! I didn't do it--I
never thought of doing it. We were at school together, weren't we?--And
you won't see me put upon this way. You mayn't think much of me in
other things, but you won't believe that a school-fellow of your own
ever--ever--ever--" Barry couldn't bring himself to use the words with
which his sentence should be finished, and so he flung himself back
into his armchair and burst into tears.

"You appeal to me, Mr Lynch," said Lord Ballindine, "and I must say
I most firmly believe you to be guilty. My only doubt is whether you
should not at once be committed for trial at the next assizes."

"Oh, my G----!" exclaimed Barry, and for some time he continued
blaspheming most horribly--swearing that there was a conspiracy against
him--accusing Mr Armstrong, in the most bitter terms, of joining with
Doctor Colligan and Martin Kelly to rob and murder him.

"Now, Mr Lynch," continued the parson, as soon as the unfortunate man
would listen to him, "as I before told you, I am in doubt--we are all
in doubt--whether or not a jury would hang you; and we think that we
shall do more good to the community by getting you out of the way,
than by letting you loose again after a trial which will only serve to
let everyone know how great a wretch there is in the county. We will,
therefore, give you your option either to stand your trial, or to leave
the country at once--and for ever."

"And my property?--what's to become of my property?" said Barry.

"Your property's safe, Mr Lynch; we can't touch that. We're not
prescribing any punishment to you. We fear, indeed we know, you're
beyond the reach of the law, or we shouldn't make the proposal." Barry
breathed freely again as he heard this avowal. "But you're not beyond
the reach of public opinion--of public execration--of general hatred,
and of a general curse. For your sister's sake--for the sake of Martin
Kelly, who is going to marry the sister whom you wished to murder,
and not for your own sake, you shall be allowed to leave the country
without this public brand being put upon your name. If you remain, no
one shall speak to you but as to a man who would have murdered his
sister: murder shall be everlastingly muttered in your ears; nor will
your going then avail you, for your character shall go with you, and
the very blackguards with whom you delight to assort, shall avoid
you as being too bad even for their society. Go now, Mr Lynch--go at
once;--leave your sister to happiness which you cannot prevent; and she
at least shall know nothing of your iniquity, and you shall enjoy the
proceeds of your property anywhere you will--anywhere, that is, but in
Ireland. Do you agree to this?"

"I'm an innocent man, Mr Armstrong. I am indeed."

"Very well," said the parson, "then we may as well go away, and leave
you to your fate. Come, Lord Ballindine, we can have nothing further to
say," and they again all rose from their seats.

"Stop, Mr Armstrong; stop," said Barry.

"Well," said the parson; for Barry repressed the words which were in
his mouth, when he found that his visitors did stop as he desired them.

"Well, Mr Lynch, what have you further to say."

"Indeed I am not guilty." Mr Armstrong put on his hat and rushed to the
door--"but--" continued Barry.

"I will have no 'buts,' Mr Lynch; will you at once and unconditionally
agree to the terms I have proposed?"

"I don't want to live in the country," said Barry; "the country's
nothing to me."

"You will go then, immediately?" said the parson.

"As soon as I have arranged about the property, I will," said Barry.

"That won't do," said the parson. "You must go at once, and leave your
property to the care of others. You must leave Dunmore _to-day_, for
ever."

"To-day!" shouted Barry.

"Yes, to-day. You can easily get as far as Roscommon. You have your
own horse and car. And, what is more, before you go, you must write to
your sister, telling her that you have made up your mind to leave the
country, and expressing your consent to her marrying whom she pleases."

"I can't go to-day," said Barry, sulkily. "Who's to receive my rents?
who'll send me my money?--besides--besides. Oh, come--that's nonsense.
I ain't going to be turned out in that style."

"You ain't in earnest, are you, about his going to-day?" whispered
Frank to the parson.

"I am, and you'll find he'll go, too," said Armstrong. "It must be
to-day--this very day, Mr Lynch. Martin Kelly will manage for you about
the property."

"Or you can send for Mr Daly, to meet you at Roscommon," suggested
Martin.

"Thank you for nothing," said Barry; "you'd better wait till you're
spoken to. I don't know what business you have here at all."

"The business that all honest men have to look after all rogues," said
Mr Armstrong. "Come, Mr Lynch, you'd better make up your mind to
prepare for your journey."

"Well, I won't--and there's an end of it," said Barry. "It's all
nonsense. You can't do anything to me: you said so yourself. I'm not
going to be made a fool of that way--I'm not going to give up my
property and everything."

"Don't you know, Mr Lynch," said the parson, "that if you are kept in
jail till April next, as will be your fate if you persist in staying
at Dunmore tonight, your creditors will do much more damage to your
property, than your own immediate absence will do? If Mr Daly is your
lawyer, send for him, as Martin Kelly suggests. I'm not afraid that he
will recommend you to remain in the country, even should you dare to
tell him of the horrid accusation which is brought against you. But at
any rate make up your mind, for if you do stay in Dunmore tonight it
shall be in the Bridewell, and your next move shall be to Galway."

Barry sat silent for a while, trying to think. The parson was like an
incubus upon him, which he was totally unable to shake off. He knew
neither how to resist nor how to give way. Misty ideas got into his
head of escaping to his bed-room and blowing his own brains out.
Different schemes of retaliation and revenge flitted before him, but
he could decide on nothing. There he sat, silent, stupidly gazing at
nothing, while Lord Ballindine and Mr Armstrong stood whispering over
the fire.

"I'm afraid we're in the wrong: I really think we are," said Frank.

"We must go through with it now, any way," said the parson. "Come, Mr
Lynch, I will give you five minutes more, and then I go;" and he pulled
out his watch, and stood with his back to the fire, looking at it. Lord
Ballindine walked to the window, and Martin Kelly and Doctor Colligan
sat in distant parts of the room, with long faces, silent and solemn,
breathing heavily. How long those five minutes appeared to them, and
how short to Barry! The time was not long enough to enable him to come
to any decision: at the end of the five minutes he was still gazing
vacantly before him: he was still turning over in his brain, one after
another, the same crowd of undigested schemes.

"The time is out, Mr Lynch: will you go?" said the parson.

"I've no money," hoarsely croaked Barry.

"If that's the only difficulty, we'll raise money for him," said Frank.

"I'll advance him money," said Martin.

"Do you mean you've no money at all?" said the parson.

"Don't you hear me say so?" said Barry.

"And you'll go if you get money--say ten pounds?" said the parson.

"Ten pounds! I can go nowhere with ten pounds. You know that well
enough."

"I'll give him twenty-five," said Martin. "I'm sure his sister'll do
that for him."

"Say fifty," said Barry, "and I'm off at once."

"I haven't got it," said Martin.

"No," said the parson; "I'll not see you bribed to go: take the
twenty-five--that will last you till you make arrangements about your
property. We are not going to pay you for going, Mr Lynch."

"You seem very anxious about it, any way."

"I am anxious about it," rejoined the parson. "I am anxious to save
your sister from knowing what it was that her brother wished to
accomplish."

Barry scowled at him as though he would like, if possible, to try his
hand at murdering him; but he did not answer him again. Arrangements
were at last made for Barry's departure, and off he went, that very
day--not to Roscommon, but to Tuam; and there, at the instigation of
Martin, Daly the attorney took upon himself the division and temporary
management of the property. From thence, with Martin's, or rather with
his sister's twenty-five pounds in his pocket, he started to that
Elysium for which he had for some time so ardently longed, and soon
landed at Boulogne, regardless alike of his sister, his future brother,
Lord Ballindine, or Mr Armstrong. The parson had found it quite
impossible to carry out one point on which he had insisted. He could
not induce Barry Lynch to write to his sister: no, not a line; not a
word. Had it been to save him from hanging he could hardly have induced
himself to write those common words, "_dear sister_".

"Oh! you can tell her what you like," said he. "It's you're making me
go away at once in this manner. Tell her whatever confounded lies you
like; tell her I'm gone because I didn't choose to stay and see her
make a fool of herself--and that's the truth, too. If it wasn't for
that I wouldn't move a step for any of you."

He went, however, as I have before said, and troubled the people of
Dunmore no longer, nor shall he again trouble us.


"Oh! but Martin, what nonsense!" said the widow, coaxingly to her son,
that night before she went to bed. "The lord wouldn't be going up there
just to wish him good bye--and Parson Armstrong too. What the dickens
could they be at there so long? Come, Martin--you're safe with me, you
know; tell us something about it now."

"Nonsense, mother; I've nothing to tell: Barry Lynch has left the place
for good and all, that's all about it."

"God bless the back of him, thin; he'd my lave for going long since.
But you might be telling us what made him be starting this way all of a
heap."

"Don't you know, mother, he was head and ears in debt?"

"Don't tell me," said the widow. "Parson Armstrong's not a sheriff's
officer, that he should be looking after folks in debt."

"No, mother, he's not, that I know of; but he don't like, for all that,
to see his tithes walking out of the country."

"Don't be coming over me that way, Martin. Barry Lynch, nor his father
before him, never held any land in Ballindine parish."

"Didn't they--well thin, you know more than I, mother, so it's no use
my telling you," and Martin walked off to bed.

"I'll even you, yet, my lad," said she, "close as you are; you see
else. Wait awhile, till the money's wanting, and then let's see who'll
know all about it!" And the widow slapped herself powerfully on that
part where her pocket depended, in sign of the great confidence she had
in the strength of her purse.

"Did I manage that well?" said the parson, as Lord Ballindine drove him
home to Kelly's Court, as soon as the long interview was over. "If I
can do as well at Grey Abbey, you'll employ me again, I think!"

"Upon my word, then, Armstrong," said Frank, "I never was in such hot
water as I have been all this day: and, now it's over, to tell you the
truth, I'm sorry we interfered. We did what we had no possible right to
do."

"Nonsense, man. You don't suppose I'd have dreamed of letting him off,
if the law could have touched him? But it couldn't. No magistrates in
the county could have committed him; for he had done, and, as far as
I can judge, had said, literally nothing. It's true we know what he
intended; but a score of magistrates could have done nothing with him:
as it is, we've got him out of the country: he'll never come back
again."

"What I mean is, we had no business to drive him out of the country
with threats."

"Oh, Ballindine, that's nonsense. One can keep no common terms with
such a blackguard as that. However, it's done now; and I must say I
think it was well done."

"There's no doubt of your talent in the matter, Armstrong: upon my soul
I never saw anything so cool. What a wretch--what an absolute fiend the
fellow is!"

"Bad enough," said the parson. "I've seen bad men before, but I think
he's the worst I ever saw. What'll Mrs O'Kelly say of my coming in this
way, without notice?"

The parson enjoyed his claret at Kelly's Court that evening, after his
hard day's work, and the next morning he started for Grey Abbey.


XXXVI.  MR ARMSTRONG VISITS GREY ABBEY ON A DELICATE MISSION


Lord Cashel certainly felt a considerable degree of relief when his
daughter told him that Lord Kilcullen had left the house, and was on
his way to Dublin, though he had been forced to pay so dearly for the
satisfaction, had had to falsify his solemn assurance that he would
not give his son another penny, and to break through his resolution of
acting the Roman father [50]. He consoled himself with the idea that he had
been actuated by affection for his profligate son; but such had not
been the case. Could he have handed him over to the sheriff's officer
silently and secretly, he would have done so; but his pride could not
endure the reflection that all the world should know that bailiffs had
forced an entry into Grey Abbey.

     [FOOTNOTE 50: Roman father--Lucius Junius Brutus, legendary
                   founder of the Roman republic, was said to have
                   passed sentence of death on his two sons for
                   participating in a rebellion.]

He closely questioned Lady Selina, with regard to all that had passed
between her and her brother.

"Did he say anything?" at last he said--"did he say anything
about--about Fanny?"

"Not much, papa; but what he did say, he said with kindness and
affection," replied her ladyship, glad to repeat anything in favour of
her brother.

"Affection--pooh!" said the earl. "He has no affection; no affection
for any one; he has no affection even for me.--What did he say about
her, Selina?"

"He seemed to wish she should marry Lord Ballindine."

"She may marry whom she pleases, now," said the earl. "I wash my hands
of her. I have done my best to prevent what I thought a disgraceful
match for her--"

"It would not have been disgraceful, papa, had she married him six
months ago."

"A gambler and a _roué_!" said the earl, forgetting, it is to be
supposed, for the moment, his own son's character. "She'll marry him
now, I suppose, and repent at her leisure. I'll give myself no further
trouble about it."

The earl thought upon the subject, however, a good deal; and before Mr
Armstrong's arrival he had all but made up his mind that he must again
swallow his word, and ask his ward's lover back to his house. He had at
any rate become assured that if he did not do so, some one else would
do it for him.

Mr Armstrong was, happily, possessed of a considerable stock of
self-confidence, and during his first day's journey, felt no want of it
with regard to the delicate mission with which he was entrusted. But
when he had deposited his carpet-bag at the little hotel at Kilcullen
bridge, and found himself seated on a hack car, and proceeding to Grey
Abbey, he began to feel that he had rather a difficult part to play;
and by the time that the house was in sight, he felt himself completely
puzzled as to the manner in which he should open his negotiation.

He had, however, desired the man to drive to the house, and he could
not well stop the car in the middle of the demesne, to mature his
plans; and when he was at the door he could not stay there without
applying for admission. So he got his card-case in his hand, and rang
the bell. After a due interval, which to the parson did not seem a bit
too long, the heavy-looking, powdered footman appeared, and announced
that Lord Cashel was at home; and, in another minute Mr Armstrong found
himself in the book-room.

It was the morning after Lord Kilcullen's departure, and Lord Cashel
was still anything but comfortable. Her ladyship had been bothering him
about the poor boy, as she called her son, now that she learned he was
in distress; and had been beseeching him to increase his allowance.
The earl had not told his wife the extent of their son's pecuniary
delinquencies, and consequently she was greatly dismayed when her
husband very solemnly said,

"My lady, Lord Kilcullen has no longer any allowance from me."

"Good gracious!" screamed her ladyship; "no allowance?--how is the poor
boy to live?"

"That I really cannot tell. I cannot even guess; but, let him live how
he may, I will not absolutely ruin myself for his sake."

The interview was not a comfortable one, either to the father or
mother. Lady Cashel cried a great deal, and was very strongly of
opinion that her son would die of cold and starvation: "How could
he get shelter or food, any more than a common person, if he had no
allowance? Mightn't he, at any rate, come back, and live at Grey
Abbey?--That wouldn't cost his father anything." And then the countess
remembered how she had praised her son to Mrs Ellison, and the bishop's
wife; and she cried worse than ever, and was obliged to be left to
Griffiths and her drops.

This happened on the evening of Lord Kilcullen's departure, and on the
next morning her ladyship did not appear at breakfast. She was weak
and nervous, and had her tea in her own sitting-room. There was no one
sitting at breakfast but the earl, Fanny, and Lady Selina, and they
were all alike, stiff, cold, and silent. The earl felt as if he were
not at home even in his own breakfast-parlour; he felt afraid of his
ward, as though he were conscious that she knew how he had intended
to injure her: and, as soon as he had swallowed his eggs, he muttered
something which was inaudible to both the girls, and retreated to his
private den.

He had not been there long before the servant brought in our friend's
name. "The Rev. George Armstrong", written on a plain card. The parson
had not put the name of his parish, fearing that the earl, knowing
from whence he came, might guess his business, and decline seeing him.
As it was, no difficulty was made, and the parson soon found himself
_tête-à-tête_ with the earl.

"I have taken the liberty of calling on you, Lord Cashel," said Mr
Armstrong, having accepted the offer of a chair, "on a rather delicate
mission."

The earl bowed, and rubbed his hands, and felt more comfortable than he
had done for the last week. He liked delicate missions coming to him,
for he flattered himself that he knew how to receive them in a delicate
manner; he liked, also, displaying his dignity to strangers, for he
felt that strangers stood rather in awe of him: he also felt, though he
did not own it to himself, that his manner was not so effective with
people who had known him some time.

"I may say, a very delicate mission," said the parson; "and one I would
not have undertaken had I not known your lordship's character for
candour and honesty."

Lord Cashel again bowed and rubbed his hands.

"I am, my lord, a friend of Lord Ballindine; and as such I have taken
the liberty of calling on your lordship."

"A friend of Lord Ballindine?" said the earl, arching his eyebrows, and
assuming a look of great surprise.

"A very old friend, my lord; the clergyman of his parish, and for many
years an intimate friend of his father. I have known Lord Ballindine
since he was a child."

"Lord Ballindine is lucky in having such a friend: few young men now,
I am sorry to say, care much for their father's friends. Is there
anything, Mr Armstrong, in which I can assist either you or his
lordship?"

"My lord," said the parson, "I need not tell you that before I took the
perhaps unwarrantable liberty of troubling you, I was made acquainted
with Lord Ballindine's engagement with your ward, and with the manner
in which that engagement was broken off."

"And your object is, Mr Armstrong--?"

"My object is to remove, if possible, the unfortunate misunderstanding
between your lordship and my friend."

"Misunderstanding, Mr Armstrong?--There was no misunderstanding between
us. I really think we perfectly understood each other. Lord Ballindine
was engaged to my ward; his engagement, however, being contingent on
his adoption of a certain line of conduct. This line of conduct his
lordship did not adopt; perhaps, he used a wise discretion; however, I
thought not. I thought the mode of life which he pursued--"

"But--"

"Pardon me a moment, Mr Armstrong, and I shall have said all which
appears to me to be necessary on the occasion; perhaps more than is
necessary; more probably than I should have allowed myself to say, had
not Lord Ballindine sent as his ambassador the clergyman of his parish
and the friend of his father," and Lord Cashel again bowed and rubbed
his hands. "I thought, Mr Armstrong, that your young friend appeared
wedded to a style of life quite incompatible with his income--with
his own income as a single man, and the income which he would have
possessed had he married my ward. I thought that their marriage would
only lead to poverty and distress, and I felt that I was only doing my
duty to my ward in expressing this opinion to her. I found that she
was herself of the same opinion; that she feared a union with Lord
Ballindine would not ensure happiness either to him or to herself. His
habits were too evidently those of extravagance, and hers had not been
such as to render a life of privation anything but a life of misery."

"I had thought--"

"One moment more, Mr Armstrong, and I shall have done. After
mature consideration, Miss Wyndham commissioned me to express her
sentiments,--and I must say they fully coincided with my own,--to Lord
Ballindine, and to explain to him, that she found herself obliged
to--to--to retrace the steps which she had taken in the matter. I did
this in a manner as little painful to Lord Ballindine as I was able.
It is difficult, Mr Armstrong, to make a disagreeable communication
palatable; it is very difficult to persuade a young man who is in love,
to give up the object of his idolatry; but I trust Lord Ballindine
will do me the justice to own that, on the occasion alluded to, I said
nothing unnecessarily harsh--nothing calculated to harass his feelings.
I appreciate and esteem Lord Ballindine's good qualities, and I much
regretted that prudence forbad me to sanction the near alliance he was
anxious to do me the honour of making with me."

Lord Cashel finished his harangue, and felt once more on good terms
with himself. He by no means intended offering any further vehement
resistance to his ward's marriage. He was, indeed, rejoiced to have
an opportunity of giving way decently. But he could not resist the
temptation of explaining his conduct, and making a speech.

"My lord," said the parson, "what you tell me is only a repetition of
what I heard from my young friend."

"I am glad to hear it. I trust, then, I may have the pleasure of
feeling that Lord Ballindine attributes to me no personal unkindness?"

"Not in the least, Lord Cashel; very far from it. Though Lord
Ballindine may not be--may not hitherto have been, free from the
follies of his age, he has had quite sense enough to appreciate your
lordship's conduct."

"I endeavoured, at any rate, that it should be such as to render me
liable to no just imputation of fickleness or cruelty."

"No one would for a moment accuse your lordship of either. It is my
knowledge of your lordship's character in this particular which has
induced me to undertake the task of begging you to reconsider the
subject. Lord Ballindine has, you are aware, sold his race-horses."

"I had heard so, Mr Armstrong; though, perhaps, not on good authority."

"He has; and is now living among his own tenantry and friends at
Kelly's Court. He is passionately, devotedly attached to your ward,
Lord Cashel; and with a young man's vanity he still thinks that she may
not be quite indifferent to him."

"It was at her own instance, Mr Armstrong, that his suit was rejected."

"I am well aware of that, my lord. But ladies, you know, do sometimes
mistake their own feelings. Miss Wyndham must have been attached to my
friend, or she would not have received him as her lover. Will you, my
lord, allow me to see Miss Wyndham? If she still expresses indifference
to Lord Ballindine, I will assure her that she shall be no further
persecuted by his suit. If such be not the case, surely prudence need
not further interfere to prevent a marriage desired by both the persons
most concerned. Lord Ballindine is not now a spendthrift, whatever he
may formerly have been; and Miss Wyndham's princely fortune, though it
alone would never have induced my friend to seek her hand, will make
the match all that it should be. You will not object, my lord, to my
seeing Miss Wyndham?"

"Mr Armstrong--really--you must be aware such a request is rather
unusual."

"So are the circumstances," replied the parson. "They also are unusual.
I do not doubt Miss Wyndham's wisdom in rejecting Lord Ballindine,
when, as you say, he appeared to be wedded to a life of extravagance.
I have no doubt she put a violent restraint on her own feelings;
exercised, in fact, a self-denial which shows a very high tone of
character, and should elicit nothing but admiration; but circumstances
are much altered."

Lord Cashel continued to raise objections to the parson's request,
though it was, throughout the interview, his intention to accede to it.
At last, he gave up the point, with much grace, and in such a manner
as he thought should entitle him to the eternal gratitude of his ward,
Lord Ballindine, and the parson. He consequently rang the bell, and
desired the servant to give his compliments to Miss Wyndham and tell
her that the Rev. Mr Armstrong wished to see her, alone, upon business
of importance.

Mr Armstrong felt that his success was much greater than he had had any
reason to expect, from Lord Ballindine's description of his last visit
at Grey Abbey. He had, in fact, overcome the only difficulty. The
appellation is probably derived from the custom of playing a kind of
game, at the opening of the term, which is called the fox- hunt,
and in which the novices, riding astride of chairs, are made to run
the gauntlet through the 'fellows' who are armed with blackened corks,
and who, without moving from their places, attempt to smudge the faces
of the youngsters as they hop past. These 'foxes' are young students
who have just joined, and who are not admitted to the rank of fellows
until they have fought a certain number of times.

They are raised to the higher dignity after a ballot, at which they are
not present, and the term of probation generally lasts six months,
or one term.

The fellows, or Burschen, are full-fledged Korps students, eligible
to become officers. The officers are three, and are called respectively
the first, second and third, 'in charge.' The first is the chief, who
presides at formal meetings and in the drinking-hall, where the Korps
assembles officially on two evenings of the week.

He also represents the Korps at the weekly meetings of all the representatives.
The second in charge manages all affairs relative to fighting, and is
personally responsible to the association for all formalities relating
to the duels of its members.

If any fellow, or novice, has challenged, or been challenged by, any one
else, he must immediately report the affair to the second in charge,
who arranges the meeting for him, and warns him, at least twelve hours
beforehand, of the time appointed. The third in charge is secretary
and treasurer; he keeps the minutes of all meetings, collects the dues
from the members, pays the bills, and is responsible for the financial
department and correspondence.

In well-conducted Korps, and there are many such, the president considers
himself morally bound to see that all the members attend their
lectures regularly.

That the associations are not generally mere idle, riotous bands of
students, is sufficiently shown by the fact that almost every prominent
man in German public life has belonged to one of them, from the great
chancellor downwards. Generally speaking, too, each novice is considered
to be personally under the charge of one of the fellows, whose duty
it is to keep him out of trouble and to see that he is not idle. It
will be seen that the system of organisation is good, and that in
reality it has a strong military element, like most organisations
which find favour in Germany.

But if it is military it is also militant, and it is the fact that
fighting is one of its chief objects, which has caused it to be so
much abused by foreigners. It is necessary in the first place to understand
the conditions of the sanguinary battles between the Korps, and the
points by which they are distinguished from the more serious affairs
which are occasionally settled by appeal to arms.

The ordinary student's duel is not a dangerous affair, though it is
often far more serious than is commonly supposed. The weapon used is a
long, light rapier, square at the point, two-edged and sharpened like a
razor down the whole length of the front, and to about nine inches
from the point at the back. The hilt is a roomy basket of iron,
though in some Universities a bell-hilted sword is used, and in that
case the guard is similar to the first position in sabre fencing or
single stick.

The blade is very pliable and not highly tempered, so that in unskilful
hands it is apt to bend and become useless.

The law requires that the combatants should both wear an iron
protection over the eyes, lest the loss of sight should render the
student useless for military service. To protect life also, a heavy
silk scarf bandage is placed round the throat, completely protecting
the jugular vein and the carotid artery."Miss Wyndham," he said, "I have come a long way to
call on you, at the request of a friend of yours--a very dear and old
friend of mine--at the request of Lord Ballindine."

Fanny's countenance became deeply suffused at her lover's name, but the
parson did not observe it; indeed he hardly ventured to look in her
face. She merely said, in a voice which seemed to him to be anything
but promising, "Well, sir?" The truth was, she did not know what to
say. Had she dared, she would have fallen on her knees before her
lover's friend, and sworn to him how well she loved him.

"When Lord Ballindine was last at Grey Abbey, Miss Wyndham, he had not
the honour of an interview with you."

"No, sir," said Fanny. Her voice, look, and manner were still sedate
and courtly; her heart, however, was beating so violently that she
hardly knew what she said.

"Circumstances, I believe, prevented it," said the parson. Yet
for months he had been hiding like a rat in a hole, unable to show
even his altered face by night or day without risk, unless another
risk were courted by three inches of conspicuous crepe.

Then thus far our rewards had oftener than not been no reward at all."The very decided tone in which your uncle then spoke to him, has made
Lord Ballindine feel that any further visit to Grey Abbey on his own
part would be an intrusion."

"I never--" said Fanny, "I never--"

"You never authorised so harsh a message, you would say. It is not the
harshness of the language, but the certainty of the fact, that has
destroyed my friend's happiness. If such were to be the case--if it
were absolutely necessary that the engagement between you and Lord
Ballindine should be broken off, the more decided the manner in which
it were done, the better. Lord Ballindine now wishes--I am a bad
messenger in such a case as this, Miss Wyndham: it is, perhaps, better
to tell you at once a plain tale. A lover of literature, and aspiring to
promote its extension and improvement, I sometimes form projects for the
adoption of others--sensible, be it also said, of the extent of my
own engagements with certain learned societies.

One of these projects has been a tabular view of the literary
biography of the British Islands. In the midst of my reflections on
the plans of Blair, Priestly, Playfair, Oberlin, Tytler, Jarry de
Mancy, &c. I received a specimen of a _Bibliographie biographique_, by
Edouard-Marie Oettinger, now in the press at Leipzic.

As books multiply, the inexpediency of attempting general bibliography
becomes more {43} and more apparent. Meritorious as are the works
of Brunet and Ebert, and useful as they may be to _collectors_,
they are inadequate to the wants of _men of letters_."Say the one word 'go',
Miss Wyndham, and you need not pain yourself by any further speech. I
will at once be gone."

Fanny strove hard to keep her composure, and to make some fitting reply
to Mr Armstrong, but she was unable. Her heart was too full; she was
too happy. She had, openly, and in spite of rebuke, avowed her love to
her uncle, her aunt, to Lady Selina, and her cousin. But she could not
bring herself to confess it to Mr Armstrong. At last she said:

"I am much obliged to you for your kindness, Mr Armstrong. Perhaps I
owe it to Lord Ballindine to--to . . . I will ask my uncle, sir, to
write to him."

"I shall write to Lord Ballindine this evening, Miss Wyndham; will you
intrust me with no message? I came from him, to see you, with no other
purpose. I must give him some news: I must tell him I have seen you.
May I tell him not to despair?"

"Tell him--tell him--" said Fanny,--and she paused to make up her mind
as to the words of her message,--"tell him to come himself." And,
hurrying from the room, she left the parson alone, to meditate on the
singular success of his mission. He stood for about half an hour,
thinking over what had occurred, and rejoicing greatly in his mind that
he had undertaken the business. "What fools men are about women!" he
said at last, to himself. Upon the third of June the following Infants
all born in the parish of Brenchley were baptized in this parish Church,
by an order granted from Sir John Sedley, Knight and Baronett, Sir
John Rayney, and Sir Isaac Sedley, Knights:--
"Whereas complaints have often been made unto us by many of the principal
inhabitants of the Parish of Brenchley, that they having desired Mr.
Gilbert, minister of the said Parish, to baptize their children,
and according to the Directorie offered to present them before the
Congregation, he hath neglected or refused so to do; whereby divers
infants remain unbaptized, some of them above a year old, expressly
contrary to the said Directorie.

VENI; VIDI; VICI [51]


     [FOOTNOTE 51: Veni; vidi; vici--(Latin) Julius Caesar's terse
                   message to the Senate announcing his victory over
                   King Pharnaces II of Pontus in 47 B.C.: "I came,
                   I saw, I conquered."]

The two following letters for Lord Ballindine were sent off, in the
Grey Abbey post-bag, on the evening of the day on which Mr Armstrong
had arrived there. They were from Mr Armstrong and Lord Cashel. That
from the former was first opened.


   Grey Abbey, April, 1844

   Dear Frank,

