Produced by Roger Frank and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


The
Tale Of
Major Monkey

BY
ARTHUR SCOTT BAILEY

Author of
THE CUFFY BEAR BOOKS
SLEEPY-TIME TALES, ETC.

Illustrations by
Lawrence Brehm

GROSSET & DUNLAP
PUBLISHERS NEW YORK


Copyright, 1919, by
GROSSET & DUNLAP
PRINTED IN U.S.A.


[Illustration: "There's a Tiger inside this Tree!"]


CONTENTS

I     Strange Whispers                          1
II    No 'Possum                                6
III   Getting Acquainted                       11
IV    Wanted--A Lodging                        16
V     Meeting Major Monkey                     22
VI    Too Many Disputes                        28
VII   The Major Has a Pain                     33
VIII  A Secret                                 39
IX    The Major Has a Plan                     45
X     The New Army                             50
XI    War in the Woods                         56
XII   Over and Under                           61
XIII  The Major Hesitates                      65
XIV   Throwing Stones                          70
XV    The Retreat                              75
XVI   The Major's Trouble                      81
XVII  Major Monkey Confesses                   86
XVIII Planning a Journey                       92
XIX   The Major's Scheme                       97
XX    A Fast Ride                             102
XXI   A Sweet Tooth                           108
XXII  Caught!                                 113
XXIII The Major Goes South                    117


The Tale of Major Monkey

I

Strange Whispers


The wild folk in Pleasant Valley were whispering strange stories to
one another. If the stories were true, they were most amazing. And if
they were merely made up to cause talk, certainly they succeeded.

Perhaps if somebody less tricky than Peter Mink and Tommy Fox had
started these odd tales, the rest of the wild folk might have been
quicker to believe them.

Anyhow, the news offered the best of excuses for gossip. And many of
the field- and forest-people repeated it so often that they almost
began to believe it themselves.

All but old Mr. Crow. He declared stoutly that the whole thing was
nothing but a hoax.

"You can't fool me!" he told people. But when they said that they had
no intention of trying to, he had to change his statement. "I mean"--he
explained--"I mean that neither Tommy Fox nor Peter Mink can fool me.
They can't make me believe that they've seen anybody hanging by his
tail in a tree-top."

"Why not?" asked Mr. Crow's cousin, Jasper Jay.

"_Becaws_----" said Mr. Crow. And then he corrected himself once more.
"Because," he replied, "no 'possum ever came so far North as this.
I've spent a good many winters in the South, and I ought to know. And
besides," he added, "although a 'possum can hang by his tail, there
never was one that could throw a stick or a stone. And I ought to
know, for I've spent a good many winters in the South, where the
'possums live."

Everybody had to admit that old Mr. Crow must know what he was talking
about. And people began to feel rather foolish when they realized how
near they had been to letting those two rascals--Peter Mink and Tommy
Fox--deceive them.

As for old Mr. Crow, having persuaded his neighbors to his way of
thinking, he began to be more pleased with himself than ever. And he
spent a good deal of time sitting in a tall tree near the cornfield,
with his head on one side, hoping that his friends would notice how
wise he looked.

He was engaged in that agreeable pastime one afternoon
when--_thump!_--something struck the limb on which he was perched.

Mr. Crow gave a squawk and a jump. And then he glanced quickly toward
the ground.

There was no one anywhere in sight. So Mr. Crow looked somewhat silly.
For a moment he had thought that Johnnie Green had thrown something at
him. But he saw at once that he was mistaken. Of course it could have
been nothing more than a dead branch falling.

He settled himself again, trying to appear as if he hadn't been
startled, when--_plump!_--something gave him a smart blow on his back.

Old Mr. Crow flopped hastily into a neighboring tree. And this time he
looked up instead of down.

At first he could see nothing unusual. And he had almost made up his
mind that something had fallen out of the sky, when a head showed
itself from behind a limb and a queer, wrinkled face peered at him.

Mr. Crow did not recognize the face. It was an odd one. In fact, he
thought he had never seen an odder. But if he thought the face a queer
one, it was not half as peculiar as the stranger's actions.

For, as Mr. Crow watched him, the stranger slipped into full view,
hanging by his tail and one hand from a limb, while with the other
hand he waved a red cap.

Old Mr. Crow's mouth fell open. For a time he said never a word.

And for him, that was quite out of the ordinary.


II

No 'Possum


At first old Mr. Crow could scarcely believe his eyes. He stared and
stared. Certainly it was no 'possum that he saw. And yet the stranger
was hanging by his tail.

There could be no doubt about that. Even as Mr. Crow watched him he
waved both hands at Mr. Crow, and swung by his tail alone.

The old gentleman was terribly upset. During all the summers he had
spent in Pleasant Valley he had never seen any such person there
before.

For a moment Mr. Crow was worried about himself. He wondered if he was
not ill. He knew he had eaten a good deal of corn that day. And he
half hoped that that was the trouble--that perhaps he saw something
that wasn't really in the tree at all.

Then he remembered the blow on his back. Had the queer person in the
tree-top struck him?... Mr. Crow grew angry.

"Did you hit me?" he called.

"I'm not sure," said the stranger. "But I _think_ I did, for I saw you
jump."

"Then you threw something at me!" Mr. Crow screamed.

"Oh, no!" the other replied. "I didn't throw anything at you, sir. I
merely dropped something on your back."

Mr. Crow choked. Perhaps it was as well that he could not speak just
then. He coughed and spluttered and swallowed and swayed back and
forth, trying to get his breath. And he had begun, at last to feel
better, when--_biff!_--something struck him again and all but knocked
him over.

The stranger gave a shrill whistle.

"I _threw_ something that time!" he jeered.

Old Mr. Crow felt that he had been terribly insulted. He looked as
dignified as he could. And he would have turned his back on the
stranger--had he dared.

While he was wondering whether he had better fly away, or stay and
quarrel with the rude person who had pelted him, the boorish stranger
leaped from the tall tree into the smaller one where Mr. Crow was
sitting. Then, dropping nimbly from limb to limb, with the help of his
hands and his feet and his tail, he stopped at last when he had
reached Mr. Crow's level.

One thing was certain. The stranger was bold as brass. He looked Mr.
Crow up and down. And then he said:

"You're a gay old bird! What's your name?"

Now, no doubt some people would have been angry. But Mr. Crow rather
liked to be called gay, because he couldn't help looking solemn. And
most people knew he was very old. And everybody was aware he was a
bird. So he said hoarsely:

"My name is Mister Crow--and please don't forget the _Mister_."

The stranger put on his flat-topped red cap and touched the visor
smartly with his right hand, in a military manner.

Old Mr. Crow couldn't help admiring the newcomer's clothes. He wore a
red coat trimmed with gold braid, and bright blue trousers.

"That's a handsome suit that you have on," Mr. Crow observed. "I
shouldn't mind having one like it myself."

The stranger seemed pleased. And he touched his cap again.

"I'm afraid you can't have a suit like this," he said. "It's a
_uniform_--that's what it is. And, of course, a plain _Mister_ like you
can't wear a uniform. But I wear one because I'm a soldier."

Old Mr. Crow was disappointed. But he soon brightened up. Though he
wasn't a soldier himself, at least it was pleasant to know one. So he
decided to forget that he had been angry with the stranger.

"What's your name?" he asked.

"Major Monkey," said the newcomer, knocking off his cap with one hand
and catching it with the other as it fell. "When you speak to me,
please don't forget the _Major_," he added.


III

Getting Acquainted


Major Monkey and old Mr. Crow had a long talk. They got on famously
together, because the old gentleman liked to pry into other people's
affairs and the Major loved to talk about himself.

In reply to Mr. Crow's questions, Major Monkey explained that he was a
great traveller. And having found himself in the village a few miles
away, he had taken a notion to see the surrounding country.

"This is a delightful spot," the Major remarked. "And if your
neighbors are half as pleasant as you are, I think I'll stay right
here for the present."

Naturally, old Mr. Crow was flattered. He couldn't remember when
anybody had said he was pleasant.

"I hope you will settle in Pleasant Valley," he told Major Monkey. "As
for the neighbors--well, you'll find them a queer lot, mostly."

"What's the matter with them?" the Major asked him.

Thereupon old Mr. Crow shook his head.

"They're not at all like me," he replied slowly.

"Of course, there's my cousin, Jasper Jay. He's not a bad sort--except
that he's rude, noisy, and a good deal of a rascal. But the
others--well, most of them are too greedy. If I didn't watch this
cornfield closely some of them wouldn't care if they didn't leave a
single kernel for anybody else."

"Do you like corn?" the Major inquired.

Mr. Crow swallowed once or twice before answering.

"I can eat it," he said finally. "It keeps one alive, you know. But if
you've never had any, I advise you not to touch it."

Major Monkey thanked him.

"Don't mention it!" said Mr. Crow. "I'm delighted to be of help to a
stranger. And if there is anything else I can do, don't hesitate to
call on me."

Major Monkey thanked him again. And then he said:

"I'd like to get acquainted with all the neighbors--such as they are.
And I would suggest that you give a party and invite me and a lot of
people to come to it, so I can meet them."

Old Mr. Crow bit his tongue. It struck him that Major Monkey was just
the least bit too forward.

"What about refreshments?" Mr. Crow asked him. "It's easy to see that
you don't know the neighbors. I can tell you that they have enormous
appetites--every one of them."

"Oh! that's easily arranged," said Major Monkey. "Tell everybody to be
sure to have his refreshments before he comes to the party."

"A good idea!" Mr. Crow exclaimed. With that difficulty removed he
was willing to give a party, for he quite liked the prospect of
introducing everybody to "his old friend, Major Monkey."

"You're sure you don't know anybody in this valley except me?" Mr.
Crow asked. He didn't want to divide with anyone else the honor of
being a friend of anybody so imposing as the Major.

"I haven't spoken to a soul but you," Major Monkey assured him.

Mr. Crow said he was glad of that. And then he asked the Major to keep
out of sight until the time came for the party to begin.

At first Major Monkey objected. And not until Mr. Crow promised to
have the party that very day--an hour before sunset--did he consent to
hide himself.

"Where's a good place?" he asked Mr. Crow.

"That tree is hollow," said Mr. Crow, pointing to the one in which he
had first seen the Major. "Just slip inside that hole there, about
half way up the trunk, and don't come out till I call you!"

Major Monkey scrambled back into the tall tree. And Mr. Crow watched
him narrowly until he was out of sight. Indeed, the old gentleman even
continued to stare at the hole after his friend had vanished inside
it.


IV

Wanted--A Lodging


Afterward old Mr. Crow had to admit that he must have been forgetful.
He had told Major Monkey to hide inside the hollow tree. And being a
total stranger in the neighborhood, of course the Major didn't know
that an owl lived there.

So he entered the dark hole boldly. And soon he came dashing out of it
much faster than he had gone in, shrieking at the top of his voice.

Old Mr. Crow was poised on a branch, as if he were waiting for
something. And he almost smiled as he looked at the Major and saw that
he was shaking. The poor fellow's teeth were chattering, too.

"What's the matter?" Mr. Crow called to him.

"There's--there's a Tiger inside this tree!" Major Monkey stammered. "I
know it's a Tiger, for I saw his eyes."

"Nonsense!" Mr. Crow exclaimed. And he burst into a loud _haw-haw_.
"It's nothing but an old Owl. I forgot all about him. A fine soldier
you are--afraid of an old Owl!"

Major Monkey straightened his cap and looked as soldierly as he could.

"You're mistaken, in a way," he told Mr. Crow. "I admit I was afraid.
I was _afraid I had frightened him_, waking him up so suddenly. So I
retreated."

Old Mr. Crow stopped laughing and looked very thoughtful. It occurred
to him that Major Monkey was a somewhat slippery person. Certainly he
could slip out of a hole about as easily as anybody Mr. Crow knew.

"You'll have to find some other place for me to hide," the Major
announced. "I don't want to stay in this tree all day, for I shouldn't
like to disturb a gentleman's rest."

Mr. Crow pondered for a few moments.

"You see that old haystack?" he said at last, pointing across the
fields. "Go and burrow under that. And be back here exactly an hour
before sunset."

Major Monkey saluted.

"That suits me," he said. And then he turned and scurried down to the
ground, leaped quickly upon the fence, and galloped off along the
topmost rails.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. Crow spent a very busy day inviting everybody to his party, to
meet his old friend, Major Monkey.

"He's a famous soldier," Mr. Crow explained, when people asked him
questions. "And I hope you'll all wear your best clothes, because the
Major himself is very handsomely dressed. There's gold braid on his
coat, and on his cap, too."

The old gentleman talked so much about the Major's uniform that a good
many of the neighbors thought that Mr. Crow ought to postpone his
party for a few days, until they could get Mr. Frog, the tailor, to
make them some new clothes.

But Mr. Crow wouldn't listen to them.

"No!" he said. "We mustn't wait. My friend the Major is a great
traveller. There's no knowing when he will take it into his head to
move on. And if you want to meet him there's no time like the
present."

Well, people were so busy getting ready for the party that there was a
great flurry everywhere all day long--except at the haystack, where
Major Monkey was hiding. And even he did not have so dull a time as
you might suppose.

Luckily, he had discovered a lone apple tree near-by. And being fond
of fruit he crept out of the haystack every few minutes and gathered
apples.

What he could eat, he ate greedily. And what he couldn't he hid under
the stack.

And on the whole, he had rather a pleasant time.


V

Meeting Major Monkey


Everybody was prompt when the hour came for Mr. Crow's party. In fact,
everybody was ahead of time. Old Mr. Crow had talked so much about his
old friend Major Monkey and the Major's gold-braided uniform that
people simply couldn't wait to see the stranger and his fine clothes.

There was just one difficulty: the Major himself was not on hand.

Old Mr. Crow began to be terribly worried. But he tried not to let
anybody know that he was disturbed.

"He'll be here soon," he said when people asked him where Major Monkey
was. "Now, if it had been _my_ case--" said Jenny, wearily.

"Or mine," said Lovibond, sadly.

Each drew a long breath.

"Do you know, if I disappeared tonight, there's not a soul--" said
Jenny, sorrowfully.

"That's just my case, too," interrupted Lovibond.

"Ah!" they said together.

They looked into each other's eyes with a mournful expression, and
sighed again.

Also their hands touched as their arms hung by their sides.

"Ninety pounds!

Did you say ninety? Two berths?" said Jenny. "What a shocking waste!
Couldn't somebody else use them?"

"Just what I was thinking," said Lovibond; and he linked the lady's arm
through his own.

"Hadn't you better get the tickets from Capt'n Davy, and--and give
them to somebody before it is too late?"

said Jenny.

"I've got them already--his boy Quarrie was keeping them," said
Lovibond.

"How thoughtful of you, Jona--I mean, Mr.

Lovi--"
"Je--Jen--"

"Ben-my-chree! Sweet Ben-my-chree, I love but thee--"
"O, Jonathan!"

whispered Jenny.

"O, Jenny!" gasped Jonathan.

They were on the dark side of the round house; the band was playing
behind them, the sea was rumbling in front; there was a shuffle of
feet, a sudden rustle of a dress; the lady glanced to the right,
the gentleman looked to the left, and then for a fraction of an
instant they were locked in each other's arms.

"Will you go back with me, Jenny?"

"Well," whispered Jenny. "Just to keep the tickets from wasting--"
"Just that," whispered Lovibond.

Three quarters of an hour later they were sailing out of Douglas
harbor on board the Irish packet that was to overtake the Pacific
steamship next morning at Belfast.

The lights of Castle Mona lay low on the water's edge, and from the
iron pier as they passed came the faint sound of the music of the
band:

"Mona, sweet Mona, Fairest isle beneath the sky, Mona, sweet Mona, We
bid thee now good-by."

CHAPTER X.

The life that Davy had led that day-was infernal At the first shaft of
Lovi-bond's insinuation against Mrs.

Quiggin's fidelity he had turned sick at heart. "When he said it," Davy
had thought, "the blood went from me like the tide out of the
Ragged Mouth, where the ships lie wrecked and rotten."

He had baffled with his bemuddled brain, to recall the conversation
he had held with his wife since his return home to marry her, and
every innocent word she had uttered in jest had seemed guilty and
foul.

"You've been nothing but a fool, Davy," he told himself. "You've been
tooken in."

Then he had reproached himself for his hasty judgment. "Hould hard,
boy, hould hard; aisy for all, though, aisy, aisy!"

He had remembered how modest his wife had been in the old days--how
simple and how natural.

"She was as pure as the mountain turf," he had thought, "and quiet
extraordinary."

Yet there was the ugly fact that she had appointed to meet a strange
man in the gardens of Castle Mona, that night, alone.

"Some charm is put on her--some charm or the like," he had thought
again.

That had been the utmost and best he could make of it, and he had
suffered the torments of the damned.

During the earlier part of the day he had rambled through the town,
drinking freely, and his face had been a piteous sight to see.

Toward nightfall he had drifted past Castle Mona toward Onchan Head,
and stretched himself on the beach before Derby Castle.

There he had reviewed the case afresh, and asked himself what he
ought to do.

"It's not for me to go sneaking after her," he had thought. "She's true,
I'll swear to it. The man's lying... Very well, then, Davy, boy,
don't you take rest till you're proving it."
The autumn day had begun to close in, and the first stars to come
out.

"Other women are like yonder," he had thought; "just common stars
in the sky, where there's millions and millions of them. But Nelly
is like the moon--the moon, bless her--"
At that thought Davy had leaped to his feet, in disgust of his own
simplicity.

"I'm a fool," he had muttered, "a reg'lar ould bleating billygoat;
talking pieces of poethry to myself, like a stupid, gawky Tommy Big
Eyes."

He had looked at his watch. It was a quarter to eight o'clock.
Unconsciously he had begun to walk toward Castle Mona.

"I'm not for misdoubting my wife, not me; but then a man may be over
certain. I'll find out for myself; and if it's true, if she's there,
if she meets him.... Well, well, be aisy for all, Davy; be aisy, boy,
be aisy! If the worst comes to the worst, and you've got to cut your
stick, you'll be doing it without a heart-ache anyway.

She'll not be worth it, and you'll be selling yourself to the Divil
with a clane conscience.

So it's all serene either way, Davy, my man, and here goes for it."
Meanwhile Mrs. Quiggin had been going through similar torments. "I
don't blame _him_," she had thought.

"It's that mischief-making huzzy. Why did I ask her? I wonder what in
the world I ever saw in her.

If I were not going away myself she should pack out of the house
in the morning.

The sly thing! How clever she thinks herself, too! But she'll be
surprised when I come down on her.

I'll watch her; she sha'n't escape me.

And as for _him_--well, we'll see, Mr. David, we'll see!"
As the clock in the hall in Castle Mona was striking eight these
good souls in these wise humors were making their several ways to
the waterfall under the cliff, in the darkest part of the hotel
grounds.

Davy got there first, going in by the gate at the Onchan end. It struck
him with astonishment that Lovibond was not there already. "The man
bragged of coming, but I don't see him," he thought.

He felt half inclined to be wroth with Lovibond for daring to run the
risk of being late. "I know someone who would have been early
enough if he had been coming to meet with somebody," he thought.

Presently he saw a female form approaching from the thick darkness at
the Douglas end of the house.

It was a tall figure in a long cloak, with the hood drawn over the
head. Through the opening of the cloak in front a light dress beneath
gleamed and glinted in the brightening starlight.
"It's herself," Davy muttered, under his breath. "She's like the silvery
fir tree with her little dark head agen the sky.

Trust me for knowing her! I'd be doing that if I was blind. Yes,
would I though, if I was only the grass under her feet, and she
walked on me. She's coming! My God, then, it's true!

It's true, Davy! Hould hard, boy! She's a woman for all! She's here! She
sees me!

She thinks I'm the man?"

In the strange mood of the moment he was half sorry to take her by
surprise.

Davy was right that Mrs. Quiggin saw him. While still in the shadow of
the house she recognized his dark figure among the trees.

"But he's alone," she thought. "Then the huzzy must have gone back to
her room when I thought she slipped out at the porch. He's waiting for
her.

Should I wait, too? No! That he is there is enough. He sees me. He is
coming. He thinks I am she. Umph! Now to astonish him!"
Thus thinking, and both trembling with rage and indignation, and
both quivering with love and fear, the two came face to face.

But neither betrayed the least surprise.

"I'm sorry, ma'am, if I'm not the man------" faltered Davy.

"It's a pity, sir, if I'm not the woman------" stammered Nelly.

"Hope I don't interrupt any terterta-tie," continued Davy.

"I trust you won't allow _me_----" began Nelly.

And then, having launched these shafts of impotent irony in vain,
they came to a stand with an uneasy feeling that something unlooked
for was amiss.

"What d'ye mane, ma'am?" said Davy.

"What do _you_ mean, sir?" said Nelly.

"I mane, that you're here to meet with a man," said Davy.

"I!" cried Nelly. "I? Did you say that I was here to meet----"
"Don't go to deny it, ma'am," said Davy.

"I do deny it," said Nelly.

"And what's more, sir, I know why you are here. You are here to
meet with a woman."

"Me! To meet with a woman! Me?" cried Davy.

"Oh, _you_ needn't deny it, sir," said Nelly.

"Your presence here is proof enough against you."

"And _your_ presence here is proof enough agen you," said Davy.

"You had to meet her at eight," said Nelly.

"That's a reg'lar bluff, ma'am," said Davy, "for it was at eight you had
to meet with _him_?

"How dare you say so?" cried Nelly.

"I had it from the man himself," said Davy.

"It's false, sir, for there _is_ no man; but I had it from the woman,"
said Nelly.

"And did you believe her?" said Davy.

"Did _you_ believe _him?_" said Nelly. "Were you simple enough to
trust a man who told you that he was going to meet your own wife?"

"He wasn't for knowing it was my own wife," said Davy. "But were _you_
simple enough to trust the woman who was telling you she was going
to meet your own husband?"

"She didn't know it was my own husband," said Nelly. "But that wasn't
the only thing she told me."

"And it wasn't the only thing _he_ tould _me_." said Davy.

"He tould me all your secrets--that your husband had deserted you
because he was a brute and a blackguard."

"I have never said so," cried Nelly. "Who dares to say I have?

I have never opened my lips to any living man against you. But you are
measuring me by your own yard, sir; for you led _her_ to believe
that I was a cat and a shrew and a nagger, and a thankless wretch
who ought to be put down by the law just as it puts down biting
dogs."

"Now, begging you pardon, ma'am," said Davy; "but that's a damned
lie, whoever made it."

After this burst there was a pause and a hush, and then Nelly said, "It's
easy to say that when she isn't here to contradict you; but wait,
sir, only wait."

"And it's aisy for you to say yonder," said Davy, "when he isn't come
to deny it--but take your time, ma'am, take your time."

"Who is it?" said Nelly.

"No matter," said Davy.

"Who is the man," demanded Nelly.

"My friend Lovibond," answered Davy.

"Lovibond!" cried Nelly.

"The same," groaned Davy.

"Mr.

Lovibond!" cried Nelly again.

"Aw--keep it up, ma'am; keep it up!" said Davy. "And, manewhile, if
you plaze, who is the woman?"
"My friend Jenny Crow," said Nelly.

Then there was another pause.

"And did she tell you that I had agreed to meet her?"

said Davy.

"She did," said Nelly. "And did _he_ tell _you_ that I had appointed
to meet _him?_"
"Yes, did he," said Davy.

"At eight o'clock, did she say?"
"Yes, eight o'clock," said Nelly. "Did _he_ say eight?"
"He did," said Davy.

The loud voices of a moment before had suddenly dropped to broken
whispers. Davy made a prolonged whistle.

"Stop," said he; "haven't you been in the habit of meeting him?"

"I have never seen him but once," said Nelly. "But haven't _you_ been
in the habit of meeting _her?_"
"Never set eyes on the little skute but twice altogether," said Davy.

"But didn't he see you first in St. Thomas's, and didn't you speak
with him on the shore--" 
"I've never been in St.

Thomas's in my life!" said Nelly. "But didn't you meet her first
on the Head above Port Soderick, and to go to Laxey, and come home
with her in the coach?"

"Not I," said Davy.

"Then the stories she told me of the Manx sailor were all imagination,
were they?"

said Nelly.

"And the yarns _he_ tould _me_ of the girl in the church were all
make-ups, eh?"

said Davy.

"Dear me, what a pair of deceitful people!" said Nelly.

"My gough! what a couple of cuffers!" said Davy.

There was another pause, and then Davy began to laugh.

First came a low gurgle like that of suppressed bubbles in a fountain,
then a sharp, crackling breaker of sound, and then a long, deep
roar of liberated mirth that seemed to shake and heave the whole
man, and to convulse the very air around him.

Davy's laughter was contagious. As the truth began to dawn on her
Mrs.

Quiggin first chuckled, then tittered, then laughed outright; and
at last her voice rose behind her husband's in clear trills of
uncontrollable merriment.

Laughter was the good genie that drew their assundered hearts
together.

It broke down the barrier that divided them; it melted the frozen
places where love might not pass.

They could not resist it.

Their anger fled before it like evil creatures of the night.

At the first sound of Davy's laughter something in Nelly's bosom
seemed to whisper "He loves me still;" and at the first note of
Nelly's, something clamored in Davy's breast, "She's mine, she's
mine!"

They turned toward each other in the darkness with a yearning cry.

"Nelly!" cried Davy, and he opened his arms to her.

"Davy!" cried Nelly, and she leaped to his embrace.

And so ended in laughter and kisses their little foolish comedy of
love.

As soon as Davy had recovered his breath he said, with what gravity
he could command, "Seems to me, Nelly Vauch, begging your pardon,
darling, that we've been a couple of fools."

"Whoever could have believed it?" said Nelly.

"What does it mane at all, said Davy.

"It means," said Nelly, "that our good friends knew each other, and
that he told her, and she told him, and that to bring us together
again they played a trick on our jealousy."

"Then we _were_ jealous?" said Davy.

"Why else are we here?" said Nelly.

"So you _did_ come to see a man, after all?"

said Davy.

"And _you_ came to see a woman," said Nelly.

They had began to laugh again, and to walk to and fro about the lawn,
arm-inarm and waist-to-waist, vowing that they would never part--no,
never, never, never--and that nothing on earth should separate
them, when they heard a step on the grass behind.

"Who's there?" said Davy.

And a voice from the darkness answered, "It's Willie Quarrie,
Capt'n."

Davy caught his breath. "Lord-a-massy me!" said he. "I'd clane
forgotten."

"So had I," said Nelly, with alarm.

"I was to have started back for Cajlao by the Belfast packet."

"And I was to have gone home by carriage."

"If you plaze, Capt'n," said Willie Quarrie, coming up. "I've been looking
for you high and low--the pacquet's gone."

Davy drew a long breath of relief. "Good luck to her," said he,
with a shout.

"And, if you plaze," said Willie, "Mr. Lovibond is gone with her."

"Good luck to _him_," said Davy.

"And Miss Crows has gone, too," said Willie.

"Good luck to her as well," said Davy; and Nelly whispered at his
side, "There--what did I tell you?"

"And if you plaze, Capt'n," said Willie Quarrie, stammering nervously,
"Mr. Lovibond, sir, he has borrowed our--our tickets and--and taken
them away with him."

"He's welcome, boy, he's welcome," cried Davy, promptly.

"We're going home instead. Home!" he said again--this time to Nelly, and
in a tone of delight, as if the word rolled on his tongue like a
lozenge--"that sounds better, doesn't it?

Middling tidy, isn't it. Not so dusty, eh?"
"We'll never leave it again," said Nelly.

"Never!" said Davy. "Not for a Dempster's palace. Just a piece of a
croft and a bit of a thatch cottage on the lea of ould Orrisdale, and
we'll lie ashore and take the sun like the goats."
"That reminds me of something," whispered Nelly. "Listen!

I've had a letter from father. It made me cry this morning, but it's all
right now--Ballamooar is to let!"

"Ballamooar!" repeated Davy, but in another voice. "Aw, no, woman,
no!

And that reminds _me_ of something."

"What is it," said Nelly.

"I should have been telling you first," said Davy, with downcast
head, and in a tone of humiliation.

"Then what?" whispered Nelly.

"There's never no money at a dirty ould swiper that drinks and
gambles everything.

I'm on the ebby tide, Nelly, and my boat is on the rocks like a
taypot.

I'm broke, woman, I'm broke."
Nelly laughed lightly.

"Do you say so?" she said with mock solemnity.

"It's only an ould shirt I'm bringing you to patch, Nelly," said
Davy; "but here I am, what's left of me, to take me or lave me,
and not much choice either ways."

"Then I take you, sir," said Nelly.

"And as for the money," she whispered in a meaning voice, "I'll
take Ballamooar myself and give you trust."

With a cry of joy Davy caught her to his breast and held her there as
in a vice. "Then kiss me on it again and swear to it," he cried,
"Again!

Again! Don't be in a hurry woman! Aw, kissing is mortal hasty
work! Take your time, girl! Once more! Shocking, is it? It's like the
bags of the bees that we were stealing when we were boys! Another!

Then half a one, and I'm done!"
Since they had spoken to Willie Quarrie they had given no further
thought to him, when he stepped forward and said out of the
darkness:
"If you plaze, capt'n, Mr.

Lovibond was telling me to give you this lether and this other
thing," giving a letter and a book to Davy.

"Hould hard, though; what's doing now?" said Davy, turning them
over in his hand.

"Let us go into the house and look," said Nelly.

But Davy had brought out his matchbox, and was striking a light. "Hould
up my billycock, boy," said he; and in another moment Willie Quarrie
was holding Davy's hat on end to shield from the breeze the burning
match which Nelly held inside of it.

Then Davy, bareheaded, proceeded to examine what Lovibond had sent
him.

"A book tied up in a red tape, eh?"

said Davy. "Must be the one he was writing in constant, morning and
evening, telling hisself and God A'mighty what he was doing and
wasn't doing, and where he was going to and when he was going to go.

Aw, yes, he always kep' a diarrhea."

"A diary, Davy," said Nelly.

"Have it as you like, _Vauch_, and don't burn your little fingers," said
Davy; and then he opened the letter, and with many interjections
proceeded to read it.

"'Dear Captain. How can I ask you to forgive me for the trick I have
played upon you? '(Forgive, is it?)'

I have never had an appointment with the Manx lady; I have never
had an intention of carrying her off from her husband; I have never
seen her in church, and the story I have told you has been a lie
from beginning to end.'"

Davy lifted his head and laughed.

"Another match, Willie," he cried.

And while the boy was striking a fresh one Davy stamped out the burning
end that Nelly dropped on to the grass, and said: "A lie!

Well, it was an' it wasn't. A sort of a scriptural parable, eh?"
"Go on, Davy," said Nelly, impatiently, and Davy began again:

"'You know the object of that trick by this time' (Wouldn't trust), 'but
you have been the victim of another' (Holy sailor!)

, 'to which I must also confess.

In the gambling by which I won a large part of your money' (True for
you!) 'I was not playing for my own hand.

It was for one who wished to save you from yourself.' (Lord a massy!)
'That person was your wife' (Goodness me!)

, 'and all my earnings belong to her.' (Good thing, too!) 'They are
deposited at Dumbell's in her name' (Right!), 'and---'"
"There--that will do," said Nelly, nervously.

"'And I send you the bank-book, together with the dock bonds,...
which you transferred for Mrs.

Quiggin's benefit... to the name... of her friend...'"
Davy's lusty voice died off to a whisper.

"What is that?" said Nelly, eagerly.

"Nothin'," said Davy, very thick about the throat; and he rammed
the letter into his breeches' pocket and grabbed at his hat.

As he did so, a paper slipped to the ground.

Nelly caught it up and held it on the breezy side of the flickering
match.

It was a note from Jenny Crow: "'You dear old goosy; your jealous little
heart found out who the Manx sailor was, but your wise little
poll never once suspected that Mr. Lovibond could be anything to
anybody, although I must have told you twenty times in the old
days of the sweetheart from whom I parted.

Good thing, too. Glad you were so stupid, my dear, for by helping
you to make up your quarrel we have contrived to patch up our own.

Good-by! What lovely stories I told you! And how you liked them!

We have borrowed your husband's berths for the Pacific steamer, and are
going to have an Irish marriage tomorrow morning at Belfast--'"

"So they're a Co. consarn already," said Davy.

"'Good-by! Give your Manx sailor one kiss for me--'"

"Do it!" cried Davy. "Do it!

What you've got to do only once you ought to do it well."
Then they became conscious that a smaller and dumpier figure was
standing in the darkness by the side of Willie. It was Peggy
Quine.

"Are you longing, Peggy?"

Willie was saying in a voice of melancholy sympathy.

And Peggy was answering in a doleful tone, "Aw, yes, though--longing
mortal."
Becoming conscious that the eyes of her mistress were on her, Peggy
stepped out and said, "If you plaze, ma'am, the carriage is waiting
this half-hour."

"Then send it away again," said Davy.

"But the boxes is packed, sir----"

"Send it away," repeated Davy.
"No, no," said Nelly; "we must go home to-night."
"To-morrow morning," shouted Davy, with a stamp of his foot and a
laugh.
"But I have paid the bill," said Nelly, "and everything is arranged,
and we are all ready."
"To-morrow morning," thundered Davy, with another stamp of the foot
and a peal of laughter.

And Davy had his way.

THE END.But Major Monkey told them that they were in the army, and that it was
_war_, and they must expect even worse things to happen.

Now, Jimmy Rabbit was a tender-hearted chap. He couldn't bear the
thought of leaving even a rascal like Peter Mink wounded and alone.

"I think you ought to send the cook back to take care of him," Jimmy
told Major Monkey.

At that, Mr. Crow--who was the cook--spoke up and said that he was going
to stay with the army.

"I don't see," he said, "how you could get along without me. An army
without a cook is as good as lost."

Major Monkey promptly agreed with Mr. Crow.

"Certainly we mustn't get lost," he said. "If we were lost, the enemy
never could find us. And we might wander about in the woods for years
and years."

His remarks made some of the generals a bit uneasy. And one of them--a
soldier called Billy Woodchuck--announced that he would have to be
leaving.


XII

Over and Under


When Billy Woodchuck talked about leaving the army, Major Monkey
became greatly excited. He muttered something under his breath about
_deserters_, and _shooting them at sunrise_. And he strutted up to
Billy Woodchuck and asked him what he meant by quitting the army
without permission.

Though Billy Woodchuck hung his head, he insisted that he must go
home.

"I have an engagement," he explained, "to stand guard in the
clover-patch, while my father and some other old gentlemen feast on
clover-tops."

"Are they expecting an attack?" Major Monkey inquired, pricking up his
ears.

"Of course not!" said Billy Woodchuck. "They're not _expecting_ one,
or they would stay safe at home. But you never can tell what old dog
Spot is going to do. My father and his friends would be disappointed
if I didn't come. They would be angry, too. And just as likely as not
I'd be put to bed an hour before sunset. So I shall go home now,
whether you give me leave or not."

"Then I'll give you leave--if that's the case," said Major Monkey. "I
can't have anybody disobeying orders; so I'll give you leave. And I'll
dismiss the army until to-morrow.... The last man over the fence will
be shot at sunrise," he added. It seemed as if he was determined to
shoot somebody, anyhow.

Well, everyone turned and ran like the wind. Naturally, nobody wanted
to be last, after what Major Monkey had said.

It looked, for a few moments, as if the whole army was going to cross
the fence at the same instant. But Billy Woodchuck was so unlucky as
to step into a hole. He fell head over heels. And by the time he had
picked himself up and reached the fence all the rest were safe on the
other side of it.

Things looked very dark for Billy Woodchuck--especially when Major
Monkey grinned horribly at him between the rails and said:

"Too bad, my boy! But this is war, you know.... Please don't forget
the time! To-morrow, at sunrise!"

Billy Woodchuck's heart sank. He wished he had never joined the army.
And then an idea came to him. It was such a simple one that it is a
wonder he hadn't thought of it instantly. Instead of going _over_ the
fence, to everybody's surprise he squirmed _under_ it. And everybody
was vastly relieved. Even Major Monkey appeared to be delighted.

"I'm afraid"--he said with a smile--"I'm afraid we'll have to shoot the
rest of the army at sunrise, for they went over the fence last."

But Mr. Crow spoke up and said: "Nonsense! The rest of us went over
_first_!"

Major Monkey had to admit that that was true. And he showed plainly
that he was disappointed. Although he did not look the least bit
cruel, it was clear that he had looked forward to shooting--and the
more the merrier.

"It's really a great pity," he said, "that we can't have a shot at
somebody."


XIII

The Major Hesitates


Major Monkey's army soon became known far and wide. Its fame reached
beyond Pleasant Valley, to the other side of Blue Mountain. And a good
many persons who had been in the habit of making excursions into the
valley now and then began to think that it was a good place to avoid.

Old Mr. Crow had a good deal to do with spreading the news. He took
several long trips, just to tell people that the army was ready--and
eager--to fight all strangers.

In fact, the Major said he wished Mr. Crow would mind his own affairs.
For how was the army ever going to fight, if all the enemies kept out
of its way?

All the generals began to tell one another that Major Monkey was a
very brave soldier. And certainly he _said_ nothing to change their
opinion of him. He was always telling how much he liked to fight, and
complaining that he was only wasting his valuable time in Pleasant
Valley.

In a way the Major was right. And probably there never would have been
the least trouble if Johnnie Green and his friends hadn't happened to
have a picnic in the woods on the same day and in the same spot that
the Major had chosen to call his generals together.

[Illustration: "You're a Sneak-Thief!" Jasper Jay said.]

Of course, the Major couldn't drill his soldiers with Johnnie Green
and a half-dozen other boys on hand to watch. So the generals lurked
behind trees and wished that the picnickers would go away.

Meanwhile Major Monkey himself sulked in the tree-tops, hidden high up
among the leafy branches, where nobody would be likely to spy him. He
watched the boys while they ate their luncheon, which they devoured as
soon as they reached the picnic grove. And then he looked on while they
played games--hide-and-seek, and duck-on-the-rock, and follow-my-leader,
and ever so many others.

Now and then old Mr. Crow flew up and tried to talk with Major Monkey.
But the Major had very little to say. And at last Mr. Crow lost all
patience with him.

"Are you going to sit here all day and do nothing?" Mr. Crow demanded.

"S-sh!" Major Monkey said. "Do be quiet! Do you want them to hear
you?"

"I don't care if they hear me," Mr. Crow cried. "It's plain to me that
these boys will stay here all day if they're not driven away."

"No doubt!" Major Monkey agreed, as he plucked a tender shoot off the
tree and ate it. "But what can we do?"

"Do!" said Mr. Crow. "What's the army for--I'd like to know--if not to
fight?"

Major Monkey's wrinkled face seemed somewhat pale.

"Quite true!" he agreed again. "But I'm not sure we're strong enough
to do anything against these ruffians down below. I'm not sure that I
can depend on the army in a pinch."

To the Major's great alarm, Mr. Crow squalled with rage.

"You've insulted me!" he shrieked. And he made such a commotion that
Major Monkey scampered off, beckoning to Mr. Crow to follow him.

Just as they left, a stone came crashing through the leaves, thrown by
some boy who had noticed Mr. Crow's hoarse cries.

And that made Major Monkey run all the faster.


XIV

Throwing Stones


Major Monkey never stopped running until he had gone so far that the
voices of the picnickers reached him only faintly.

Old Mr. Crow, who had followed him closely, began to think that the
Major was frightened. But he knew he must be mistaken when Major
Monkey came to a halt and said: "Now we can talk without disturbing
anybody."

So Mr. Crow repeated that in his opinion the Major had insulted him.

"You've just the same as said that I'm a poor soldier!" he declared.

Major Monkey told him that it was not so.

"It's the _generals_ that I can't trust," he explained. "But you are
different. You're the cook, you remember. In the midst of a fight, you
wouldn't be expected to cook."

"Then my part would be to do nothing at all?" Mr. Crow inquired.

"Exactly!" Major Monkey cried. "And I've no doubt that you'd be a
great success."

Old Mr. Crow always liked praise. And of course the Major's remark
pleased him. It made him all the more eager, too, to see the army
attack Johnnie Green and his friends.

"Let's go back," said Mr. Crow, "and drive those boys out of the
picnic grove!"

But Major Monkey shook his head.

"I don't want to lose my army," he said. "And besides we haven't any
guns."

"You can throw stones, can't you?" Mr. Crow asked him.

"Oh, yes!" said the Major.

"Well, then--if I were you I'd get some stones down by the brook and go
straight back to the grove and hurl them at the enemy."

He said so much more that at last Major Monkey yielded. And a little
later he crept back through the tree-tops with all the stones he could
carry.

Hidden high above the heads of the picnic party, Major Monkey gave
several short whistles. "The attack!" he whispered to old Mr. Crow,
who had returned with him to see the fun.

"Hullo!" Johnnie Green shouted, stopping short in the midst of a game
of leapfrog. "Who's up there?" And he peered into the greenery above.

Nobody seemed to know the answer to his question. Certainly there was
nobody missing from the picnic party.

"I wonder if it's Red Head!" said Johnnie. "You remember he said he
couldn't come because he had work to-day. But he must have sneaked
over here ahead of us and climbed a tree."

The words were scarcely out of Johnnie Green's mouth when a small
stone plunged down from the trees and struck one of his great toes.
Being barefooted, Johnnie Green let out a yell.

"Ouch!" he cried. "It's Red Head! There's no doubt about it."

If anybody else had any doubts, they faded quickly when a small shower
of stones descended.

"Stop that!" the boys began to shout. "Come down!" And they threatened
Red Head with terrible punishments.

Of course, Major Monkey was delighted. He knew that his army of
generals could see--and hear--everything. And after he had thrown his
last stone he felt so bold that he slipped down upon a lower limb,
which gave him a better view of the picnic ground.

One of the boys caught a glimpse of a queer figure above him. And with
a shriek he turned and fled.

His companions looked at him in wonder. And Johnnie Green couldn't
imagine what had happened, when his staring eyes beheld the Major
hanging from a bough over his head.

"It's a monkey!" Johnnie Green gasped. "Where in the world could he
have come from?"


XV

The Retreat


Major Monkey quite enjoyed the amazement of the picnickers. And he did
two very odd things, for the commander of an army: first he took off
his red cap and made a low bow to Johnnie Green and his mates; and
next he swung off the limb of the tree and hung by his tail and one
hand.

The boys whooped with delight.

"Let's catch him!" Johnnie Green cried. And then he shouted to the boy
who had run away, and who stood a good, safe distance off, looking
back and wondering what was going on. "Hi, Bill! It's a monkey!"
Johnnie bellowed.

Bill came running back at top speed.

"We're going to catch him," said Johnnie Green.

"How're we going to do that?" asked the boy who had been frightened
and run away and come back.

Nobody answered him, for at that moment one of the youngsters flung a
butternut at the Major, who caught the missile deftly and shot it back
again.

A howl of delight from the ground below greeted the Major's ears.

"Let's stone him!" somebody cried.

But Johnnie Green said, "No! We don't want to hurt him. We'll climb
the tree and get him."

His friends agreed that that was the better way, after all. And one
after another they began to shin up the tree where Major Monkey was
still cutting his queer capers. The boys had no sooner started to
climb after him than the Major gave a shrill whistle. He was calling
for help. But there was not a general in sight anywhere.

He could see not a single one of his whole army, except the cook, old
Mr. Crow. And even he flapped away to a neighboring tree-top. As Mr.
Crow remarked afterward, since he had to do nothing, he thought he
could do it much better if he wasn't too near.

Major Monkey began to chatter. And Mr. Crow always declared that the
Major trembled.

There is no doubt that he was alarmed. He scrambled to the very top of
the tree, while the boys went up, up, up--until at last Major Monkey
gave a scream and jumped into another--and smaller--tree, the top of
which was far below him.

He plunged, sprawling, through the leafy boughs until he managed to
seize a branch and steady himself. Then he was off like a squirrel.
And long before the boys had reached the ground again Major Monkey was
far away in the woods.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. Crow took good care not to lose sight of Major Monkey. And when
the Major at last stopped, panting, and slipped down to the ground to
have a drink out of the brook, old Mr. Crow promptly joined him.

"Aha!" said Mr. Crow. "_You_ were scared. _You_ ran away!"

The Major wiped his mouth on the back of his hand and looked at Mr.
Crow uneasily.

"I _came_ away--yes!" he said.

Mr. Crow snorted.

"A fine soldier you are!" he cried scornfully. "You aren't brave
enough to lead an army. I should think you'd be ashamed."

Major Monkey seemed pained. He said it hurt him to have Mr. Crow say
such cruel things.

"It's plain," said he, "that you don't know much about an army, in
spite of all I've tried to teach you. Of course I had to leave. I'm
the leader of the army; and I must keep out of danger. So when the
generals failed to come to my rescue when I whistled for help there
was nothing I could do except retreat."

For a long time Mr. Crow was silent.

"You were scared, anyway," he remarked at last.

"I wasn't!" the Major protested.

"You were!" said Mr. Crow. "You were! You were! You were!"

Of course he was very ill-mannered. But Major Monkey was too polite to
tell him so. Instead, he picked up a smooth stone out of the brook and
threw it at Mr. Crow's head.

The old gentleman hopped aside just in time. And without waiting to
dispute any further, he tore off as fast as he could go.

"Now who's scared?" Major Monkey called after him.

But old Mr. Crow did not stop to answer.


XVI

The Major's Trouble


After Major Monkey fled from Johnnie Green and his friends in the
picnic grove, his generals declared that they wanted no leader that
ran away from the enemy. And since they couldn't agree on anyone else
to take the Major's place, they disbanded.

So Major Monkey lost his army. But the loss did not seem to trouble
him greatly. He was almost too cheerful. And his neighbors even
claimed that his spirits rose higher each day.

There is no doubt that the Major felt very gay. He was fast losing the
lean and hungry look he had had when he first appeared in Pleasant
Valley. And he became freer than ever as to manners.

Nobody else could go about the woods with any comfort, because one
never knew when he would have to dodge a stone. For Major Monkey liked
nothing better than making a body jump--unless it was bowling someone
over when he failed to jump soon enough.

In time the forest-folk grew quite weary of that sport. And they began
to tell one another that something would have to be done to put an end
to Major Monkey's stone-throwing.

But nobody could suggest any way to cure Major Monkey of his
unpleasant habit. And at last Mr. Crow went to Aunt Polly Woodchuck
and asked her if she couldn't give the Major an herb of some sort to
eat, which would make him stop wanting to pelt every head he saw.

But Aunt Polly replied that it wasn't possible.

"The trouble with Major Monkey," she said, "is that he eats too much
as it is. And if I gave him still more food he would only throw more
stones at you."

Mr. Crow exclaimed that he didn't want that to happen.

"Then you'll have to make the Major eat less," said Aunt Polly
Woodchuck. "On what sort of fare is he living at present?" she
inquired.

Mr. Crow answered that he wasn't quite sure, but he thought Major
Monkey fed for the most part on cowbirds' eggs.

Aunt Polly Woodchuck shook her head.

"That's not possible," she cried. "There aren't enough Cowbirds' eggs
in Pleasant Valley to make anybody so fat as the Major is getting.
Unless I'm mistaken, he's taking the eggs of a good many others
besides Cowbirds."

Mr. Crow became greatly excited.

"Then he's a thief!" he squawked. "Major Monkey is an egg thief!" And
he flapped away across the pasture in a fine rage, to tell everybody
what Aunt Polly Woodchuck had said.

       *       *       *       *       *

A little later in the day Major Monkey began to notice that a good
many of his neighbors looked at him very coldly. The birds,
especially, glared at him as if they were actually angry. And wherever
he went they set up a loud twittering. Some of them even flew at his
head and tried to peck him as they darted past.

At first he couldn't imagine what was the matter. But before the day
was done Jasper Jay let him know what made the bird people angry.

"You're a sneak-thief!" Jasper told the Major bluntly. "We've found at
last what makes you so fat. You've been stealing eggs from every nest
in the woods!"

"Tut! Tut!" said Major Monkey. "When a lazy Cowbird lays an egg in
somebody else's nest, the owner ought to be grateful to me for taking
the egg out and eating it."

"It's not that," Jasper Jay replied. "The trouble is, you've taken all
kinds of eggs."

"Well, well!" said Major Monkey. "To be sure, I may have made a
mistake now and then. But what's an egg or two, more or less, when one
has a half-dozen of them?"


XVII

Major Monkey Confesses


Major Monkey seemed surprised when Jasper Jay told him that there
wasn't a bird family in the whole valley that felt it could spare a
single egg.

"Of course," said Jasper, "nobody cares how many Cowbirds' eggs you
eat. The Cowbirds are pests. They are too lazy to build nests of their
own. And no respectable bird family likes to have a loutish young
Cowbird to bring up with their own children. But you have gone too
far. You have been stealing eggs right and left. And the time has come
for us to put a stop to your thieving."

A number of Jasper Jay's bird neighbors had gathered around him and
Major Monkey while they talked. And they all spoke up and said in
good, loud tones that Major Monkey was a villain--and worse.

Anyone might think that for once the Major would have acted the least
bit ashamed. But he did not. He had not even the grace to say that he
was sorry for making a few "mistakes."

Instead, he stuck his red cap on one side of his head and began
dancing something that might have been a jig if it had been faster.

His actions made all the birds very angry. And some of them exclaimed
that there was no reason to make merry, so far as they could see.

Major Monkey promptly stopped dancing and looked grieved.

"Perhaps you would dance, too, if you had just had a good meal of
eggs," he remarked.

A shriek went up from his listeners. And old Mr. Crow exclaimed
loudly: "Put him out! Put Major Monkey out!"

But nobody made a move. And Major Monkey turned to Mr. Crow and said:

"What's wrong? Have I said something I shouldn't?"

"Said!" the old gentleman echoed. "You've not only _said_ a terrible
thing; you've _done_ a still worse one! For you've just been stealing
eggs again--and you can't deny it."

A great clamor arose all at once.

"Hear! Hear!" Mr. Crow's friends cried.

And Major Monkey had hard work to make himself heard.

"Whose eggs do you think I've been eating?" he asked Mr. Crow.

Not knowing the exact answer to the question, Mr. Crow pretended not
to hear it at all. But he looked so slyly at the Major that the Major
himself was not deceived. He winked at Mr. Crow and shied a pebble at
him.

"I'll tell you, old boy!" the Major cried. "I've been eating hens'
eggs."

"Hens' eggs!" everybody repeated after him. "Hens' eggs! Where do you
get 'em?"

"At Farmer Green's henhouse, of course," the Major answered. "I've
been going there regularly for some time. I find that the eggs are
bigger than any I can find in the woods."

"It's no wonder he's getting fat," Jasper Jay murmured as he gazed at
Major Monkey.

"You'll have to stop eating so much," Mr. Crow told the Major
solemnly. "Aunt Polly Woodchuck says that the reason you throw so many
stones is because you overeat and feel in too high spirits."

Major Monkey looked disgusted when he heard that speech.

"Aunt Polly Fiddlesticks!" he jeered. "She doesn't know what she's
talking about. Why, the more eggs I eat, the more time I must spend at
the henhouse. And while I'm there I can't throw stones here, can I?"

Everybody had to agree with the Major. At least, everybody but Mr.
Crow remarked that what he said seemed true.

"Now, friends," said Major Monkey at last, "if there have been any
eggs missing from your nests lately you can't blame me."

"Then whom can we blame?" somebody cried.

"I'd hate to say," was Major Monkey's answer. But since he looked
straight at Mr. Crow as he spoke, most of the company could not help
thinking that the old gentleman was the thief, after all. And when he
flew into a rage they felt quite sure he was guilty.

"We always knew Mr. Crow was an old rascal!" they exclaimed.

And so Mr. Crow took himself off. But he soon recovered his good
spirits. He was used to being called names. And to tell the truth, he
had taken a few eggs now and then--when he thought no one was watching.


XVIII

Planning a Journey


After they learned that Major Monkey was in the habit of going to
Farmer Green's henhouse for eggs, the wild folk began to have a better
opinion of him once more. So long as he didn't steal birds' eggs they
were willing to overlook his stone-throwing--if he didn't throw too
many.

Somehow they never seemed to think of Farmer Green's loss. Or if they
did, no doubt they thought that he had so many eggs that he wouldn't
mind losing a few now and then.

So it happened that Major Monkey found everybody most agreeable--except
old Mr. Crow, who never felt the same toward him again.

But Major Monkey did not let Mr. Crow's gruffness trouble him. He had
so many other cronies that he frequently remarked that he had never
spent a pleasanter summer.

"I've decided"--he told Jolly Robin one day, when he stopped in the
orchard to eat an apple--"I've decided to stay right here in Pleasant
Valley for the rest of my life."

"My gracious!" Jolly Robin exclaimed. "Then you don't mind cold
weather."

Major Monkey asked him what he meant. And it surprised him to learn
that all winter long deep snow lay upon the ground, and cold winds
blew, and fierce storms often raged.

Though it was a hot summer's day, Major Monkey shivered at the mere
mention of such things. And he pulled his red cap further down upon
his head.

"If that's the case," he said, "I certainly don't want to spend the
winters here.... I don't see how you manage to live through them."

Jolly Robin laughed merrily. "Bless you!" he cried. "I don't stay here
the year 'round. As soon as it begins to grow chilly I go South, where
it's warm."

Now, Major Monkey looked worried when he heard about the bitter
winters in Pleasant Valley. His queer face had screwed itself into
even more wrinkles than it usually wore. But as soon as Jolly Robin
spoke of going to a warmer place, the Major brightened at once.

"I'm going South too!" he cried. "And if you've no objection we'll
travel together."

Jolly Robin said that nothing would please him more.

"I shall be glad to go with you--if my wife doesn't object," he assured
the Major.

"Oh! She won't mind," said Major Monkey. "She can go with us. We'll
make up a party.... She'll be lucky to go anywhere with such a famous
traveller as I am."

Jolly Robin said somewhat doubtfully that he hoped Mrs. Robin would
accept their plan. And then he dashed Major Monkey's high hopes by
remarking, "Of course, we always fly when we go South."

The Major's face fell. He looked careworn and unhappy again.

"I don't know how to fly," he faltered. "But if you'll fly low, and
slowly enough, perhaps I can run through the tree-tops fast enough to
keep up with you. I hope it isn't a long trip," he added somewhat
anxiously.

"It's about a thousand miles," Jolly Robin told him.


XIX

The Major's Scheme


"I never can run a thousand miles through the tree-tops," Major Monkey
told Jolly Robin in a tone of great disappointment. "I don't see how I
can spend the winter in the South; and I certainly don't want to stay
here, if it's as cold as you say." The poor Major looked so glum that
Jolly Robin was sorry for him.

"Can't you get a ride?" he asked.

"I could ride a horse, if I had one," Major Monkey replied.

"That's not a bad idea," Jolly Robin said. "But I'm afraid you'd have
trouble finding a horse. Farmer Green would scarcely care to spare one
of his horses for so long a trip."

"Well, I could ride a dog," said Major Monkey. "There's that dog at
the farmhouse--old Spot, as you call him. Surely Farmer Green wouldn't
mind if I rode _him_ away, for he's nothing but a nuisance."

"Why don't you ask Farmer Green?" Jolly Robin suggested.

But Major Monkey shook his head.

"No!" he said. "No! I don't want to do that yet. Before I speak to
Farmer Green I prefer to make sure that old dog Spot is _easy to ride
on_."

Jolly Robin looked puzzled. His mouth fell open. And for a few moments
he stared at Major Monkey without saying a word.

[Illustration: The Man Began to Sing a Merry Song]

When he finally spoke, it was to ask Major Monkey how he was going to
find out what he wanted to know about old dog Spot.

"There's only one way," said Major Monkey. "There's only one way; and
that's _to ride him and see_."

Jolly Robin thought what a bold fellow Major Monkey was. He entirely
forgot the Major's flight from the picnic grove. Riding a dog was such
a feat as Jolly Robin himself would never, never attempt. And he was
sure that if Major Monkey really undertook it there could be no doubt
of his bravery.

"How do you know"--Jolly asked the Major timidly--"how do you know that
old dog Spot will let you ride him?"

"Don't you worry about that!" Major Monkey cried lightly, as he
swaggered along a limb of the apple tree where they were talking.
"Leave that to me."

And Jolly Robin thought what a stout heart beat beneath Major Monkey's
red coat, and how fine it was to be one of his friends.

"I should like to see you when you first ride old Spot," said Jolly
Robin.

"Delighted, I'm sure!" Major Monkey cried.

"And I hope you've no objection to my bringing my wife along, too."

Major Monkey was not so sure that he would care to have Mrs. Robin for
an onlooker.

"Women are likely to be timid," he remarked. "They sometimes scream at
the wrong time. And if your wife happened to cry out just as I was
about to drop on old Spot's back, he might jump. And that would spoil
everything."

Jolly Robin decided that Major Monkey knew best.

"We'll keep this affair a secret," he whispered.

The Major nodded.

"And now"--Jolly Robin asked him--"now where and when are you going to
ride old Spot?"

Shutting his eyes tightly, Major Monkey wrinkled his low forehead
until Jolly Robin began to fear that he was in great pain.

"Are you ill?" Jolly asked him.

"No!" said the Major. "I was only thinking. And it seems to me that
the other end of the orchard, toward the farmhouse, would be the best
place to begin my ride.... As for the time," he added, "that will be
when old Spot happens to come that way."

"I'll be there, whenever that may be," Jolly Robin assured him.


XX

A Fast Ride


For once Mrs. Robin had reason to complain that her husband did not do
his share of the work. Jolly Robin _would_ spend most of his time at
the further end of the orchard, talking with "that good-for-nothing
Major Monkey," to use Mrs. Robin's own words.

Whenever she flew over to speak to her husband, the Major was most
polite to her, never failing to take off his cap and ask after her
health. But Mrs. Robin had little to say to him. She had, however, a
great deal to say to Jolly Robin. But no matter how much she urged him
to stop idling and come home and help her look after their big family,
Jolly insisted that he and the Major "had business to attend to."

At last, when Mrs. Robin gave up in despair, Jolly began to feel
somewhat uncomfortable. And he tried to get Major Monkey to go and ask
old dog Spot to come to the orchard, instead of waiting there
uncertainly for days and days.

But Major Monkey would not consent to such a move. He was quite firm.

"I don't want to _ask_ old Spot to give me a ride," he explained.

"Then how do you ever expect to get one?" Jolly asked him anxiously.

"Oh, there's a way!" was the Major's mysterious reply. And that was
all he would say.

The longer Jolly Robin waited to see the fun, the more excited he
became, and the more Major Monkey seemed to enjoy himself.

"Old dog Spot ought to be here soon," the Major kept saying. "I can
see him now. No! I'm mistaken."

Jolly Robin had so many disappointments that one morning when the
Major cried out that at last old Spot was actually crawling through
the fence, and would be in the orchard in about a minute and a half,
Jolly couldn't believe him.

It was true, nevertheless. To Jolly's delight, old dog Spot came
darting in and out among the apple trees, with his nose close to the
ground. He was following a trail made by Tommy Fox, who had visited
the henhouse the night before. And he was so intent on what he was
doing that never once did he glance up into the apple trees, where
Major Monkey and Jolly Robin were watching him.

Major Monkey dropped quickly down to a low-hanging limb. And as luck
had it, Tommy Fox's trail led old dog Spot right under the tree where
the Major waited, hanging gracefully by his tail and one hand.

As old Spot passed below him, Major Monkey loosened his hold on the
limb and dropped squarely upon old Spot's back.

The moment he landed, the Major dug his fingers into Spot's long fur
and hung on grimly. And at the same instant old dog Spot leaped high
into the air and let out a frenzied yelp.

Jolly Robin was glad that his wife was not present, for he knew that
the sight, and the sound too, could not have failed to terrify her.

Old Spot seemed almost out of his mind. For a few moments the poor
fellow tore about the orchard in wide circles, hoping in vain that he
might shake that strange load off his back.

But he soon saw that his rider clung to him like a burr. And wheeling
suddenly, Spot shot like a streak out of the orchard and flew across
the meadow.

Just before he disappeared behind a high knoll Major Monkey turned his
face over his shoulder and looked behind. Then, holding on with one
hand, with the either he waved his red cap at Jolly Robin.

The next moment Jolly saw the Major and his strange steed no more.

"They headed straight for the river!" Jolly exclaimed. And he felt so
worried about his friend the Major that though he went home at once,
his wife complained that his mind wasn't on his work and that he was
more bother than help to her.

Some time later Major Monkey limped back to his home in the haystack,
dripping wet. His fine coat was torn. And he had lost his red cap.

When Jolly Robin saw him he asked the Major if he had had a good ride.

"Well," said Major Monkey, "it was a good one; but it was _too fast_.
If I started to travel south on old dog Spot's back I'd reach my
journey's end before you had gone half way."

"Dear me!" said Jolly Robin. "Then we can't travel together after
all."


XXI

A Sweet Tooth


After his ride on old dog Spot, Major Monkey went to the henhouse for
eggs even oftener than he had gone before.

Perhaps he had become fonder of eggs. Or perhaps he had become bolder.
Anyhow, he noticed that old dog Spot gave him a wide berth. Whenever
old Spot saw him he tucked his tail between his legs and ran, yelping,
into the house.

Now, Johnnie Green soon discovered that something--or somebody--was
frightening old Spot almost every day. And having nothing else to do
one morning, he made up his mind that he would watch and see what
happened. So he climbed to the cupola on top of the big barn. And
there he stayed for a long time, keeping a sharp eye on old Spot as he
wandered about the farm buildings.

It was a good while before anything happened. But Johnnie Green did
not mind that. He had brought plenty of cookies to munch. And he
pretended that he was a sailor in the crow's nest of a ship, on the
lookout for a sail.

After a while he almost forgot what he was really doing. He was
leaning far out of the cupola, shading his eyes with one hand, and
stuffing a cookie into his mouth with the other, and gazing off across
the meadow, when all at once he heard old Spot yelping.

That sound brought Johnnie to his senses. And glancing down, he saw
Spot tearing across the barnyard, making for the woodshed door in
great bounds. And behind him, perched on the roof of the henhouse,
Johnnie saw a familiar figure.

"It's the monkey again!" Johnnie Green cried. And he clambered quickly
to the ground.

But when he reached the henhouse Major Monkey had fled. Johnnie could
see his red coat flickering among the leaves in the orchard. But he
knew it was useless to follow.

Although Major Monkey was aware that Johnnie Green had seen him again,
he did not stop visiting the henhouse. To be sure, he became somewhat
more wary. He never went inside the henhouse for eggs without first
looking around carefully, to make sure that Johnnie Green wasn't
watching him. And for a time the Major kept an eye out for traps.

He saw nothing of the sort anywhere. But one day when he leaped to the
window-sill of the henhouse he was delighted to find a lump of maple
sugar, which some one had carelessly left there.

At least, that was what the Major supposed. And with something a good
deal like a chuckle he ate the dainty greedily. It was the first bit
of sugar he had tasted since he came to Pleasant Valley. And Major
Monkey was very fond of sweets.

Johnnie Green, or his father, or the hired man seemed all at once to
grow terribly careless with maple sugar. The Major hardly ever visited
the henhouse without finding a lump somewhere. And if his liking for
eggs hadn't brought him thither daily, his taste for sugar would have
been enough to make him continue his visits.

At last there came a day when Major Monkey discovered a thick pitcher
on the henhouse floor. A chain was looped through its handle and
nailed to the wall.

The Major grinned when he saw the chain.

"They don't want this pitcher to run away," he said to himself.

Being of a most curious turn of mind, he looked into the pitcher. And
then he promptly thrust in a hand.

There was a good-sized lump of sugar inside. And Major Monkey's
fingers closed upon it greedily.

His queer face wrinkled with annoyance when he found that he could not
withdraw his hand. Empty, it could easily have slipped through the
mouth of the pitcher. But with the sugar clutched in it, his hand
stuck fast.


XXII

Caught!


Though Major Monkey tugged and tugged, he couldn't pull his hand out
of the pitcher.

To be sure, if he had let go of the lump of maple sugar he might have
withdrawn his hand easily enough.

But the Major loved sweets too dearly to loosen his hold on any such
toothsome morsel--except to pop it into his mouth.

So he struggled and fretted. He even tried to break the pitcher by
knocking it against the floor.

It might as well have been made of iron, it was so strong. And the
Major only succeeded in hurting his own hand.

Of course he made a great racket. And the hens, who had become used to
his more stealthy visits, began to flutter and squawk. They made such
an uproar at last that Major Monkey wanted to hurl the pitcher at
them. But he couldn't do that, with his hand stuck inside it. And
besides, the pitcher was chained fast to the wall of the henhouse.

And right there lay the Major's greatest trouble. If the pitcher
hadn't been fastened he would have run off on three legs, to the
woods, where he might have tried in peace and quiet to get at the
sugar inside it.

On the whole, Major Monkey spent a most unhappy quarter of an hour in
the henhouse. And the worst moment of all came when the window dropped
with a loud bang.

Then the sound of steps on the threshold made the Major turn his head.

There stood Farmer Green with a broad smile on his face, and Johnnie
Green with his mouth wide open and his eyes bulging.

And with them was a dark-skinned man, short, and with rings in his
ears, and a bright neckerchief tied about his throat.

"Aha-a!" cried the little man. "Look-a da monk! He greed-a boy!" And
picking Major Monkey up in his arms, jug and all, he patted him
fondly, saying, "Ah-a! Bad-a boy! He run-a da way from da ol' man,
no?"

Then--for a soldier--Major Monkey did a strange thing. He began to
whimper. But there is no doubt that he was weeping because he was
glad, and not because he was sorry.

The little, dark man was his master.

And the Major was very, very fond of him. He knew, suddenly, that he
had missed the little man sadly while he roamed about Pleasant Valley.

Though Johnnie Green was staring straight at him, Major Monkey clung
to his captor and held his wrinkled face close to the little man's
cheek.

"He sorra now!" the little man said to Johnnie Green.

"What's his name?" Johnnie inquired.

"Jocko!" said Major Monkey's master. "Dat nice-a name, eh?"

Johnnie Green thought that it was. And Major Monkey himself appeared
to like the sound of it. It was a long time since he had heard it. No
one had called him "Jocko" since that day--weeks before--when he had run
away from his master, the organ-grinder, in the village.


XXIII

The Major Goes South


Out of one of his pockets the hand-organ man pulled a stout collar,
from which dangled a long, thin chain. And Major Monkey made no
protest when his master buckled the collar about his neck.

To tell the truth, the Major appeared to like being a captive. He was
enjoying, especially, the maple sugar which the hand-organ man had
turned out of the pitcher for him.

At the farmhouse, a little later, Major Monkey went through all his
tricks for Johnnie Green and the rest of the family. A CHEERFUL
SUBJECT.

According to an Ohio paper, a double child has been born to a couple
named FINLEY, in Morrow county.

It is, so to speak, a double-ender, being provided with a supplementary
head at the point where the feet are usually situated. The child
is a female-and a very curious amendment to the Sixteenth Amendment,
since, should it arrive at woman's estate, it will, of course, be
entitled to a double vote.

How will it be should one end go Republican and the other Democratic?And when, at length, the organ-grinder
looped the long chain over his arm, slung the organ over his back, and
went toiling up the road, with Major Monkey perched on top of the
hand-organ, Jolly Robin had a very queer feeling. He flew down and
alighted upon Farmer Greene's fence and trilled a quavering good-by.
Major Monkey stood up and made a low bow to him. "He's going South,
after all!" Jolly Robin said to himself. If that was so, old dog Spot
must have been glad of it. Anyhow, he dashed out of the dooryard and
ran a little way up the road, growling and barking, and telling Major
Monkey exactly what he thought of him.

The Major seemed to enjoy old Spot's farewell. "Good-by, Nell," he
whispered; "there's thistles in everybody's crop.
But no matter! I'll come back, and then it's married we'll be. My
goodness, yes, and take Ballacry and have six bas'es, and ten pigs,
and a pony. But, Nelly, will ye wait for me?"Old Spot had trotted back to the farmhouse, looking very brave, in
spite of the scolding Johnnie Green gave him. And Major Monkey was
busily engaged with his apple, when he heard a sound that made him
look up.

"_Caw! Caw!_" It was old Mr. Crow, whose keen eyes had caught sight of
the hand-organ man plodding along with his precious load. Major Monkey
whistled. And just for a moment, as he watched Mr. Crow sailing lazily
overhead, he almost wished that he hadn't been quite so fond of sugar.
For he knew that he could no longer wander through Pleasant Valley
wherever his fancy led him.

But the hand-organ man began singing a merry song. "Perhaps you hadn't
loved him enough?"
"Not that either--that I know of."
"Then why did he say it?"

"Just because I wanted him to respect himself, and have some respect
for his wife, too, and behave as a gentleman, and not as a raw Manx
rabbit from the Calf."Crow in the beginning--was a great
traveller.

THE END




Transcriber's Notes

1. Punctuation has been normalized to contemporary standards.

2. List of books relocated to after title page.

3. Typographic errors corrected in original:
   p. 38 whether he he to whether he ("whether he thought it a good one")
   p. 48 musn't to mustn't ("we mustn't get lost")
   p. 58 mits to mitts ("pair of black mitts")
   p. 119 friend' to friend's ("in her friend's eyes")