"And there's those other two Pepper children," cried Miss
Jerusha after him, with a tart look at Joel, "all over the place.
And Mehitable is baking a cake for 'em--think of it!"

"Is she baking a cake for us?" cried Joel, finding his tongue,
as the minister, still holding his hand, went out toward the
garden.

"Yes," said Parson Henderson, "she is, Joel."

"And I've let out all her hens and chickens!" cried Joel. "O
dear, dear!" and the tears he couldn't hold back any longer
rained all down his chubby face.

"See here," Parson Henderson stopped a minute, "if you're going
to help me, Joel, you can't cry, that's very certain. Why, I
expect you and I will have every one of those chickens safe and
sound in that coop in--well, in next to no time."

"I'll help you!" cried Joel, dashing off the tears at once, and
swallowing hard. "Oh, do hurry, please, Mr. Henderson," pulling
hard at the kind hand.

"Softly--softly there, Joel, my boy," said the minister. "If
we're going to get those chickens into that coop, we mustn't
scare them to begin with. Now, you run into the barn, and get a
little corn in the quart measure."

So Joel, glad of something to do, dropped the minister's hand,
and ran off at lightning speed, and soon raced back again with
the quart measure half full of corn.

"That's well," said Parson Henderson, approvingly. "Now then,
the first thing to do is to make the mother go back into the
coop. Here, Mrs. Biddy, take a bit of this nice corn." He flung
out a kernel or two to the hen, whose feathers that had started
up in a ruffle and fluff, at sight of Joel, now drooped, and her
excited clacking stopped.

"Keep perfectly still, Joel," said Parson Henderson, over his
shoulder.

All this time, Phronsie and David, at sight of Parson
Henderson's approach, had stood as if frozen to the ground,
never taking their eyes from his face, except to look at Joel.
The parson then went along a few steps nearer to the coop,
scattering one or two kernels as he went. Mistress Biddy eyed
them all wistfully. "Come on," said the minister, gently.

"Cluck--cluck," said the mother hen, sociably, and she waddled
slowly, and picked up the first kernels. These were so good that
she came readily after the next, and so followed the parson, as
he let fall two more. The little fluffy balls, when they saw their
mother so employed, all scampered like mad after her, to surround
her. At last, she was so busily employed, that she didn't notice
that she was running into an angle formed by the coop and the
end of the barn. There was a rush. A sudden squawk, and the
parson emerged from this corner, with Mistress Biddy in his hands.

"Now, Joel, you can help me so much," he said cheerily. "Run and
push up the bar to the coop. Be careful not to let any more
chickens out. There, that's right!" In went Mistress Biddy, who
gave an indignant fluff to her gray feathers, and then cackled
crossly, and the bar flew down into place.

"That's fine!" exclaimed the minister in great satisfaction,
getting up straight again. "Now, Joel, it won't be such a task
to catch the little chickens. Come away from the coop, and
they'll run up when they hear her call," which was indeed the
fact. They soon began to scamper as hard as they could from all
directions as Mistress Biddy set up a smart "cluck, cluck,"
until all of the seven were swarming over each other to get into
the coop to mother.

It was surprising, then, to see the minister's hands; they
seemed to be here, there, and everywhere, and to pounce upon
those little fluffy balls with unerring aim, and presently,
there they were, Joel lifting the bar when bidden, in the coop,
"peeping" away and huddling up to the dear gray feathery nest.
The chickens who hadn't run out came up, as if wanting to hear
the story, and what it was like to be out in the world.

