E-text prepared by Jo Churcher, Scarborough, Ontario,
and revised by Joseph E. Loewenstein, M.D.


THE WARDEN

by

Anthony Trollope


CONTENTS

       I.  Hiram's Hospital
      II.  The Barchester Reformer
     III.  The Bishop of Barchester
      IV.  Hiram's Bedesmen
       V.  Dr Grantly Visits the Hospital
      VI.  The Warden's Tea Party
     VII.  _The Jupiter_
    VIII.  Plumstead Episcopi
      IX.  The Conference
       X.  Tribulation
      XI.  Iphigenia
     XII.  Mr Bold's Visit to Plumstead
    XIII.  The Warden's Decision
     XIV.  Mount Olympus
      XV.  Tom Towers, Dr Anticant, and Mr Sentiment
     XVI.  A Long Day in London
    XVII.  Sir Abraham Haphazard
   XVIII.  The Warden Is Very Obstinate
     XIX.  The Warden Resigns
      XX.  Farewell
     XXI.  Conclusion


Chapter I

HIRAM'S HOSPITAL


The Rev. Septimus Harding was, a few years since, a beneficed
clergyman residing in the cathedral town of ----; let us call it
Barchester.  Were we to name Wells or Salisbury, Exeter, Hereford, or
Gloucester, it might be presumed that something personal was intended;
and as this tale will refer mainly to the cathedral dignitaries of the
town in question, we are anxious that no personality may be suspected.
Let us presume that Barchester is a quiet town in the West of England,
more remarkable for the beauty of its cathedral and the antiquity of
its monuments than for any commercial prosperity; that the west end
of Barchester is the cathedral close, and that the aristocracy of
Barchester are the bishop, dean, and canons, with their respective
wives and daughters.

Early in life Mr Harding found himself located at Barchester.  A fine
voice and a taste for sacred music had decided the position in which
he was to exercise his calling, and for many years he performed the
easy but not highly paid duties of a minor canon.  At the age of forty
a small living in the close vicinity of the town increased both his
work and his income, and at the age of fifty he became precentor of
the cathedral.

Mr Harding had married early in life, and was the father of two
daughters.  The eldest, Susan, was born soon after his marriage; the
other, Eleanor, not till ten years later.

At the time at which we introduce him to our readers he was living as
precentor at Barchester with his youngest daughter, then twenty-four
years of age; having been many years a widower, and having married his
eldest daughter to a son of the bishop a very short time before his
installation to the office of precentor.

Scandal at Barchester affirmed that had it not been for the beauty of
his daughter, Mr Harding would have remained a minor canon; but here
probably Scandal lied, as she so often does; for even as a minor canon
no one had been more popular among his reverend brethren in the close
than Mr Harding; and Scandal, before she had reprobated Mr Harding for
being made precentor by his friend the bishop, had loudly blamed the
bishop for having so long omitted to do something for his friend Mr
Harding.  Be this as it may, Susan Harding, some twelve years since,
had married the Rev. Dr Theophilus Grantly, son of the bishop,
archdeacon of Barchester, and rector of Plumstead Episcopi, and her
father became, a few months later, precentor of Barchester Cathedral,
that office being, as is not unusual, in the bishop's gift.

Now there are peculiar circumstances connected with the precentorship
which must be explained.  In the year 1434 there died at Barchester
one John Hiram, who had made money in the town as a wool-stapler, and
in his will he left the house in which he died and certain meadows and
closes near the town, still called Hiram's Butts, and Hiram's Patch,
for the support of twelve superannuated wool-carders, all of whom
should have been born and bred and spent their days in Barchester; he
also appointed that an alms-house should be built for their abode,
with a fitting residence for a warden, which warden was also to
receive a certain sum annually out of the rents of the said butts and
patches.  He, moreover, willed, having had a soul alive to harmony,
that the precentor of the cathedral should have the option of being
also warden of the almshouses, if the bishop in each case approved.

From that day to this the charity had gone on and prospered--at least,
the charity had gone on, and the estates had prospered.  Wool-carding
in Barchester there was no longer any; so the bishop, dean, and
warden, who took it in turn to put in the old men, generally
appointed some hangers-on of their own; worn-out gardeners, decrepit
grave-diggers, or octogenarian sextons, who thankfully received a
comfortable lodging and one shilling and fourpence a day, such being
the stipend to which, under the will of John Hiram, they were declared
to be entitled.  Formerly, indeed,--that is, till within some fifty
years of the present time,--they received but sixpence a day, and
their breakfast and dinner was found them at a common table by the
warden, such an arrangement being in stricter conformity with the
absolute wording of old Hiram's will: but this was thought to be
inconvenient, and to suit the tastes of neither warden nor bedesmen,
and the daily one shilling and fourpence was substituted with the
common consent of all parties, including the bishop and the
corporation of Barchester.

Such was the condition of Hiram's twelve old men when Mr Harding was
appointed warden; but if they may be considered as well-to-do in the
world according to their condition, the happy warden was much more so.
The patches and butts which, in John Hiram's time, produced hay or fed
cows, were now covered with rows of houses; the value of the property
had gradually increased from year to year and century to century, and
was now presumed by those who knew anything about it, to bring in
a very nice income; and by some who knew nothing about it, to have
increased to an almost fabulous extent.

The property was farmed by a gentleman in Barchester, who also acted
as the bishop's steward,--a man whose father and grandfather had been
stewards to the bishops of Barchester, and farmers of John Hiram's
estate.  The Chadwicks had earned a good name in Barchester; they
had lived respected by bishops, deans, canons, and precentors; they
had been buried in the precincts of the cathedral; they had never
been known as griping, hard men, but had always lived comfortably,
maintained a good house, and held a high position in Barchester
society.  The present Mr Chadwick was a worthy scion of a worthy
stock, and the tenants living on the butts and patches, as well as
those on the wide episcopal domains of the see, were well pleased to
have to do with so worthy and liberal a steward.

For many, many years,--records hardly tell how many, probably from
the time when Hiram's wishes had been first fully carried out,--the
proceeds of the estate had been paid by the steward or farmer to the
warden, and by him divided among the bedesmen; after which division
he paid himself such sums as became his due.  Times had been when the
poor warden got nothing but his bare house, for the patches had been
subject to floods, and the land of Barchester butts was said to be
unproductive; and in these hard times the warden was hardly able to
make out the daily dole for his twelve dependents.  But by degrees
things mended; the patches were drained, and cottages began to
rise upon the butts, and the wardens, with fairness enough, repaid
themselves for the evil days gone by.  In bad times the poor men had
had their due, and therefore in good times they could expect no more.
In this manner the income of the warden had increased; the picturesque
house attached to the hospital had been enlarged and adorned, and
the office had become one of the most coveted of the snug clerical
sinecures attached to our church.  It was now wholly in the bishop's
gift, and though the dean and chapter, in former days, made a stand
on the subject, they had thought it more conducive to their honour
to have a rich precentor appointed by the bishop, than a poor one
appointed by themselves.  The stipend of the precentor of Barchester
was eighty pounds a year.  The income arising from the wardenship of
the hospital was eight hundred, besides the value of the house.

Murmurs, very slight murmurs, had been heard in Barchester,--few
indeed, and far between,--that the proceeds of John Hiram's property
had not been fairly divided: but they can hardly be said to have been
of such a nature as to have caused uneasiness to anyone: still the
thing had been whispered, and Mr Harding had heard it.  Such was his
character in Barchester, so universal was his popularity, that the
very fact of his appointment would have quieted louder whispers
than those which had been heard; but Mr Harding was an open-handed,
just-minded man, and feeling that there might be truth in what had
been said, he had, on his instalment, declared his intention of adding
twopence a day to each man's pittance, making a sum of sixty-two
pounds eleven shillings and fourpence, which he was to pay out of
his own pocket.  In doing so, however, he distinctly and repeatedly
observed to the men, that though he promised for himself, he could not
promise for his successors, and that the extra twopence could only
be looked on as a gift from himself, and not from the trust.  The
bedesmen, however, were most of them older than Mr Harding, and were
quite satisfied with the security on which their extra income was
based.

This munificence on the part of Mr Harding had not been unopposed.
Mr Chadwick had mildly but seriously dissuaded him from it; and his
strong-minded son-in-law, the archdeacon, the man of whom alone Mr
Harding stood in awe, had urgently, nay, vehemently, opposed so
impolitic a concession: but the warden had made known his intention
to the hospital before the archdeacon had been able to interfere,
and the deed was done.

Hiram's Hospital, as the retreat is called, is a picturesque building
enough, and shows the correct taste with which the ecclesiastical
architects of those days were imbued.  It stands on the banks of the
little river, which flows nearly round the cathedral close, being on
the side furthest from the town.  The London road crosses the river
by a pretty one-arched bridge, and, looking from this bridge, the
stranger will see the windows of the old men's rooms, each pair of
windows separated by a small buttress.  A broad gravel walk runs
between the building and the river, which is always trim and cared
for; and at the end of the walk, under the parapet of the approach to
the bridge, is a large and well-worn seat, on which, in mild weather,
three or four of Hiram's bedesmen are sure to be seen seated.  Beyond
this row of buttresses, and further from the bridge, and also further
from the water which here suddenly bends, are the pretty oriel windows
of Mr Harding's house, and his well-mown lawn.  The entrance to the
hospital is from the London road, and is made through a ponderous
gateway under a heavy stone arch, unnecessary, one would suppose, at
any time, for the protection of twelve old men, but greatly conducive
to the good appearance of Hiram's charity.  On passing through this
portal, never closed to anyone from 6 A.M. till 10 P.M., and never
open afterwards, except on application to a huge, intricately hung
mediæval bell, the handle of which no uninitiated intruder can
possibly find, the six doors of the old men's abodes are seen, and
beyond them is a slight iron screen, through which the more happy
portion of the Barchester elite pass into the Elysium of Mr Harding's
dwelling.

Mr Harding is a small man, now verging on sixty years, but bearing few
of the signs of age; his hair is rather grizzled, though not gray;
his eye is very mild, but clear and bright, though the double glasses
which are held swinging from his hand, unless when fixed upon his
nose, show that time has told upon his sight; his hands are delicately
white, and both hands and feet are small; he always wears a black
frock coat, black knee-breeches, and black gaiters, and somewhat
scandalises some of his more hyperclerical brethren by a black
neck-handkerchief.

Mr Harding's warmest admirers cannot say that he was ever an
industrious man; the circumstances of his life have not called on
him to be so; and yet he can hardly be called an idler.  Since his
appointment to his precentorship, he has published, with all possible
additions of vellum, typography, and gilding, a collection of our
ancient church music, with some correct dissertations on Purcell,
Crotch, and Nares.  He has greatly improved the choir of Barchester,
which, under his dominion, now rivals that of any cathedral in
England.  He has taken something more than his fair share in the
cathedral services, and has played the violoncello daily to such
audiences as he could collect, or, _faute de mieux_, to no audience
at all.

We must mention one other peculiarity of Mr Harding.  As we have
before stated, he has an income of eight hundred a year, and has no
family but his one daughter; and yet he is never quite at ease in
money matters.  The vellum and gilding of "Harding's Church Music"
cost more than any one knows, except the author, the publisher, and
the Rev. Theophilus Grantly, who allows none of his father-in-law's
extravagances to escape him.  Then he is generous to his daughter, for
whose service he keeps a small carriage and pair of ponies.  He is,
indeed, generous to all, but especially to the twelve old men who are
in a peculiar manner under his care.  No doubt with such an income Mr
Harding should be above the world, as the saying is; but, at any rate,
he is not above Archdeacon Theophilus Grantly, for he is always more
or less in debt to his son-in-law, who has, to a certain extent,
assumed the arrangement of the precentor's pecuniary affairs.


Chapter II

THE BARCHESTER REFORMER


Mr Harding has been now precentor of Barchester for ten years; and,
alas, the murmurs respecting the proceeds of Hiram's estate are again
becoming audible.  It is not that any one begrudges to Mr Harding
the income which he enjoys, and the comfortable place which so well
becomes him; but such matters have begun to be talked of in various
parts of England.  Eager pushing politicians have asserted in the
House of Commons, with very telling indignation, that the grasping
priests of the Church of England are gorged with the wealth which the
charity of former times has left for the solace of the aged, or the
education of the young.  The well-known case of the Hospital of St
Cross has even come before the law courts of the country, and the
struggles of Mr Whiston, at Rochester, have met with sympathy and
support.  Men are beginning to say that these things must be looked
into.

Mr Harding, whose conscience in the matter is clear, and who has never
felt that he had received a pound from Hiram's will to which he was
not entitled, has naturally taken the part of the church in talking
over these matters with his friend, the bishop, and his son-in-law,
the archdeacon.  The archdeacon, indeed, Dr Grantly, has been somewhat
loud in the matter.  He is a personal friend of the dignitaries of the
Rochester Chapter, and has written letters in the public press on the
subject of that turbulent Dr Whiston, which, his admirers think, must
well nigh set the question at rest.  It is also known at Oxford that
he is the author of the pamphlet signed "Sacerdos" on the subject of
the Earl of Guildford and St Cross, in which it is so clearly argued
that the manners of the present times do not admit of a literal
adhesion to the very words of the founder's will, but that the
interests of the church for which the founder was so deeply concerned
are best consulted in enabling its bishops to reward those shining
lights whose services have been most signally serviceable to
Christianity.  In answer to this, it is asserted that Henry de Blois,
founder of St Cross, was not greatly interested in the welfare of the
reformed church, and that the masters of St Cross, for many years
past, cannot be called shining lights in the service of Christianity;
it is, however, stoutly maintained, and no doubt felt, by all the
archdeacon's friends, that his logic is conclusive, and has not, in
fact, been answered.

With such a tower of strength to back both his arguments and his
conscience, it may be imagined that Mr Harding has never felt any
compunction as to receiving his quarterly sum of two hundred pounds.
Indeed, the subject has never presented itself to his mind in that
shape.  He has talked not unfrequently, and heard very much about the
wills of old founders and the incomes arising from their estates,
during the last year or two; he did even, at one moment, feel a
doubt (since expelled by his son-in-law's logic) as to whether Lord
Guildford was clearly entitled to receive so enormous an income
as he does from the revenues of St Cross; but that he himself was
overpaid with his modest eight hundred pounds,--he who, out of that,
voluntarily gave up sixty-two pounds eleven shillings and fourpence a
year to his twelve old neighbours,--he who, for the money, does his
precentor's work as no precentor has done it before, since Barchester
Cathedral was built,--such an idea has never sullied his quiet, or
disturbed his conscience.

Nevertheless, Mr Harding is becoming uneasy at the rumour which he
knows to prevail in Barchester on the subject.  He is aware that, at
any rate, two of his old men have been heard to say, that if everyone
had his own, they might each have their hundred pounds a year, and
live like gentlemen, instead of a beggarly one shilling and sixpence
a day; and that they had slender cause to be thankful for a miserable
dole of twopence, when Mr Harding and Mr Chadwick, between them, ran
away with thousands of pounds which good old John Hiram never intended
for the like of them.  It is the ingratitude of this which stings Mr
Harding.  One of this discontented pair, Abel Handy, was put into the
hospital by himself; he had been a stone-mason in Barchester, and had
broken his thigh by a fall from a scaffolding, while employed about
the cathedral; and Mr Harding had given him the first vacancy in the
hospital after the occurrence, although Dr Grantly had been very
anxious to put into it an insufferable clerk of his at Plumstead
Episcopi, who had lost all his teeth, and whom the archdeacon hardly
knew how to get rid of by other means.  Dr Grantly has not forgotten
to remind Mr Harding how well satisfied with his one-and-sixpence a
day old Joe Mutters would have been, and how injudicious it was on the
part of Mr Harding to allow a radical from the town to get into the
concern. Probably Dr Grantly forgot, at the moment, that the charity
was intended for broken-down journeymen of Barchester.

There is living at Barchester, a young man, a surgeon, named John
Bold, and both Mr Harding and Dr Grantly are well aware that to him
is owing the pestilent rebellious feeling which has shown itself in
the hospital; yes, and the renewal, too, of that disagreeable talk
about Hiram's estates which is now again prevalent in Barchester.
Nevertheless, Mr Harding and Mr Bold are acquainted with each other;
we may say, are friends, considering the great disparity in their
years.  Dr Grantly, however, has a holy horror of the impious
demagogue, as on one occasion he called Bold, when speaking of him
to the precentor; and being a more prudent far-seeing man than Mr
Harding, and possessed of a stronger head, he already perceives that
this John Bold will work great trouble in Barchester.  He considers
that he is to be regarded as an enemy, and thinks that he should not
be admitted into the camp on anything like friendly terms.  Thompson

ON THE METHOD OF ZADIG
ESSAY #1 FROM "SCIENCE AND HEBREW TRADITION"
By Thomas Henry Huxley

RETROSPECTIVE PROPHECY AS A FUNCTION OF SCIENCE
"Une marque plus sure que toutes celles de Zadig." [1]--Cuvier.

It is an usual and a commendable practice to preface the discussion
of the views of a philosophic thinker by some account of the man and
of the circumstances which shaped his life and coloured his way
of looking at things; but, though Zadig is cited in one of the most
important chapters of Cuvier's greatest work, little is known about
him, and that little might perhaps be better authenticated than
it is.

It is said that he lived at Babylon in the time of King Moabdar; but
the name of Moabdar does not appear in the list of Babylonian
sovereigns brought to light by the patience and the industry of the
decipherers of cuneiform inscriptions in these later years; nor indeed
am I aware that there is any other authority for his existence than
that of the biographer of Zadig, one Arouet de Voltaire, among whose
more conspicuous merits strict historical accuracy is perhaps hardly
to be reckoned.

Happily Zadig is in the position of a great many other philosophers.

What he was like when he was in the flesh, indeed whether he existed
at all, are matters of no great consequence. What we care about in a
light is that it shows the way, not whether it is lamp or candle,
tallow or wax. Our only real interest in Zadig lies in the conceptions
of which he is the putative father; and his biographer has stated
these with so much clearness and vivacious illustration, that we
need hardly feel a pang, even if critical research should prove King
Moabdar and all the rest of the story to be unhistorical, and reduce
Zadig himself to the shadowy condition of a solar myth.

Voltaire tells us that, disenchanted with life by sundry domestic
misadventures, Zadig withdrew from the turmoil of Babylon to a
secluded retreat on the banks of the Euphrates, where he beguiled his
solitude by the study of nature. The manifold wonders of the world of
life had a particular attraction for the lonely student; incessant
and patient observation of the plants and animals about him sharpened
his naturally good powers of observation and of reasoning; until,
at length, he acquired a sagacity which enabled him to perceive endless
minute differences among objects which, to the untutored eye,
appeared absolutely alike.

It might have been expected that this enlargement of the powers of
the mind and of its store of natural knowledge could tend to nothing
but the increase of a man's own welfare and the good of his fellow-men.
But Zadig was fated to experience the vanity of such expectations.

"One day, walking near a little wood, he saw, hastening that way,
one of the Queen's chief eunuchs, followed by a troop of officials,
who appeared to be in the greatest anxiety, running hither and
thither like men distraught, in search of some lost treasure.

"'Young man,' cried the eunuch, 'have you seen the Queen's dog?' Zadig
answered modestly, 'A bitch, I think, not a dog.' 'Quite right,'
replied the eunuch; and Zadig continued, 'A very small spaniel
who has lately had puppies; she limps with the left foreleg, and has
very long ears.' 'Ah! you have seen her then,' said the breathless
eunuch. 'No,' answered Zadig, 'I have not seen her; and I really was
not aware that the Queen possessed a spaniel.'
"By an odd coincidence, at the very same time, the handsomest horse
in the King's stables broke away from his groom in the Babylonian
plain.

The grand huntsman and all his staff were seeking the horse with as
much anxiety as the eunuch and his people the spaniel; and the grand
huntsman asked Zadig if he had not seen the King's horse go that
way.

"'A first-rate galloper, small-hoofed, five feet high; tail three feet
and a half long; cheek pieces of the bit of twenty-three carat
gold; shoes silver?' said Zadig.

"'Which way did he go? Where is he?' cried the grand huntsman.

"'I have not seen anything of the horse, and I never heard of him
before,' replied Zadig.

"The grand huntsman and the chief eunuch made sure that Zadig had stolen
both the King's horse and the Queen's spaniel, so they haled him
before the High Court of Desterham, which at once condemned him to
the knout, and transportation for life to Siberia.

But the sentence was hardly pronounced when the lost horse and spaniel
were found. So the judges were under the painful necessity of reconsidering
their decision: but they fined Zadig four hundred ounces of gold
for saying he had seen that which he had not seen.

"The first thing was to pay the fine; afterwards Zadig was permitted
to open his defence to the court, which he did in the following
terms:

"'Stars of justice, abysses of knowledge, mirrors of truth, whose
gravity is as that of lead, whose inflexibility is as that of iron,
who rival the diamond in clearness, and possess no little affinity with
gold; since I am permitted to address your august assembly, I swear by
Ormuzd that I have never seen the respectable lady dog of the Queen,
nor beheld the sacrosanct horse of the King of Kings.

"'This is what happened. I was taking a walk towards the little
wood near which I subsequently had the honour to meet the venerable
chief eunuch and the most illustrious grand huntsman.
I noticed the track of an animal in the sand, and it was easy
to see that it was that of a small dog. Long faint streaks upon the
little elevations of sand between the footmarks convinced me that
it was a she dog with pendent dugs, showing that she must have had
puppies not many days since.

Other scrapings of the sand, which always lay close to the marks of
the forepaws, indicated that she had very long ears; and, as the imprint
of one foot was always fainter than those of the other three, I
judged that the lady dog of our august Queen was, if I may venture
to say so, a little lame.

"'With respect to the horse of the King of Kings, permit me to observe
that, wandering through the paths which traverse the wood, I noticed
the marks of horse-shoes. They were all equidistant. "Ah!" said I,
"this is a famous galloper."

In a narrow alley, only seven feet wide, the dust upon the trunks
of the trees was a little disturbed at three feet and a half from
the middle of the path. "This horse," said I to myself, "had a tail
three feet and a half long, and, lashing it from one side to the
other, he has swept away the dust." Branches of the trees met overhead
at the height of five feet, and under them I saw newly fallen leaves;
so I knew that the horse had brushed some of the branches, and was
therefore five feet high.

As to his bit, it must have been made of twenty-three carat gold, for
he had rubbed it against a stone, which turned out to be a touchstone,
with the properties of which I am familiar by experiment.

Lastly, by the marks which his shoes left upon pebbles of another kind,
I was led to think that his shoes were of fine silver.'

"All the judges admired Zadig's profound and subtle discernment; and
the fame of it reached even the King and the Queen. From the ante-rooms
to the presence-chamber, Zadig's name was in everybody's mouth; and,
although many of the magi were of opinion that he ought to be burnt
as a sorcerer, the King commanded that the four hundred ounces of
gold which he had been fined should be restored to him.

So the officers of the court went in state with the four hundred
ounces; only they retained three hundred and ninety-eight for legal
expenses, and their servants expected fees."

Those who are interested in learning more of the fateful history of
Zadig must turn to the original; we are dealing with him only as
a philosopher, and this brief excerpt suffices for the exemplification
of the nature of his conclusions and of the methods by which he arrived
at them.

These conclusions may be said to be of the nature of retrospective
prophecies; though it is perhaps a little hazardous to employ
phraseology which perilously suggests a contradiction in terms--the
word "prophecy" being so constantly, in ordinary use, restricted
to "foretelling."

Strictly, however, the term prophecy applies as much to outspeaking
as to foretelling; and, even in the restricted sense of "divination,"
it is obvious that the essence of the prophetic operation does not
lie in its backward or forward relation to the course of time, but
in the fact that it is the apprehension of that which lies out of the
sphere of immediate knowledge; the seeing of that which, to the natural
sense of the seer, is invisible.

The foreteller asserts that, at some future time, a properly situated
observer will witness certain events; the clairvoyant declares
that, at this present time, certain things are to be witnessed a
thousand miles away; the retrospective prophet (would that there
were such a word as "backteller!")

affirms that, so many hours or years ago, such and such things were to
be seen.

In all these cases, it is only the relation to time which alters--the
process of divination beyond the limits of possible direct knowledge
remains the same.

No doubt it was their instinctive recognition of the analogy between
Zadig's results and those obtained by authorised inspiration which
inspired the Babylonian magi with the desire to burn the philosopher.

Zadig admitted that he had never either seen or heard of the horse of
the king or of the spaniel of the queen; and yet he ventured to assert
in the most positive manner that animals answering to their description
did actually exist and ran about the plains of Babylon. If his
method was good for the divination of the course of events ten hours
old, why should it not be good for those of ten years or ten centuries
past; nay, might it not extend ten thousand years and justify the impious
in meddling with the traditions of Oannes and the fish, and all the
sacred foundations of Babylonian cosmogony?

But this was not the worst. There was another consideration which
obviously dictated to the more thoughtful of the magi the propriety
of burning Zadig out of hand. His defence was worse than his offence.
It showed that his mode of divination was fraught with danger to
magianism in general. Swollen with the pride of human reason, he
had ignored the established canons of magian lore; and, trusting
to what after all was mere carnal common sense, he professed to
lead men to a deeper insight into nature than magian wisdom, with
all its lofty antagonism to everything common, had ever reached.

What, in fact, lay at the foundation of all Zadig's argument but the
coarse commonplace assumption, upon which every act of our daily lives
is based, that we may conclude from an effect to the pre-existence
of a cause competent to produce that effect?

The tracks were exactly like those which dogs and horses leave; therefore
they were the effects of such animals as causes. The marks at the
sides of the fore-prints of the dog track were exactly such as would
be produced by long trailing ears; therefore the dog's long ears were
the causes of these marks--and so on. Nothing can be more hopelessly
vulgar, more unlike the majestic development of a system of grandly
unintelligible conclusions from sublimely inconceivable premisses such
as delights the magian heart. In fact, Zadig's method was nothing
but the method of all mankind. Retrospective prophecies, far more
astonishing for their minute accuracy than those of Zadig, are familiar
to those who have watched the daily life of nomadic people.

From freshly broken twigs, crushed leaves, disturbed pebbles, and imprints
hardly discernible by the untrained eye, such graduates in the University
of Nature will divine, not only the fact that a party has passed
that way, but its strength, its composition, the course it took,
and the number of hours or days which have elapsed since it passed.

But they are able to do this because, like Zadig, they perceive
endless minute differences where untrained eyes discern nothing; and
because the unconscious logic of common sense compels them to account
for these effects by the causes which they know to be competent to
produce them.

And such mere methodised savagery was to discover the hidden things
of nature better than _a priori_ deductions from the nature of
Ormuzd--perhaps to give a history of the past, in which Oannes would
be altogether ignored!

Decidedly it were better to burn this man at once.

If instinct, or an unwonted use of reason, led Moabdar's magi to this
conclusion two or three thousand years ago, all that can be said is
that subsequent history has fully justified them. For the rigorous
application of Zadig's logic to the results of accurate and
long-continued observation has founded all those sciences which have
been termed historical or palaetiological, because they are
retrospectively prophetic and strive towards the reconstruction in
human imagination of events which have vanished and ceased to be.

History, in the ordinary acceptation of the word, is based upon the
interpretation of documentary evidence; and documents would have
no evidential value unless historians were justified in their
assumption that they have come into existence by the operation of
causes similar to those of which documents are, in our present
experience, the effects.

If a written history can be produced otherwise than by human agency,
or if the man who wrote a given document was actuated by other than
ordinary human motives, such documents are of no more evidential value
than so many arabesques.

Archaeology, which takes up the thread of history beyond the point
at which documentary evidence fails us, could have no existence,
except for our well grounded confidence that monuments and works
of art or artifice, have never been produced by causes different
in kind from those to which they now owe their origin. And geology,
which traces back the course of history beyond the limits of
archaeology, could tell us nothing except for the assumption that,
millions of years ago, water, heat, gravitation, friction, animal
and vegetable life, caused effects of the same kind as they now cause.
Nay, even physical astronomy, in so far as it takes us back to the
uttermost point of time which palaetiological science can reach, is
founded upon the same assumption.

If the law of gravitation ever failed to be true, even to a small
extent, for that period, the calculations of the astronomer have no
application.

The power of prediction, of prospective prophecy, is that which is
commonly regarded as the great prerogative of physical science. And
truly it is a wonderful fact that one can go into a shop and buy
for a small price a book, the "Nautical Almanac," which will foretell
the exact position to be occupied by one of Jupiter's moons six
months hence; nay, more, that, if it were worth while, the
Astronomer-Royal could furnish us with as infallible a prediction
applicable to 1980 or 2980.

But astronomy is not less remarkable for its power of retrospective
prophecy.

Thales, oldest of Greek philosophers, the dates of whose birth and death
are uncertain, but who flourished about 600 B.C., is said to have
foretold an eclipse of the sun which took place in his time during
a battle between the Medes and the Lydians. Sir George Airy has
written a very learned and interesting memoir [2] in which he proves
that such an eclipse was visible in Lydia on the afternoon of the
28th of May in the year 585 B.C.
No one doubts that, on the day and at the hour mentioned by the
Astronomer-Royal, the people of Lydia saw the face of the sun totally
obscured. But, though we implicitly believe this retrospective
prophecy, it is incapable of verification. In the total absence of
historical records, it is impossible even to conceive any means of
ascertaining directly whether the eclipse of Thales happened or
not. All that can be said is, that the prospective prophecies of
the astronomer are always verified; and that, inasmuch as his
retrospective prophecies are the result of following backwards, the
very same method as that which invariably leads to verified results,
when it is worked forwards, there is as much reason for placing
full confidence in the one as in the other.This was of course refused, Mr Chadwick alleging that he had no
authority for making public the concerns of a property in managing
which he was only a paid servant.

"And who is competent to give you that authority, Mr Chadwick?" asked
Bold.

"Only those who employ me, Mr Bold," said the steward.

"And who are those, Mr Chadwick?" demanded Bold.

Mr Chadwick begged to say that if these inquiries were made merely
out of curiosity, he must decline answering them: if Mr Bold had any
ulterior proceeding in view, perhaps it would be desirable that any
necessary information should be sought for in a professional way by
a professional man.  Mr Chadwick's attorneys were Messrs Cox and
Cummins, of Lincoln's Inn.  Mr Bold took down the address of Cox and
Cummins, remarked that the weather was cold for the time of the year,
and wished Mr Chadwick good-morning.  Mr Chadwick said it was cold
for June, and bowed him out.

He at once went to his lawyer, Finney.  Now, Bold was not very fond
of his attorney, but, as he said, he merely wanted a man who knew the
forms of law, and who would do what he was told for his money.  He
had no idea of putting himself in the hands of a lawyer.  He wanted
law from a lawyer as he did a coat from a tailor, because he could
not make it so well himself; and he thought Finney the fittest man
in Barchester for his purpose.  In one respect, at any rate, he was
right: Finney was humility itself.

Finney advised an instant letter to Cox and Cummins, mindful of
his six-and-eightpence.  "Slap at them at once, Mr Bold.  Demand
categorically and explicitly a full statement of the affairs of the
hospital."

"Suppose I were to see Mr Harding first," suggested Bold.

"Yes, yes, by all means," said the acquiescing Finney; "though,
perhaps, as Mr Harding is no man of business, it may lead--lead
to some little difficulties; but perhaps you're right.  Mr Bold, I
don't think seeing Mr Harding can do any harm."  Finney saw from the
expression of his client's face that he intended to have his own way.


Chapter III

THE BISHOP OF BARCHESTER


Bold at once repaired to the hospital.  The day was now far advanced,
but he knew that Mr Harding dined in the summer at four, that Eleanor
was accustomed to drive in the evening, and that he might therefore
probably find Mr Harding alone.  It was between seven and eight when
he reached the slight iron gate leading into the precentor's garden,
and though, as Mr Chadwick observed, the day had been cold for June,
the evening was mild, and soft, and sweet.  The little gate was open.
As he raised the latch he heard the notes of Mr Harding's violoncello
from the far end of the garden, and, advancing before the house
and across the lawn, he found him playing;--and not without an
audience. The musician was seated in a garden-chair just within the
summer-house, so as to allow the violoncello which he held between his
knees to rest upon the dry stone flooring; before him stood a rough
music desk, on which was open a page of that dear sacred book, that
much-laboured and much-loved volume of church music, which had cost so
many guineas; and around sat, and lay, and stood, and leaned, ten of
the twelve old men who dwelt with him beneath old John Hiram's roof.
The two reformers were not there.  I will not say that in their hearts
they were conscious of any wrong done or to be done to their mild
warden, but latterly they had kept aloof from him, and his music was
no longer to their taste.

It was amusing to see the positions, and eager listening faces of
these well-to-do old men.  I will not say that they all appreciated
the music which they heard, but they were intent on appearing to
do so; pleased at being where they were, they were determined, as
far as in them lay, to give pleasure in return; and they were not
unsuccessful.  It gladdened the precentor's heart to think that the
old bedesmen whom he loved so well admired the strains which were to
him so full of almost ecstatic joy; and he used to boast that such was
the air of the hospital, as to make it a precinct specially fit for
the worship of St Cecilia.

Immediately before him, on the extreme corner of the bench which
ran round the summer-house, sat one old man, with his handkerchief
smoothly lain upon his knees, who did enjoy the moment, or acted
enjoyment well.  He was one on whose large frame many years, for he
was over eighty, had made small havoc;--he was still an upright,
burly, handsome figure, with an open, ponderous brow, round which
clung a few, though very few, thin gray locks.  The coarse black gown
of the hospital, the breeches, and buckled shoes became him well; and
as he sat with his hands folded on his staff, and his chin resting on
his hands, he was such a listener as most musicians would be glad to
welcome.

This man was certainly the pride of the hospital.  It had always been
the custom that one should be selected as being to some extent in
authority over the others; and though Mr Bunce, for such was his name,
and so he was always designated by his inferior brethren, had no
greater emoluments than they, he had assumed, and well knew how to
maintain, the dignity of his elevation.  The precentor delighted to
call him his sub-warden, and was not ashamed, occasionally, when no
other guest was there, to bid him sit down by the same parlour fire,
and drink the full glass of port which was placed near him.  Bunce
never went without the second glass, but no entreaty ever made him
take a third.

"Well, well, Mr Harding; you're too good, much too good," he'd always
say, as the second glass was filled; but when that was drunk, and the
half hour over, Bunce stood erect, and with a benediction which his
patron valued, retired to his own abode.  He knew the world too well
to risk the comfort of such halcyon moments, by prolonging them till
they were disagreeable.

Mr Bunce, as may be imagined, was most strongly opposed to innovation.
Not even Dr Grantly had a more holy horror of those who would
interfere in the affairs of the hospital; he was every inch a
churchman, and though he was not very fond of Dr Grantly personally,
that arose from there not being room in the hospital for two people
so much alike as the doctor and himself, rather than from any
dissimilarity in feeling.  Mr Bunce was inclined to think that
the warden and himself could manage the hospital without further
assistance; and that, though the bishop was the constitutional
visitor, and as such entitled to special reverence from all connected
with John Hiram's will, John Hiram never intended that his affairs
should be interfered with by an archdeacon.

At the present moment, however, these cares were off his mind, and he
was looking at his warden, as though he thought the music heavenly,
and the musician hardly less so.

As Bold walked silently over the lawn, Mr Harding did not at first
perceive him, and continued to draw his bow slowly across the
plaintive wires; but he soon found from his audience that some
stranger was there, and looking up, began to welcome his young friend
with frank hospitality.

"Pray, Mr Harding--pray don't let me disturb you," said Bold; "you
know how fond I am of sacred music."

"Oh! it's nothing," said the precentor, shutting up the book and then
opening it again as he saw the delightfully imploring look of his old
friend Bunce.  Oh, Bunce, Bunce, Bunce, I fear that after all thou art
but a flatterer.  "Well, I'll just finish it then; it's a favourite
little bit of Bishop's; and then, Mr Bold, we'll have a stroll and
a chat till Eleanor comes in and gives us tea."  And so Bold sat
down on the soft turf to listen, or rather to think how, after such
sweet harmony, he might best introduce a theme of so much discord, to
disturb the peace of him who was so ready to welcome him kindly.

Bold thought that the performance was soon over, for he felt that
he had a somewhat difficult task, and he almost regretted the final
leave-taking of the last of the old men, slow as they were in going
through their adieux.

Bold's heart was in his mouth, as the precentor made some ordinary but
kind remark as to the friendliness of the visit.

"One evening call," said he, "is worth ten in the morning.  It's all
formality in the morning; real social talk never begins till after
dinner.  That's why I dine early, so as to get as much as I can of
it."

"Quite true, Mr Harding," said the other; "but I fear I've reversed
the order of things, and I owe you much apology for troubling you on
business at such an hour; but it is on business that I have called
just now."

Mr Harding looked blank and annoyed; there was something in the
tone of the young man's voice which told him that the interview was
intended to be disagreeable, and he shrank back at finding his kindly
greeting so repulsed.

"I wish to speak to you about the hospital," continued Bold.

"Well, well, anything I can tell you I shall be most happy--"

"It's about the accounts."

"Then, my dear fellow, I can tell you nothing, for I'm as ignorant
as a child.  All I know is, that they pay me £800 a year.  Go to
Chadwick, he knows all about the accounts; and now tell me, will poor
Mary Jones ever get the use of her limb again?"

"Well, I think she will, if she's careful; but, Mr Harding, I hope
you won't object to discuss with me what I have to say about the
hospital."

Mr Harding gave a deep, long-drawn sigh.  He did object, very strongly
object, to discuss any such subject with John Bold; but he had not the
business tact of Mr Chadwick, and did not know how to relieve himself
from the coming evil; he sighed sadly, but made no answer.

"I have the greatest regard for you, Mr Harding," continued Bold; "the
truest respect, the most sincere--"

"Thank ye, thank ye, Mr Bold," interjaculated the precentor somewhat
impatiently; "I'm much obliged, but never mind that; I'm as likely to
be in the wrong as another man,--quite as likely."

"But, Mr Harding, I must express what I feel, lest you should think
there is personal enmity in what I'm going to do."

"Personal enmity!  Going to do!  Why, you're not going to cut my
throat, nor put me into the Ecclesiastical Court!"

Bold tried to laugh, but he couldn't.  He was quite in earnest, and
determined in his course, and couldn't make a joke of it.  He walked
on awhile in silence before he recommenced his attack, during which
Mr Harding, who had still the bow in his hand, played rapidly on an
imaginary violoncello.  "I fear there is reason to think that John
Hiram's will is not carried out to the letter, Mr Harding," said the
young man at last; "and I have been asked to see into it."

"Very well, I've no objection on earth; and now we need not say
another word about it."

"Only one word more, Mr Harding.  Chadwick has referred me to Cox and
Cummins, and I think it my duty to apply to them for some statement
about the hospital.  In what I do I may appear to be interfering with
you, and I hope you will forgive me for doing so."

"Mr Bold," said the other, stopping, and speaking with some solemnity,
"if you act justly, say nothing in this matter but the truth, and use
no unfair weapons in carrying out your purposes, I shall have nothing
to forgive.  I presume you think I am not entitled to the income
I receive from the hospital, and that others are entitled to it.
Whatever some may do, I shall never attribute to you base motives
because you hold an opinion opposed to my own and adverse to my
interests: pray do what you consider to be your duty; I can give
you no assistance, neither will I offer you any obstacle.  Let me,
however, suggest to you, that you can in no wise forward your views
nor I mine, by any discussion between us.  Here comes Eleanor and the
ponies, and we'll go in to tea."

Bold, however, felt that he could not sit down at ease with Mr Harding
and his daughter after what had passed, and therefore excused himself
with much awkward apology; and merely raising his hat and bowing as he
passed Eleanor and the pony chair, left her in disappointed amazement
at his departure.

Mr Harding's demeanour certainly impressed Bold with a full conviction
that the warden felt that he stood on strong grounds, and almost made
him think that he was about to interfere without due warrant in the
private affairs of a just and honourable man; but Mr Harding himself
was anything but satisfied with his own view of the case.

In the first place, he wished for Eleanor's sake to think well of
Bold and to like him, and yet he could not but feel disgusted at the
arrogance of his conduct.  What right had he to say that John Hiram's
will was not fairly carried out?  But then the question would arise
within his heart,--Was that will fairly acted on?  Did John Hiram mean
that the warden of his hospital should receive considerably more out
of the legacy than all the twelve old men together for whose behoof
the hospital was built?  Could it be possible that John Bold was
right, and that the reverend warden of the hospital had been for the
last ten years and more the unjust recipient of an income legally and
equitably belonging to others?  What if it should be proved before
the light of day that he, whose life had been so happy, so quiet,
so respected, had absorbed eight thousand pounds to which he had no
title, and which he could never repay?  I do not say that he feared
that such was really the case; but the first shade of doubt now fell
across his mind, and from this evening, for many a long, long day,
our good, kind loving warden was neither happy nor at ease.

Thoughts of this kind, these first moments of much misery, oppressed
Mr Harding as he sat sipping his tea, absent and ill at ease.  Poor
Eleanor felt that all was not right, but her ideas as to the cause of
the evening's discomfort did not go beyond her lover, and his sudden
and uncivil departure.  She thought there must have been some quarrel
between Bold and her father, and she was half angry with both, though
she did not attempt to explain to herself why she was so.

Mr Harding thought long and deeply over these things, both before he
went to bed and after it, as he lay awake, questioning within himself
the validity of his claim to the income which he enjoyed.  It seemed
clear at any rate that, however unfortunate he might be at having been
placed in such a position, no one could say that he ought either to
have refused the appointment first, or to have rejected the income
afterwards.  All the world,--meaning the ecclesiastical world as
confined to the English church,--knew that the wardenship of the
Barchester Hospital was a snug sinecure, but no one had ever been
blamed for accepting it.  To how much blame, however, would he have
been open had he rejected it!  How mad would he have been thought had
he declared, when the situation was vacant and offered to him, that he
had scruples as to receiving £800 a year from John Hiram's property,
and that he had rather some stranger should possess it!  How would Dr
Grantly have shaken his wise head, and have consulted with his friends
in the close as to some decent retreat for the coming insanity of the
poor minor canon!  If he was right in accepting the place, it was
clear to him also that he would be wrong in rejecting any part of the
income attached to it.  The patronage was a valuable appanage of the
bishopric; and surely it would not be his duty to lessen the value
of that preferment which had been bestowed on himself; surely he was
bound to stand by his order.

But somehow these arguments, though they seemed logical, were not
satisfactory.  Was John Hiram's will fairly carried out? that was the
true question: and if not, was it not his especial duty to see that
this was done,--his especial duty, whatever injury it might do to
his order,--however ill such duty might be received by his patron and
his friends?  At the idea of his friends, his mind turned unhappily
to his son-in-law.  He knew well how strongly he would be supported
by Dr Grantly, if he could bring himself to put his case into the
archdeacon's hands and to allow him to fight the battle; but he knew
also that he would find no sympathy there for his doubts, no friendly
feeling, no inward comfort.  Dr Grantly would be ready enough to take
up his cudgel against all comers on behalf of the church militant,
but he would do so on the distasteful ground of the church's
infallibility.  Such a contest would give no comfort to Mr Harding's
doubts.  He was not so anxious to prove himself right, as to be so.

I have said before that Dr Grantly was the working man of the diocese,
and that his father the bishop was somewhat inclined to an idle life.
So it was; but the bishop, though he had never been an active man, was
one whose qualities had rendered him dear to all who knew him.  He
was the very opposite to his son; he was a bland and a kind old man,
opposed by every feeling to authoritative demonstrations and episcopal
ostentation.  It was perhaps well for him, in his situation, that his
son had early in life been able to do that which he could not well do
when he was younger, and which he could not have done at all now that
he was over seventy.  The bishop knew how to entertain the clergy
of his diocese, to talk easy small-talk with the rectors' wives,
and put curates at their ease; but it required the strong hand of
the archdeacon to deal with such as were refractory either in their
doctrines or their lives.

The bishop and Mr Harding loved each other warmly.  They had grown old
together, and had together spent many, many years in clerical pursuits
and clerical conversation.  When one of them was a bishop and the
other only a minor canon they were even then much together; but since
their children had married, and Mr Harding had become warden and
precentor, they were all in all to each other.  I will not say that
they managed the diocese between them, but they spent much time in
discussing the man who did, and in forming little plans to mitigate
his wrath against church delinquents, and soften his aspirations for
church dominion.

Mr Harding determined to open his mind and confess his doubts to
his old friend; and to him he went on the morning after John Bold's
uncourteous visit.

Up to this period no rumour of these cruel proceedings against the
hospital had reached the bishop's ears.  He had doubtless heard that
men existed who questioned his right to present to a sinecure of £800
a year, as he had heard from time to time of some special immorality
or disgraceful disturbance in the usually decent and quiet city of
Barchester: but all he did, and all he was called on to do, on such
occasions, was to shake his head, and to beg his son, the great
dictator, to see that no harm happened to the church.

It was a long story that Mr Harding had to tell before he made the
bishop comprehend his own view of the case; but we need not follow
him through the tale.  At first the bishop counselled but one step,
recommended but one remedy, had but one medicine in his whole
pharmacopoeia strong enough to touch so grave a disorder;--he
prescribed the archdeacon.  "Refer him to the archdeacon," he
repeated, as Mr Harding spoke of Bold and his visit.  "The archdeacon
will set you quite right about that," he kindly said, when his friend
spoke with hesitation of the justness of his cause.  "No man has got
up all that so well as the archdeacon;" but the dose, though large,
failed to quiet the patient; indeed it almost produced nausea.

"But, bishop," said he, "did you ever read John Hiram's will?"

The bishop thought probably he had, thirty-five years ago, when
first instituted to his see, but could not state positively: however,
he very well knew that he had the absolute right to present to the
wardenship, and that the income of the warden had been regularly
settled.

"But, bishop, the question is, who has the power to settle it?
If, as this young man says, the will provides that the proceeds of
the property are to be divided into shares, who has the power to
alter these provisions?"  The bishop had an indistinct idea that
they altered themselves by the lapse of years; that a kind of
ecclesiastical statute of limitation barred the rights of the twelve
bedesmen to any increase of income arising from the increased value of
property.  He said something about tradition; more of the many learned
men who by their practice had confirmed the present arrangement;
then went at some length into the propriety of maintaining the due
difference in rank and income between a beneficed clergyman and
certain poor old men who were dependent on charity; and concluded his
argument by another reference to the archdeacon.

The precentor sat thoughtfully gazing at the fire, and listening to
the good-natured reasoning of his friend.  What the bishop said had a
sort of comfort in it, but it was not a sustaining comfort.  It made
Mr Harding feel that many others,--indeed, all others of his own
order,--would think him right; but it failed to prove to him that he
truly was so.

"Bishop," said he, at last, after both had sat silent for a while, "I
should deceive you and myself too, if I did not tell you that I am
very unhappy about this.  Suppose that I cannot bring myself to agree
with Dr Grantly!--that I find, after inquiry, that the young man is
right, and that I am wrong,--what then?"

The two old men were sitting near each other,--so near that the bishop
was able to lay his hand upon the other's knee, and he did so with a
gentle pressure.  Mr Harding well knew what that pressure meant.  The
bishop had no further argument to adduce; he could not fight for the
cause as his son would do; he could not prove all the precentor's
doubts to be groundless; but he could sympathise with his friend, and
he did so; and Mr Harding felt that he had received that for which he
came.  There was another period of silence, after which the bishop
asked, with a degree of irritable energy, very unusual with him,
whether this "pestilent intruder" (meaning John Bold) had any friends
in Barchester.

Mr Harding had fully made up his mind to tell the bishop everything;
to speak of his daughter's love, as well as his own troubles; to talk
of John Bold in his double capacity of future son-in-law and present
enemy; and though he felt it to be sufficiently disagreeable, now was
his time to do it.

"He is very intimate at my own house, bishop."  The bishop stared.  He
was not so far gone in orthodoxy and church militancy as his son, but
still he could not bring himself to understand how so declared an
enemy of the establishment could be admitted on terms of intimacy into
the house, not only of so firm a pillar as Mr Harding, but one so much
injured as the warden of the hospital.

"Indeed, I like Mr Bold much, personally," continued the disinterested
victim; "and to tell you the 'truth,'"--he hesitated as he brought out
the dreadful tidings,--"I have sometimes thought it not improbable
that he would be my second son-in-law."  The bishop did not whistle:
we believe that they lose the power of doing so on being consecrated;
and that in these days one might as easily meet a corrupt judge as a
whistling bishop; but he looked as though he would have done so, but
for his apron.

What a brother-in-law for the archdeacon! what an alliance for
Barchester close! what a connection for even the episcopal palace!
The bishop, in his simple mind, felt no doubt that John Bold, had he
so much power, would shut up all cathedrals, and probably all parish
churches; distribute all tithes among Methodists, Baptists, and other
savage tribes; utterly annihilate the sacred bench, and make shovel
hats and lawn sleeves as illegal as cowls, sandals, and sackcloth!
Here was a nice man to be initiated into the comfortable arcana of
ecclesiastical snuggeries; one who doubted the integrity of parsons,
and probably disbelieved the Trinity!

Mr Harding saw what an effect his communication had made, and almost
repented the openness of his disclosure; he, however, did what he
could to moderate the grief of his friend and patron.  "I do not say
that there is any engagement between them.  Had there been, Eleanor
would have told me; I know her well enough to be assured that she
would have done so; but I see that they are fond of each other; and
as a man and a father, I have had no objection to urge against their
intimacy."

"But, Mr Harding," said the bishop, "how are you to oppose him, if he
is your son-in-law?"

"I don't mean to oppose him; it is he who opposes me; if anything is
to be done in defence, I suppose Chadwick will do it.  I suppose--"

"Oh, the archdeacon will see to that: were the young man twice his
brother-in-law, the archdeacon will never be deterred from doing what
he feels to be right."

Mr Harding reminded the bishop that the archdeacon and the reformer
were not yet brothers, and very probably never would be; exacted from
him a promise that Eleanor's name should not be mentioned in any
discussion between the father bishop and son archdeacon respecting the
hospital; and then took his departure, leaving his poor old friend
bewildered, amazed, and confounded.


Chapter IV

HIRAM'S BEDESMEN


The parties most interested in the movement which is about to set
Barchester by the ears were not the foremost to discuss the merit
of the question, as is often the case; but when the bishop, the
archdeacon, the warden, the steward, and Messrs Cox and Cummins,
were all busy with the matter, each in his own way, it is not to be
supposed that Hiram's bedesmen themselves were altogether passive
spectators.  Finney, the attorney, had been among them, asking sly
questions, and raising immoderate hopes, creating a party hostile
to the warden, and establishing a corps in the enemy's camp, as he
figuratively calls it to himself.  Poor old men: whoever may be
righted or wronged by this inquiry, they at any rate will assuredly
be only injured: to them it can only be an unmixed evil.  How can
their lot be improved? all their wants are supplied; every comfort is
administered; they have warm houses, good clothes, plentiful diet,
and rest after a life of labour; and above all, that treasure so
inestimable in declining years, a true and kind friend to listen to
their sorrows, watch over their sickness, and administer comfort as
regards this world, and the world to come!

John Bold sometimes thinks of this, when he is talking loudly of the
rights of the bedesmen, whom he has taken under his protection; but he
quiets the suggestion within his breast with the high-sounding name
of justice: "_Fiat justitia, ruat coelum_."  These old men should,
by rights, have one hundred pounds a year instead of one shilling
and sixpence a day, and the warden should have two hundred or three
hundred pounds instead of eight hundred pounds.  What is unjust must
be wrong; what is wrong should be righted; and if he declined the
task, who else would do it?

"Each one of you is clearly entitled to one hundred pounds a year by
common law": such had been the important whisper made by Finney into
the ears of Abel Handy, and by him retailed to his eleven brethren.

Too much must not be expected from the flesh and blood even of John
Hiram's bedesmen, and the positive promise of one hundred a year to
each of the twelve old men had its way with most of them.  The great
Bunce was not to be wiled away, and was upheld in his orthodoxy by
two adherents.  Abel Handy, who was the leader of the aspirants after
wealth, had, alas, a stronger following.  No less than five of the
twelve soon believed that his views were just, making with their
leader a moiety of the hospital.  The other three, volatile unstable
minds, vacillated between the two chieftains, now led away by the hope
of gold, now anxious to propitiate the powers that still existed.

It had been proposed to address a petition to the bishop as visitor,
praying his lordship to see justice done to the legal recipients of
John Hiram's Charity, and to send copies of this petition and of the
reply it would elicit to all the leading London papers, and thereby
to obtain notoriety for the subject.  This it was thought would pave
the way for ulterior legal proceedings.  It would have been a great
thing to have had the signatures and marks of all the twelve injured
legatees; but this was impossible: Bunce would have cut his hand off
sooner than have signed it.  It was then suggested by Finney that
if even eleven could be induced to sanction the document, the one
obstinate recusant might have been represented as unfit to judge on
such a question,--in fact, as being _non compos mentis_,--and the
petition would have been taken as representing the feeling of the men.
But this could not be done: Bunce's friends were as firm as himself,
and as yet only six crosses adorned the document.  It was the more
provoking, as Bunce himself could write his name legibly, and one of
those three doubting souls had for years boasted of like power, and
possessed, indeed, a Bible, in which he was proud to show his name
written by himself some thirty years ago--"Job Skulpit;" but it was
thought that Job Skulpit, having forgotten his scholarship, on that
account recoiled from the petition, and that the other doubters would
follow as he led them.  A petition signed by half the hospital would
have but a poor effect.

It was in Skulpit's room that the petition was now lying, waiting such
additional signatures as Abel Handy, by his eloquence, could obtain
for it.  The six marks it bore were duly attested, thus:


         his            his             his
     Abel X Handy, Gregy X Moody, Mathew X Spriggs,
         mark           mark            mark


&c., and places were duly designated in pencil for those brethren who
were now expected to join: for Skulpit alone was left a spot on which
his genuine signature might be written in fair clerk-like style.
Handy had brought in the document, and spread it out on the small deal
table, and was now standing by it persuasive and eager.  Moody had
followed with an inkhorn, carefully left behind by Finney; and Spriggs
bore aloft, as though it were a sword, a well-worn ink-black pen,
which from time to time he endeavoured to thrust into Skulpit's
unwilling hand.

With the learned man were his two abettors in indecision, William Gazy
and Jonathan Crumple.  If ever the petition were to be forwarded, now
was the time,--so said Mr Finney; and great was the anxiety on the
part of those whose one hundred pounds a year, as they believed,
mainly depended on the document in question.

"To be kept out of all that money," as the avaricious Moody had
muttered to his friend Handy, "by an old fool saying that he can
write his own name like his betters!"

"Well, Job," said Handy, trying to impart to his own sour,
ill-omened visage a smile of approbation, in which he greatly
failed; "so you're ready now, Mr Finney says; here's the
place, d'ye see;"--and he put his huge brown finger down on
the dirty paper;--"name or mark, it's all one.  Come along,
old boy; if so be we're to have the spending of this money,
why the sooner the better,--that's my maxim."

"To be sure," said Moody.  "We a'n't none of us so young; we can't
stay waiting for old Catgut no longer."

It was thus these miscreants named our excellent friend.  The nickname
he could easily have forgiven, but the allusion to the divine source
of all his melodious joy would have irritated even him.  Let us hope
he never knew the insult.

"Only think, old Billy Gazy," said Spriggs, who rejoiced in greater
youth than his brethren, but having fallen into a fire when drunk, had
had one eye burnt out, one cheek burnt through, and one arm nearly
burnt off, and who, therefore, in regard to personal appearance, was
not the most prepossessing of men, "a hundred a year, and all to
spend; only think, old Billy Gazy;" and he gave a hideous grin that
showed off his misfortunes to their full extent.

Old Billy Gazy was not alive to much enthusiasm.  Even these golden
prospects did not arouse him to do more than rub his poor old bleared
eyes with the cuff of his bedesman's gown, and gently mutter: "he
didn't know, not he; he didn't know."

Hillard.

CCLXXIX.

THE MILITARY CAPACITY OF THE PEOPLE.

We have cause for gratitude in the military capacity which our
people have developed.

We had no great standing armies. We had but a single thoroughly
furnished military school. There was no military profession proper,
inviting young men on the threshold of life to choose the trade of
arms.

A soldier's garb was a rare spectacle, and every child ran to the
window to gaze at the passing glitter.

Whence should come our fighting men if the bugle should blow? You must
have men before you have soldiers. Our institutions raised men.
Proverbially the Yankee can turn his hand to anything.

He likes to do well what he undertakes. He has a pride in showing himself
equal to his position. Above all, he has force of personal
character. When a Northern regiment makes a charge, it is not merely
the weight of so much physical humanity; there goes weight of character
with it.

Why, there is an accomplished schoolmaster there, and the best blacksmith
of the village, and a solid merchant, and a dexterous lawyer, and
the handiest coachman of the stable, and a well known stage-driver
on a prominent public route, and a butcher with an unerring cleaver,
and a jolly tar whose vessel never missed stays with his hand at
the wheel; do you suppose that these men are going to charge like
so many nameless Hessians?

Why, it is a personal matter with every one of them. They go in under
orders, to be sure, but they have not lost the sense of individual
responsibility. The thing is to be well done because they are
there. I know it, my friends, the personal character of our recruits
lends weight and irresistibleness to them as soldiers.

There have been no braver men, no stouter soldiers, in all war's red
annals, than these armed clerks, farmers, college boys, and their
comrades of every peaceful calling. Each community keeps the name of
some young hero, nobler than Spartan mothers ever welcomed on his
shield.

Redder blood never stained the earth, than those full libations our
new mustered ranks have poured out for union, law, and liberty. There
has been no fighting in the bloody past of human story, where
muzzle to muzzle and steel to steel, bold hearts have more truly
played the man, than in those battles of two years past in which
our citizen armies have saved our nationality.

Never have the hardships of the camp, the march, the field, and the
trenches, and the merciless privations of imprisonment been more
heroically endured. It was not needed--and our President said it
well--to consecrate the sacred acres of Gettysburg; that was already
done by the deep baptism that had laved those hills, and not that
field only, but all the sands and sods and waves our boys' brave
blood have crimsoned.

No land beneath the blue heavens was ever kept by stouter living bulwarks;
no mourners ever had a nobler heritage than those that mourn our
soldier-dead.

Come,
I say, Skulpit, are you a going to put your mark to this here paper,
or are you not?"

Skulpit looked round in wretched indecision to his two friends.  "What
d'ye think, Bill Gazy?" said he.

But Bill Gazy couldn't think.  He made a noise like the bleating of an
old sheep, which was intended to express the agony of his doubt, and
again muttered that "he didn't know."

"Take hold, you old cripple," said Handy, thrusting the pen into poor
Billy's hand: "there, so--ugh! you old fool, you've been and smeared
it all,--there,--that'll do for you;--that's as good as the best
name as ever was written": and a big blotch of ink was presumed to
represent Billy Gazy's acquiescence.

"Now, Jonathan," said Handy, turning to Crumple.

"A hundred a year's a nice thing, for sartain," again argued Crumple.
"Well, neighbour Skulpit, how's it to be?"

"Oh, please yourself," said Skulpit: "please yourself, and you'll
please me."

The pen was thrust into Crumple's hand, and a faint, wandering,
meaningless sign was made, betokening such sanction and authority as
Jonathan Crumple was able to convey.

"Come, Job," said Handy, softened by success, "don't let 'em have to
say that old Bunce has a man like you under his thumb,--a man that
always holds his head in the hospital as high as Bunce himself, though
you're never axed to drink wine, and sneak, and tell lies about your
betters as he does."

Skulpit held the pen, and made little flourishes with it in the air,
but still hesitated.

"And if you'll be said by me," continued Handy, "you'll not write your
name to it at all, but just put your mark like the others;"--the cloud
began to clear from Skulpit's brow;--"we all know you can do it if you
like, but maybe you wouldn't like to seem uppish, you know."

"Well, the mark would be best," said Skulpit.  "One name and the rest
marks wouldn't look well, would it?"

"The worst in the world," said Handy; "there--there": and stooping
over the petition, the learned clerk made a huge cross on the place
left for his signature.

"That's the game," said Handy, triumphantly pocketing the petition;
"we're all in a boat now, that is, the nine of us; and as for old
Bunce, and his cronies, they may--"  But as he was hobbling off to the
door, with a crutch on one side and a stick on the other, he was met
by Bunce himself.

"Well Handy, and what may old Bunce do?" said the gray-haired, upright
senior.

Handy muttered something, and was departing; but he was stopped in the
doorway by the huge frame of the newcomer.

"You've been doing no good here, Abel Handy," said he, "'tis plain to
see that; and 'tisn't much good, I'm thinking, you ever do."

"I mind my own business, Master Bunce," muttered the other, "and do
you do the same.  It ain't nothing to you what I does;--and your
spying and poking here won't do no good nor yet no harm."

"I suppose then, Job," continued Bunce, not noticing his opponent, "if
the truth must out, you've stuck your name to that petition of theirs
at last."

Skulpit looked as though he were about to sink into the ground with
shame.

"What is it to you what he signs?" said Handy.  "I suppose if we all
wants to ax for our own, we needn't ax leave of you first, Mr Bunce,
big a man as you are; and as to your sneaking in here, into Job's room
when he's busy, and where you're not wanted--"

"I've knowed Job Skulpit, man and boy, sixty years," said Bunce,
looking at the man of whom he spoke, "and that's ever since the day
he was born.  I knowed the mother that bore him, when she and I were
little wee things, picking daisies together in the close yonder; and
I've lived under the same roof with him more nor ten years; and after
that I may come into his room without axing leave, and yet no sneaking
neither."

"So you can, Mr Bunce," said Skulpit; "so you can, any hour, day or
night."

"And I'm free also to tell him my mind," continued Bunce, looking at
the one man and addressing the other; "and I tell him now that he's
done a foolish and a wrong thing.  He's turned his back upon one
who is his best friend; and is playing the game of others, who care
nothing for him, whether he be poor or rich, well or ill, alive or
dead.  A hundred a year?  Are the lot of you soft enough to think that
if a hundred a year be to be given, it's the likes of you that will
get it?"--and he pointed to Billy Gazy, Spriggs, and Crumple.  "Did
any of us ever do anything worth half the money?  Was it to make
gentlemen of us we were brought in here, when all the world turned
against us, and we couldn't longer earn our daily bread?  A'n't you
all as rich in your ways as he in his?"--and the orator pointed to
the side on which the warden lived.  "A'n't you getting all you hoped
for, ay, and more than you hoped for?  Wouldn't each of you have given
the dearest limb of his body to secure that which now makes you so
unthankful?"

"We wants what John Hiram left us," said Handy.  "We wants what's ourn
by law; it don't matter what we expected.  What's ourn by law should
be ourn, and by goles we'll have it."

"Law!" said Bunce, with all the scorn he knew how to command--"law!
Did ye ever know a poor man yet was the better for law, or for a
lawyer?  Will Mr Finney ever be as good to you, Job, as that man has
been?  Will he see to you when you're sick, and comfort you when
you're wretched? Will he--"

"No, nor give you port wine, old boy, on cold winter nights! he won't
do that, will he?" asked Handy; and laughing at the severity of his
own wit, he and his colleagues retired, carrying with them, however,
the now powerful petition.

There is no help for spilt milk; and Mr Bunce could only retire to
his own room, disgusted at the frailty of human nature.  Job Skulpit
scratched his head;--Jonathan Crumple again remarked, that, "for
sartain, sure a hundred a year was very nice;"--and Billy Gazy again
rubbed his eyes, and lowly muttered that "he didn't know."


Chapter V

DR GRANTLY VISITS THE HOSPITAL


Though doubt and hesitation disturbed the rest of our poor warden, no
such weakness perplexed the nobler breast of his son-in-law.  As the
indomitable cock preparing for the combat sharpens his spurs, shakes
his feathers, and erects his comb, so did the archdeacon arrange his
weapons for the coming war, without misgiving and without fear.  That
he was fully confident of the justice of his cause let no one doubt.
Many a man can fight his battle with good courage, but with a doubting
conscience.  Such was not the case with Dr Grantly.  He did not
believe in the Gospel with more assurance than he did in the sacred
justice of all ecclesiastical revenues.  When he put his shoulder to
the wheel to defend the income of the present and future precentors
of Barchester, he was animated by as strong a sense of a holy cause,
as that which gives courage to a missionary in Africa, or enables a
sister of mercy to give up the pleasures of the world for the wards
of a hospital.  He was about to defend the holy of holies from the
touch of the profane; to guard the citadel of his church from the
most rampant of its enemies; to put on his good armour in the best of
fights, and secure, if possible, the comforts of his creed for coming
generations of ecclesiastical dignitaries.  Such a work required no
ordinary vigour; and the archdeacon was, therefore, extraordinarily
vigorous.  It demanded a buoyant courage, and a heart happy in its
toil; and the archdeacon's heart was happy, and his courage was
buoyant.

He knew that he would not be able to animate his father-in-law
with feelings like his own, but this did not much disturb him.  He
preferred to bear the brunt of the battle alone, and did not doubt
that the warden would resign himself into his hands with passive
submission.

"Well, Mr Chadwick," he said, walking into the steward's office a day
or two after the signing of the petition as commemorated in the last
chapter: "anything from Cox and Cummins this morning?"  Mr Chadwick
handed him a letter; which he read, stroking the tight-gaitered calf
of his right leg as he did so.  Messrs Cox and Cummins merely said
that they had as yet received no notice from their adversaries;
that they could recommend no preliminary steps; but that should any
proceeding really be taken by the bedesmen, it would be expedient to
consult that very eminent Queen's Counsel, Sir Abraham Haphazard.

"I quite agree with them," said Dr Grantly, refolding the letter.
"I perfectly agree with them.  Haphazard is no doubt the best man; a
thorough churchman, a sound conservative, and in every respect the
best man we could get;--he's in the House, too, which is a great
thing."

Mr Chadwick quite agreed.

"You remember how completely he put down that scoundrel Horseman about
the Bishop of Beverley's income; how completely he set them all adrift
in the earl's case."  Since the question of St Cross had been mooted
by the public, one noble lord had become "the earl," _par excellence_,
in the doctor's estimation.  "How he silenced that fellow at
Rochester.  Of course we must have Haphazard; and I'll tell you what,
Mr Chadwick, we must take care to be in time, or the other party will
forestall us."

With all his admiration for Sir Abraham, the doctor seemed to think
it not impossible that that great man might be induced to lend his
gigantic powers to the side of the church's enemies.

Having settled this point to his satisfaction, the doctor stepped down
to the hospital, to learn how matters were going on there; and as he
walked across the hallowed close, and looked up at the ravens who
cawed with a peculiar reverence as he wended his way, he thought with
increased acerbity of those whose impiety would venture to disturb the
goodly grace of cathedral institutions.

And who has not felt the same?  The Member for Sark says, "In Our
Garden it is the unexpected that happens.") Turned out to be a post-card.
Our gardener is very careful to keep up our new character. If the
missive had been brought to us in the house, of course it would have
been served up on a plate. In the garden it is appropriately handed
about on a pitch-fork.

"My dear TOBY" (this is the post-card), "I'm just going up to
Edinburgh; another Midlothian Campaign; You have been with me every
time; don't desert me now; have something quite new and original to
say on the Irish Question; would like you to hear it. Perhaps you
never heard of Mitchelstown? Been looking up particulars. Mean to
tell the whole story.

Will be nice and fresh; come quite a shock on BALFOUR. Don't fail;
Yours ever, W.E.G."
Didn't fail, and here I am, not in Our Garden, but in Edinburgh. Left
the Member for Sark in charge. A little uneasy; never know from
day to day what his well-meant but ill-directed energy may not
achieve.
At least the celery will be safe. One day, after I had worn myself out
with watching gardener dig trench, Sark came along, and in our
absence filled it up. Said it looked untidy to have long hole like
that in respectable garden. Supposed we had been laying a drain;
quite surprised we weren't pleased, when he gleefully announced he
had filled it up.
Just come back from great meeting in Corn Exchange. Difficult to
realise that it's eleven years since Mr. G. here in first campaign.
A great deal happened in meantime, but enthusiasm just the same.The archdeacon, with all his virtues, was not a man of delicate
feeling; and after having made his morning salutations in the warden's
drawing-room, he did not scruple to commence an attack on "pestilent"
John Bold in the presence of Miss Harding, though he rightly guessed
that that lady was not indifferent to the name of his enemy.

"Nelly, my dear, fetch me my spectacles from the back room," said her
father, anxious to save both her blushes and her feelings.

Eleanor brought the spectacles, while her father was trying, in
ambiguous phrases, to explain to her too-practical brother-in-law that
it might be as well not to say anything about Bold before her, and
then retreated.  Nothing had been explained to her about Bold and the
hospital; but, with a woman's instinct she knew that things were going
wrong.

"We must soon be doing something," commenced the archdeacon, wiping
his brows with a large, bright-coloured handkerchief, for he had felt
busy, and had walked quick, and it was a broiling summer's day.  "Of
course you have heard of the petition?"

Mr Harding owned, somewhat unwillingly, that he had heard of it.

"Well!"--the archdeacon looked for some expressions of opinion, but
none coming, he continued,--"We must be doing something, you know; we
mustn't allow these people to cut the ground from under us while we
sit looking on."  The archdeacon, who was a practical man, allowed
himself the use of everyday expressive modes of speech when among his
closest intimates, though no one could soar into a more intricate
labyrinth of refined phraseology when the church was the subject, and
his lower brethren were his auditors.

The warden still looked mutely in his face, making the slightest
possible passes with an imaginary fiddle bow, and stopping, as he
did so, sundry imaginary strings with the fingers of his other hand.
'Twas his constant consolation in conversational troubles.  While
these vexed him sorely, the passes would be short and slow, and the
upper hand would not be seen to work; nay, the strings on which it
operated would sometimes lie concealed in the musician's pocket, and
the instrument on which he played would be beneath his chair;--but as
his spirit warmed to the subject,--as his trusting heart looking to
the bottom of that which vexed him, would see its clear way out,--he
would rise to a higher melody, sweep the unseen strings with a bolder
hand, and swiftly fingering the cords from his neck, down along his
waistcoat, and up again to his very ear, create an ecstatic strain of
perfect music, audible to himself and to St Cecilia, and not without
effect.

"I quite agree with Cox and Cummins," continued the archdeacon.
"They say we must secure Sir Abraham Haphazard.  I shall not have
the slightest fear in leaving the case in Sir Abraham's hands."

The warden played the slowest and saddest of tunes.  It was but a
dirge on one string.

"I think Sir Abraham will not be long in letting Master Bold know what
he's about.  I fancy I hear Sir Abraham cross-questioning him at the
Common Pleas."

The warden thought of his income being thus discussed, his modest
life, his daily habits, and his easy work; and nothing issued from
that single cord, but a low wail of sorrow.  "I suppose they've sent
this petition up to my father."  The warden didn't know; he imagined
they would do so this very day.

"What I can't understand is, how you let them do it, with such a
command as you have in the place, or should have with such a man as
Bunce.  I cannot understand why you let them do it."

"Do what?" asked the warden.

"Why, listen to this fellow Bold, and that other low pettifogger,
Finney;--and get up this petition too.  Why didn't you tell Bunce to
destroy the petition?"

"That would have been hardly wise," said the warden.

"Wise;--yes, it would have been very wise if they'd done it among
themselves.  I must go up to the palace and answer it now, I suppose.
It's a very short answer they'll get, I can tell you."

"But why shouldn't they petition, doctor?"

"Why shouldn't they!" responded the archdeacon, in a loud brazen
voice, as though all the men in the hospital were expected to hear him
through the walls; "why shouldn't they?  I'll let them know why they
shouldn't; by the bye, warden, I'd like to say a few words to them all
together."

The warden's mind misgave him, and even for a moment he forgot to
play.  He by no means wished to delegate to his son-in-law his place
and authority of warden; he had expressly determined not to interfere
in any step which the men might wish to take in the matter under
dispute; he was most anxious neither to accuse them nor to defend
himself.  All these things he was aware the archdeacon would do in his
behalf, and that not in the mildest manner; and yet he knew not how to
refuse the permission requested.

"I'd so much sooner remain quiet in the matter," said he, in an
apologetic voice.

"Quiet!" said the archdeacon, still speaking with his brazen trumpet;
"do you wish to be ruined in quiet?"

"Why, if I am to be ruined, certainly."

"Nonsense, warden; I tell you something must be done;--we must act;
just let me ring the bell, and send the men word that I'll speak to
them in the quad."

Mr Harding knew not how to resist, and the disagreeable order was
given.  The quad, as it was familiarly called, was a small quadrangle,
open on one side to the river, and surrounded on the others by the
high wall of Mr Harding's garden, by one gable end of Mr Harding's
house, and by the end of the row of buildings which formed the
residences of the bedesmen.  It was flagged all round, and the centre
was stoned; small stone gutters ran from the four corners of the
square to a grating in the centre; and attached to the end of Mr
Harding's house was a conduit with four cocks covered over from the
weather, at which the old men got their water, and very generally
performed their morning toilet.  It was a quiet, sombre place, shaded
over by the trees of the warden's garden.  On the side towards the
river, there stood a row of stone seats, on which the old men would
sit and gaze at the little fish, as they flitted by in the running
stream.  On the other side of the river was a rich, green meadow,
running up to and joining the deanery, and as little open to the
public as the garden of the dean itself.  Nothing, therefore, could be
more private than the quad of the hospital; and it was there that the
archdeacon determined to convey to them his sense of their refractory
proceedings.

The servant soon brought in word that the men were assembled in the
quad, and the archdeacon, big with his purpose, rose to address them.

"Well, warden, of course you're coming," said he, seeing that Mr
Harding did not prepare to follow him.

"I wish you'd excuse me," said Mr Harding.

"For heaven's sake, don't let us have division in the camp," replied
the archdeacon: "let us have a long pull and a strong pull, but above
all a pull all together; come, warden, come; don't be afraid of your
duty."

Mr Harding was afraid; he was afraid that he was being led to do that
which was not his duty; he was not, however, strong enough to resist,
so he got up and followed his son-in-law.

The old men were assembled in groups in the quadrangle--eleven of them
at least, for poor old Johnny Bell was bed-ridden, and couldn't come;
he had, however, put his mark to the petition, as one of Handy's
earliest followers.  'Tis true he could not move from the bed where
he lay; 'tis true he had no friend on earth, but those whom the
hospital contained; and of those the warden and his daughter were
the most constant and most appreciated; 'tis true that everything was
administered to him which his failing body could require, or which his
faint appetite could enjoy; but still his dull eye had glistened for a
moment at the idea of possessing a hundred pounds a year "to his own
cheek," as Abel Handy had eloquently expressed it; and poor old Johnny
Bell had greedily put his mark to the petition.

When the two clergymen appeared, they all uncovered their heads.
Handy was slow to do it, and hesitated; but the black coat and
waistcoat of which he had spoken so irreverently in Skulpit's room,
had its effect even on him, and he too doffed his hat.  Bunce,
advancing before the others, bowed lowly to the archdeacon, and with
affectionate reverence expressed his wish, that the warden and Miss
Eleanor were quite well; "and the doctor's lady," he added, turning
to the archdeacon, "and the children at Plumstead, and my lord;" and
having made his speech, he also retired among the others, and took
his place with the rest upon the stone benches.

As the archdeacon stood up to make his speech, erect in the middle of
that little square, he looked like an ecclesiastical statue placed
there, as a fitting impersonation of the church militant here on
earth; his shovel hat, large, new, and well-pronounced, a churchman's
hat in every inch, declared the profession as plainly as does the
Quaker's broad brim; his heavy eyebrows, large open eyes, and full
mouth and chin expressed the solidity of his order; the broad chest,
amply covered with fine cloth, told how well to do was its estate; one
hand ensconced within his pocket, evinced the practical hold which our
mother church keeps on her temporal possessions; and the other, loose
for action, was ready to fight if need be in her defence; and, below
these, the decorous breeches, and neat black gaiters showing so
admirably that well-turned leg, betokened the decency, the outward
beauty and grace of our church establishment.

"Now, my men," he began, when he had settled himself well in his
position, "I want to say a few words to you.  Your good friend, the
warden here, and myself, and my lord the bishop, on whose behalf I
wish to speak to you, would all be very sorry, very sorry indeed,
that you should have any just ground of complaint.  Any just ground
of complaint on your part would be removed at once by the warden, or
by his lordship, or by me on his behalf, without the necessity of
any petition on your part."  Here the orator stopped for a moment,
expecting that some little murmurs of applause would show that
the weakest of the men were beginning to give way; but no such
murmurs came.  Bunce, himself, even sat with closed lips, mute and
unsatisfactory.  "Without the necessity of any petition at all," he
repeated.  "I'm told you have addressed a petition to my lord."  He
paused for a reply from the men, and after a while, Handy plucked up
courage and said, "Yes, we has."

"You have addressed a petition to my lord, in which, as I am informed,
you express an opinion that you do not receive from Hiram's estate all
that is your due."  Here most of the men expressed their assent.  "Now
what is it you ask for?  What is it you want that you hav'n't got
here?  What is it--"

"A hundred a year," muttered old Moody, with a voice as if it came out
of the ground.

"A hundred a year!" ejaculated the archdeacon militant, defying the
impudence of these claimants with one hand stretched out and closed,
while with the other he tightly grasped, and secured within his
breeches pocket, that symbol of the church's wealth which his own
loose half-crowns not unaptly represented.  "A hundred a year!
Why, my men, you must be mad; and you talk about John Hiram's will!
When John Hiram built a hospital for worn-out old men, worn-out old
labouring men, infirm old men past their work, cripples, blind,
bed-ridden, and such like, do you think he meant to make gentlemen of
them?  Do you think John Hiram intended to give a hundred a year to
old single men, who earned perhaps two shillings or half-a-crown a day
for themselves and families in the best of their time?  No, my men,
I'll tell you what John Hiram meant: he meant that twelve poor old
worn-out labourers, men who could no longer support themselves, who
had no friends to support them, who must starve and perish miserably
if not protected by the hand of charity;--he meant that twelve such
men as these should come in here in their poverty and wretchedness,
and find within these walls shelter and food before their death, and a
little leisure to make their peace with God.  That was what John Hiram
meant: you have not read John Hiram's will, and I doubt whether those
wicked men who are advising you have done so.  I have; I know what his
will was; and I tell you that that was his will, and that that was his
intention."

Not a sound came from the eleven bedesmen, as they sat listening to
what, according to the archdeacon, was their intended estate.  They
grimly stared upon his burly figure, but did not then express, by word
or sign, the anger and disgust to which such language was sure to give
rise.

"Now let me ask you," he continued: "do you think you are worse off
than John Hiram intended to make you?  Have you not shelter, and food,
and leisure?  Have you not much more?  Have you not every indulgence
which you are capable of enjoying?  Have you not twice better food,
twice a better bed, ten times more money in your pocket than you were
ever able to earn for yourselves before you were lucky enough to get
into this place?  And now you send a petition to the bishop, asking
for a hundred pounds a year!  I tell you what, my friends; you are
deluded, and made fools of by wicked men who are acting for their
own ends.  You will never get a hundred pence a year more than what
you have now: it is very possible that you may get less; it is very
possible that my lord the bishop, and your warden, may make changes--"

"No, no, no," interrupted Mr Harding, who had been listening with
indescribable misery to the tirade of his son-in-law; "no, my friends.
I want no changes,--at least no changes that shall make you worse off
than you now are, as long as you and I live together."

"God bless you, Mr Harding," said Bunce; and "God bless you, Mr
Harding, God bless you, sir: we know you was always our friend," was
exclaimed by enough of the men to make it appear that the sentiment
was general.

The archdeacon had been interrupted in his speech before he had quite
finished it; but he felt that he could not recommence with dignity
after this little ebullition, and he led the way back into the garden,
followed by his father-in-law.

"Well," said he, as soon as he found himself within the cool retreat
of the warden's garden; "I think I spoke to them plainly."  And he
wiped the perspiration from his brow; for making a speech under a
broiling mid-day sun in summer, in a full suit of thick black cloth,
is warm work.

"Yes, you were plain enough," replied the warden, in a tone which did
not express approbation.

"And that's everything," said the other, who was clearly well
satisfied with himself; "that's everything: with those sort of people
one must be plain, or one will not be understood.  Now, I think they
did understand me;--I think they knew what I meant."

The warden agreed.  He certainly thought they had understood to the
full what had been said to them.

"They know pretty well what they have to expect from us; they know how
we shall meet any refractory spirit on their part; they know that we
are not afraid of them.  And now I'll just step into Chadwick's, and
tell him what I've done; and then I'll go up to the palace, and answer
this petition of theirs."

The warden's mind was very full,--full nearly to overcharging itself;
and had it done so,--had he allowed himself to speak the thoughts
which were working within him, he would indeed have astonished the
archdeacon by the reprobation he would have expressed as to the
proceeding of which he had been so unwilling a witness.  But different
feelings kept him silent; he was as yet afraid of differing from his
son-in-law;--he was anxious beyond measure to avoid even a semblance
of rupture with any of his order, and was painfully fearful of having
to come to an open quarrel with any person on any subject.  His life
had hitherto been so quiet, so free from strife; his little early
troubles had required nothing but passive fortitude; his subsequent
prosperity had never forced upon him any active cares,--had never
brought him into disagreeable contact with anyone.  He felt that
he would give almost anything,--much more than he knew he ought to
do,--to relieve himself from the storm which he feared was coming.
It was so hard that the pleasant waters of his little stream should be
disturbed and muddied by rough hands; that his quiet paths should be
made a battlefield; that the unobtrusive corner of the world which had
been allotted to him, as though by Providence, should be invaded and
desecrated, and all within it made miserable and unsound.

Money he had none to give; the knack of putting guineas together
had never belonged to him; but how willingly, with what a foolish
easiness, with what happy alacrity, would he have abandoned the half
of his income for all time to come, could he by so doing have quietly
dispelled the clouds that were gathering over him,--could he have thus
compromised the matter between the reformer and the conservative,
between his possible son-in-law, Bold, and his positive son-in-law,
the archdeacon.

And this compromise would not have been made from any prudential
motive of saving what would yet remain, for Mr Harding still felt
little doubt but he should be left for life in quiet possession of the
good things he had, if he chose to retain them.  No; he would have
done so from the sheer love of quiet, and from a horror of being made
the subject of public talk.  He had very often been moved to pity.--to
that inward weeping of the heart for others' woes; but none had he
ever pitied more than that old lord, whose almost fabulous wealth,
drawn from his church preferments, had become the subject of so much
opprobrium, of such public scorn; that wretched clerical octogenarian
Croesus, whom men would not allow to die in peace,--whom all the world
united to decry and to abhor.

Would you see the image of true glory, I would show you villages where
the crown and glory of the people was in Christian schools, where
the voice of prayer goes heaven-ward, where the people have that
most priceless gift--faith in God. With this as the basis, and
leavened as it will be with brotherly love, there will be no danger
in grappling with any evils which exist in our midst; we shall
feel that we may work and bide our time, and die knowing that God
will bring victory.
Bishop Whipple.

CCCIX.

OUR NATIONAL ANNIVERSARY.

We celebrate to-day no idle tradition--the deeds of no fabulous race;
for we tread in the scarcely obliterated footsteps of an earnest and
valiant generation of men, who dared to stake life, and fortune,
and sacred honor, upon a declaration of rights, whose promulgation
shook tyrants on their thrones, gave hope to fainting freedom, and
reformed the political ethics of the world.

The greatest heroes of former days have sought renown in schemes
of conquest, based on the love of dominion or the thirst for war;
and such had been the worship of power in the minds of men, that
adulation had ever followed in the wake of victory.

How daring then the trial of an issue between a handful of oppressed
and outlawed colonists, basing their cause, under God, upon an
appeal to the justice of mankind and their own few valiant arms.

And how immeasurably great was he, the fearless commander, who,
after the fortunes and triumphs of battle were over, scorned the thought
of a regal throne for a home in the hearts of his countryman.
Amidst the rejoicings of this day, let us mingle something of gratitude
with our joy--something of reverence with our gratitude--and something
of duty with our reverence.

Let us cultivate personal independence in the spirit of loyalty to
the State. and may God grant that we may always be able to maintain
the sovereignty of the State in the spirit of integrity to the Union.
Thus shall still be shed imperishable honors upon the American name
thus perpetuated, through all coming time, the heritage which has
been bequeathed to us by our fathers.

Whatever shall be the fate of other governments, ours thus sustained,
shall stand forever. As has been elsewhere said, nation after nation
may rise and fall, kingdoms and empires crumble into ruin, but our
own native land, gathering energy and strength from the lapse of time,
shall go on and still go on its destined way to greatness and renown.
And when thrones shall crumble into dust, when sceptres and diadems
shall have been forgotten, till Heaven's last thunder shall shake
the world below, the flag of the republic shall still wave on, and
its Stars, its Stripes, and its Eagle, shall still float in pride,
and strength, and glory,
"Whilst the earth bears, a plant, Or the sea rolls a wave."
A. H. Rice.

CCCX.

SOUTHERN USURPATIONS AND NORTHERN CONCESSIONS.

Why did these Southerners make war upon the country, converting their
own domain into a receptacle of stolen goods, and the hiding-place
of mercenaries, murderers, and madmen, and ours into one vast recruiting
tent?
Tell me, you cowardly and traitorous Northmen, who talk about peace
before the last armed foe has expired on the soil his attainted
blood defiles, or of compromise, while yet the walls of our hospitals
resound with the groans of the mangled, and are damp with the
death-dew of the expiring?

Tell me, you traitors, Davis, Pickens, Stephens, and Floyd? what
do you say provoked you to the point where forbearance ceased to
be a virtue?

What had we of the North usurped that belonged to you? I inquire not
now of what some among us may have said.

I challenge any act of usurpation by the non-slaveholding States against
your rights as members of the confederacy.
Facts are incontrovertible.

What had we done? What provision of the Federal Constitution had we
violated? For once lay aside your declamation and abuse, and
soberly and truthfully state your grievances.

You know, and we know, and the world knows, that we made no encroachment
upon your reserved rights as a party to the compact between your
fathers and ours.

You know, also, that we have been so terrified at your reiterated
threats against the family peace and general welfare, that, in our
anxiety to preserve national concord, we have sacrificed personal
honor and State pride.

You called us "mudsills" and "greasy mechanics," until labor almost
began to be ashamed of its God-given dignity.

You beat our representatives in the national council chambers,
because they expressed the views of those whom they served.

You denied us freedom of speech in all your borders. This and much
else, before the last burden, which broke our uncomplaining patience
into active, and, as you are destined to learn, terrible resistance
and deserved retribution.

But what had we done? How sinned against you? In 1820 you wanted
a geographical limit assigned to your peculiar institution and
we passed the law known as the Missouri Compromise. You got sick
of this when it appeared that slavery would not be a gainer thereby,
as it was supposed, and begged a repeal of the act.

It was repealed. In 1850, you clamored for further legislation
in favor of your property in human beings, and the fugitive slave
law was placed on the nation's statute book.

You continually cried, "Give, give!" and we gave.
But nothing would satisfy your rapacity; you had resolved to quarrel
with us. Do you remind me that we did not return your escaped slaves?
This is only half the truth. Whenever you came after your chattel,
with legal proofs of ownership, we caught and caged him, and sent
him back to you, often at our own expense.

If you did not think it worth your while to hunt up your runaway,
it was none of our concern.

Sometimes a man among us, more of a humanitarian than a jurisconsult,
and better versed in the law of nature than the law of the land,
illegally, but conscientiously, aided your bondman to escape. John
Brown did so, and you hanged him for it! But no State, as such, and
no authority within a State, ever hesitated or refused to fulfil
its constitutional obligations to you on this head.

But you did not mean to be satisfied.

You meant to rebel. You have rebelled, and you must abide the
consequences.
R. Busteed.

CCCXI.

MONUMENTAL HONORS TO PUBLIC BENEFACTORS.

What parent, as he conducts his son to Mount Auburn or to Bunker Hill,
will not, as he pauses before their monumental statues, seek to heighten
his reverence for virtue, for patriotism, for science, for learning,
for devotion to the public good, as he bids him contemplate the form
of that grave and venerable Winthrop, who left his pleasant home in
England to come and found a new republic in this untrodden wilderness;
of that ardent and intrepid Otis, who first struck out the spark
of American independence; of that noble Adams, its most eloquent
champion on the floor of Congress; of that martyr Warren, who laid
down his life in its defense; of that self-taught Bowditch, who,
without a guide, threaded the starry mazes of the heavens; of that
Story, honored at home and abroad as one of the brightest luminaries
of the law, and, by a felicity of which I believe there is no other
example, admirably portrayed in marble by his son?

What citizen of Boston, as he accompanies the stranger around
our streets, guiding him through our busy thoroughfares, to our
wharves, crowded with vessels which range every sea and gather the
produce of every climate, up to the dome of this capitol, which
commands as lovely a landscape as can delight the eye or gladden
the heart, will not, as he calls his attention at last to the statues
of Franklin and Webster, exclaim:--"Boston takes pride in her natural
position, she rejoices in her beautiful environs, she is grateful
for her material prosperity; but richer than the merchandise stored
in palatial warehouses, greener than the slopes of sea-girt islets,
lovelier than this encircling panorama of land and sea, of field
and hamlet, of lake and stream, of garden and grove, is the memory
of her sons, native and adopted; the character, services and fame
of those who have benefited and adorned their day and generation.

Our children, and the schools at which they are trained, our
citizens, and the services they have rendered:--these are our
monuments, these are our jewels, these our abiding treasures."
E. Everett.

CCCXII.

THE CRIME OF THE REBELLION.

                              I call the war
                              which the
   Confederates are waging against the Union a "Rebellion," because
it is one, and in grave matters it is best to call things by their
right names.

   I speak of it as a crime, because the Constitution of the United
States so regards it, and puts "rebellion" on a par with "invasion."

The Constitution and law not only of England, but of every civilized
country regard them in the same light; or rather they consider the
rebel in arms as far worse than the alien enemy.

To levy war against the United States is the constitutional definition
of treason, and that crime is, by every civilized government:
regarded as the highest which citizen or subject can commit.

Not content with the sanctions of human justice, of all the crimes
against the law of the land it is singled out for the denunciations
of religion.

The litanies of every church in Christendom, as far as I am aware,
from the metropolitan cathedrals of Europe to the humblest missionary
chapel in the islands of the sea, concur with the Church of England
in imploring the Sovereign of the universe, by the most awful
adjurations which the heart of man can conceive or his tongue utter,
to deliver us from "sedition, privy conspiracy and rebellion."

And reason good,--for while a rebellion against tyranny; a rebellion
designed, after prostrating arbitrary power, to establish free government
on the basis of justice and truth, is an enterprise on which good
men and angels may look with complacency; an unprovoked rebellion
of ambitious men against a beneficent government, for the purpose--the
avowed purpose-of establishing, extending, and perpetuating any
form of injustice and wrong, is an imitation on earth of that first
foul revolt of "the Infernal serpent," against which the Supreme
Majesty of Heaven sent forth the armed myriads of his angels, and
clothed the right arm of his Son with the three-bolted thunders of
Omnipotence.

Lord Bacon, "in the true marshalling of the sovereign degrees of
honor," assigns the first place to "the Conditores Imperiorum,
founders of States and Commonwealths "; and truly to build up from
the discordant elements of our nature; the passions, the interests,
and the opinions of the individual man; the rivalries of family,
clan, and tribe; the influences of climate and geographical position;
the accidents of peace and war accumulated for ages, to build up,
from these oftentimes warring elements, a well-compacted, prosperous
and powerful State, if it were to be accomplished by one effort,
or in one generation, would require a more than mortal skill.

To contribute in some notable degree to this the greatest work of man,
by wise and patriotic counsel in peace, and loyal heroism in war,
is as high as human merit can well rise, and far more than to any of
those to whom Bacon assigns this highest place of honor, whose names
can hardly be repeated without a wondering smile,--Romulus; Cyrus,
Cæsar, Ottoman, Israel,--is it due to our Washington, as the founder
of the American Union.

But if to achieve or help to achieve this greatest work of man's wisdom
and virtue gives title to a place among the chief benefactors,
rightful heirs of the benedictions, of mankind, by equal reason
shall the bold bad men who seek to undo the noble work,--Eversores
Imperiorum, destroyers of States,--who for base and selfish ends
rebel against beneficent governments, seek to overturn wise
constitutions, to lay powerful republican unions at the foot of
foreign thrones, bring on civil and foreign war, anarchy at home,
dictation abroad, desolation, ruin,--by equal reason, I say, yes a
thousand fold stronger, shall they inherit the execrations of ages.

E. Everett.

CCCXIII.

A TRIBUTE TO OUR HONORED DEAD.

How bright are the honors which await those who with sacred fortitude
and patriotic patience have endured all things that they might save
their native land from division and from the power of corruption. The
honored dead! They that die for a good cause are redeemed from
death. Their names are gathered and garnered. Their memory is precious.
Each place grows proud for them who were born there.

There is to be, ere long, in every village, and in every neighborhood,
a glowing pride in its martyred heroes. Tablets shall preserve their
names. Pious love shall renew their inscriptions as time and the
unfeeling elements efface them. And the national festivals shall
give multitudes of precious names to the orator's lips. Children
shall grow up under more sacred inspirations, whose elder brothers
dying nobly for their country, left a name that honored and inspired
all who bore it.

Orphan children shall find thousands of fathers and mothers to love and
help those whom dying heroes left as a legacy to the gratitude of the
public.

Oh, tell me not that they are dead--that generous hosts that airy army
of invisible heroes. They hover as a cloud of witnesses above this
nation. Are they dead that yet speak louder than we can speak, and a
more universal language? Are they dead that yet act? Are they
dead that yet move upon society, and inspire the people with nobler
motives and more heroic patriotism?

Ye that mourn, let gladness mingle with your tears. It was your
son: but now he is the nation's. He made your household bright: now
his example inspires a thousand households. Dear to his brothers and
sister's, he is now brother to every generous youth in the
land. Before, he was narrowed, appropriated, shut up to you. Now he
is augmented, set free, and given to all. Before he was yours: he is
ours.

He has died from the family that he might live to the nation. Not
one name shall be forgot ten or neglected:
and it shall by-and-by be confessed of our modern heroes, as it is of
an ancient hero, that he did more for his country by his death
than by his whole life.

Neither are they less honored who shall bear through life the
marks of wounds and sufferings. Neither epaulette nor badge is so
honorable as wounds received in a good cause. Many a man shall envy
him who henceforth limps. So strange is the transforming power of
patriotic ardor, that men shall almost covet disfigurement.

Crowds will give way to hobbling cripples, and uncover in the presence
of feebleness and helplessness. And buoyant children shall pause
in their noisy games, and with loving rererence honor them whose
hands can work no more, and whose feet are no longer able to march
except upon that journey which brings good men to honor and immortality.
Oh, mother of lost children! set not in darkness nor sorrow whom a
nation honors. Oh, mourners of the early dead, they shall live again,
and live forever. Your sorrows are our gladness. The nation lives
because you gave it men that love it better than their own lives.

And when a few more days shall have cleared the perils from
around the nation's brow, and she shall sit in unsullied garments
of liberty, with justice upon her forehead, love in her eyes, and
truth upon her lips, she shall not forget those whose blood gave
vital currents to her heart, and whose life, given to her, shall
live with her life till time shall be no more.

Every mountain and hill shall have its treasured name, every
river shall keep some solemn title, every valley and every lake shall
cherish its honored register; and till the mountains are worn out,
and the rivers forget to flow, till the clouds are weary of replenishing
springs, and the springs forget to gush, and the rills to sing,
shall their names be kept fresh with reverent honors which are
inscribed upon the book of National Remembrance.
H. W.

Beecher.

CCCXIV.

ON THE CONFISCATION BILL.

Few of those engaged in this rebellion will ever be made to suffer in
their persons; and if they are to be left in the full possession
and enjoyment of their cotton, their lands, and their negroes, the
innocent will have been made to suffer while the guilty will go
unpunished. Shall the fathers of the gallant sons whose mangled
bodies have been borne back to Illinois by hundreds, from the bloody
fields of Belmont, of Donelson, and Pea Ridge, be ground down by
onerous taxes, which shall descend upon their children to the third
and fourth generations, to defray the expenses of defending the
Government against traitors, and we forbear to touch even the
property of the authors of these calamities, whose persons are
beyond our reach?

Suppose ye that the loyal people of this country will submit to such
injustice?

I believe I represent as loyal, as patriotic and as brave a constituency
as any other Senator. I claim nothing more. While I am proud of the
part which the soldiers of my own State took in defeating the enemy
in the West, I do not claim for them any superiority over the other
soldiers of the Republic.
The brave men who besieged Donelson, and who, after fighting through
the day for three consecutive days, lay each night on the ground without
shelter, exposed to the rain and sleet, were chiefly Illinoisans.
It was there that rebellion received the heavy blow which has
staggered it ever since. Forty dead bodies were borne from that
bloody field to one small town in my State, and buried in a
common grave. The Union forces at Pea Ridge were also largely
made up of soldiers from Illinois. Suppose ye that I can go back
to Illinois, among the relatives of those who have been cruelly
destroyed, and propose to levy taxes upon them in order to conciliate
and compensate the murderers, for that is really what exempting
rebel property from confiscation amounts to? Sir, I know not if
they would submit to such injustice; and yet there are those who not
only talk of an amnesty to the men who have brought these troubles
upon the country, but oppose providing the mild punishment of
confiscation of property for those who shall continue hereafter
to war upon the Government, and whose persons are beyond our reach.

Do gentlemen regard it as conciliatory to oblige us to lay taxes
upon those whose habitations have been consumed, to reward those who
have burned them? upon those whose whole property has been stolen,
to reward the thieves? upon those whose relatives have been slain, to
compensate the murderers?

In my judgment, justice, humanity, and mercy herself all demand
that we at once provide that the supporters of this cruel and wicked
rebellion should henceforth be made to feel its burdens.

When the rebels, whose hands are dripping with the blood of loyal citizens,
shall have grounded their arms, it will be time enough to talk of
clemency; but to have our sympathies excited in their behalf now,
when fighting to overthrow the Government, is cruelty to the loyal
men who have rallied to its support.

L. Trumbull.

CCCXV.

THE CRITTENDEN COMPROMISE.

Sir, what are the remedies that are proposed for the present condition
of things, and what have they been from the beginning? They have been
propositions of compromise; and Senators have spoken of peace, and of
the horrors of civil war; and gentlemen who have contended for the
right of the people of the Territories to regulate their own
affairs, and who have been horrified at the idea of a geographical
line dividing free States from slave States, free territory from slave
territory,--and we have proclaimed that the great principle upon which
the Revolution was fought was that of the right of the people to
govern themselves, and that it was a monstrous doctrine for Congress
to interfere in any way with its own Territories--these gentlemen come
forward here with propositions to divide the country on a geographical
line; and not only that, but to establish slavery south of the line;
and they call this the Missouri Compromise!

She
had been sick at heart to think that a man of whom she could not but
own to herself that she loved him, of whose regard she had been so
proud, that such a man should turn against her father to ruin him.
She had felt her vanity hurt, that his affection for her had not kept
him from such a course; had he really cared for her, he would not have
risked her love by such an outrage.  But her main fear had been for
her father, and when she spoke of danger, it was of danger to him and
not to herself.

She was taken aback by the question altogether: "Do I like him, papa?"

"Yes, Nelly, do you like him?  Why shouldn't you like him? but that's
a poor word;--do you love him?"  She sat still in his arms without
answering him.  She certainly had not prepared herself for an avowal
of affection, intending, as she had done, to abuse John Bold herself,
and to hear her father do so also.  "Come, my love," said he, "let us
make a clean breast of it: do you tell me what concerns yourself, and
I will tell you what concerns me and the hospital."

And then, without waiting for an answer, he described to her, as he
best could, the accusation that was made about Hiram's will; the
claims which the old men put forward; what he considered the strength
and what the weakness of his own position; the course which Bold had
taken, and that which he presumed he was about to take; and then
by degrees, without further question, he presumed on the fact of
Eleanor's love, and spoke of that love as a feeling which he could in
no way disapprove: he apologised for Bold, excused what he was doing;
nay, praised him for his energy and intentions; made much of his good
qualities, and harped on none of his foibles; then, reminding his
daughter how late it was, and comforting her with much assurance which
he hardly felt himself, he sent her to her room, with flowing eyes and
a full heart.

When Mr Harding met his daughter at breakfast the next morning, there
was no further discussion on the matter, nor was the subject mentioned
between them for some days.  Soon after the party Mary Bold called at
the hospital, but there were various persons in the drawing-room at
the time, and she therefore said nothing about her brother.  On the
day following, John Bold met Miss Harding in one of the quiet, sombre,
shaded walks of the close.  He was most anxious to see her, but
unwilling to call at the warden's house, and had in truth waylaid her
in her private haunts.

"My sister tells me," said he, abruptly hurrying on with his
premeditated speech, "my sister tells me that you had a delightful
party the other evening.  I was so sorry I could not be there."

"We were all sorry," said Eleanor, with dignified composure.

"I believe, Miss Harding, you understand why, at this moment--"  And
Bold hesitated, muttered, stopped, commenced his explanation again,
and again broke down.

Eleanor would not help him in the least.

"I think my sister explained to you, Miss Harding?"

"Pray don't apologise, Mr Bold; my father will, I am sure, always be
glad to see you, if you like to come to the house now as formerly;
nothing has occurred to alter his feelings: of your own views you are,
of course, the best judge."

"Your father is all that is kind and generous; he always was so; but
you, Miss Harding, yourself--I hope you will not judge me harshly,
because--"

"Mr Bold," said she, "you may be sure of one thing; I shall always
judge my father to be right, and those who oppose him I shall judge
to be wrong.  If those who do not know him oppose him, I shall have
charity enough to believe that they are wrong, through error of
judgment; but should I see him attacked by those who ought to know
him, and to love him, and revere him, of such I shall be constrained
to form a different opinion."  And then curtseying low she sailed on,
leaving her lover in anything but a happy state of mind.


Chapter VII

_THE JUPITER_


Though Eleanor Harding rode off from John Bold on a high horse, it
must not be supposed that her heart was so elate as her demeanour.
In the first place, she had a natural repugnance to losing her
lover; and in the next, she was not quite so sure that she was in
the right as she pretended to be.  Her father had told her, and that
now repeatedly, that Bold was doing nothing unjust or ungenerous;
and why then should she rebuke him, and throw him off, when she felt
herself so ill able to bear his loss?--but such is human nature, and
young-lady-nature especially.

As she walked off from him beneath the shady elms of the close, her
look, her tone, every motion and gesture of her body, belied her
heart; she would have given the world to have taken him by the hand,
to have reasoned with him, persuaded him, cajoled him, coaxed him out
of his project; to have overcome him with all her female artillery,
and to have redeemed her father at the cost of herself; but pride
would not let her do this, and she left him without a look of love or
a word of kindness.

Had Bold been judging of another lover and of another lady, he might
have understood all this as well as we do; but in matters of love men
do not see clearly in their own affairs.  They say that faint heart
never won fair lady; and it is amazing to me how fair ladies are
won, so faint are often men's hearts!  Were it not for the kindness
of their nature, that seeing the weakness of our courage they will
occasionally descend from their impregnable fortresses, and themselves
aid us in effecting their own defeat, too often would they escape
unconquered if not unscathed, and free of body if not of heart.

Poor Bold crept off quite crestfallen; he felt that as regarded
Eleanor Harding his fate was sealed, unless he could consent to give
up a task to which he had pledged himself, and which indeed it would
not be easy for him to give up.  Lawyers were engaged, and the
question had to a certain extent been taken up by the public; besides,
how could a high-spirited girl like Eleanor Harding really learn to
love a man for neglecting a duty which he assumed!  Could she allow
her affection to be purchased at the cost of his own self-respect?

As regarded the issue of his attempt at reformation in the hospital,
Bold had no reason hitherto to be discontented with his success.
All Barchester was by the ears about it.  The bishop, the archdeacon,
the warden, the steward, and several other clerical allies, had daily
meetings, discussing their tactics, and preparing for the great
attack.  Sir Abraham Haphazard had been consulted, but his opinion was
not yet received: copies of Hiram's will, copies of wardens' journals,
copies of leases, copies of accounts, copies of everything that could
be copied, and of some that could not, had been sent to him; and the
case was assuming most creditable dimensions.  But, above all, it had
been mentioned in the daily _Jupiter_.  That all-powerful organ of
the press in one of its leading thunderbolts launched at St Cross, had
thus remarked: "Another case, of smaller dimensions indeed, but of
similar import, is now likely to come under public notice.  We are
informed that the warden or master of an old almshouse attached to
Barchester Cathedral is in receipt of twenty-five times the annual
income appointed for him by the will of the founder, while the sum
yearly expended on the absolute purposes of the charity has always
remained fixed.  In other words, the legatees under the founder's
will have received no advantage from the increase in the value of the
property during the last four centuries, such increase having been
absorbed by the so-called warden.  It is impossible to conceive a
case of greater injustice.  It is no answer to say that some six or
nine or twelve old men receive as much of the goods of this world
as such old men require.  On what foundation, moral or divine,
traditional or legal, is grounded the warden's claim to the large
income he receives for doing nothing?  The contentment of these
almsmen, if content they be, can give him no title to this wealth!
Does he ever ask himself, when he stretches wide his clerical palm to
receive the pay of some dozen of the working clergy, for what service
he is so remunerated?  Does his conscience ever entertain the question
of his right to such subsidies?  Or is it possible that the subject
never so presents itself to his mind; that he has received for many
years, and intends, should God spare him, to receive for years to come
these fruits of the industrious piety of past ages, indifferent as to
any right on his own part, or of any injustice to others!  We must
express an opinion that nowhere but in the Church of England, and only
there among its priests, could such a state of moral indifference be
found."

I must for the present leave my readers to imagine the state of Mr
Harding's mind after reading the above article.  They say that forty
thousand copies of _The Jupiter_ are daily sold, and that each copy is
read by five persons at the least.  Two hundred thousand readers then
would hear this accusation against him; two hundred thousand hearts
would swell with indignation at the griping injustice, the barefaced
robbery of the warden of Barchester Hospital!  And how was he to
answer this?  How was he to open his inmost heart to this multitude,
to these thousands, the educated, the polished, the picked men of his
own country; how show them that he was no robber, no avaricious, lazy
priest scrambling for gold, but a retiring, humble-spirited man, who
had innocently taken what had innocently been offered to him?

"Write to _The Jupiter_," suggested the bishop.

"Yes," said the archdeacon, more worldly wise than his father, "yes,
and be smothered with ridicule; tossed over and over again with
scorn; shaken this way and that, as a rat in the mouth of a practised
terrier.  You will leave out some word or letter in your answer, and
the ignorance of the cathedral clergy will be harped upon; you will
make some small mistake, which will be a falsehood, or some admission,
which will be self-condemnation; you will find yourself to have been
vulgar, ill-tempered, irreverend, and illiterate, and the chances are
ten to one, but that being a clergyman, you will have been guilty of
blasphemy!  A man may have the best of causes, the best of talents,
and the best of tempers; he may write as well as Addison, or as
strongly as Junius; but even with all this he cannot successfully
answer, when attacked by _The Jupiter_.  In such matters it is
omnipotent.  What the Czar is in Russia, or the mob in America, that
_The Jupiter_ is in England.  Answer such an article!  No, warden;
whatever you do, don't do that.  We were to look for this sort of
thing, you know; but we need not draw down on our heads more of it
than is necessary."

The article in _The Jupiter_, while it so greatly harassed our poor
warden, was an immense triumph to some of the opposite party.  Sorry
as Bold was to see Mr Harding attacked so personally, it still gave
him a feeling of elation to find his cause taken up by so powerful
an advocate: and as to Finney, the attorney, he was beside himself.
What! to be engaged in the same cause and on the same side with
_The Jupiter_; to have the views he had recommended seconded, and
furthered, and battled for by _The Jupiter_!  Perhaps to have his own
name mentioned as that of the learned gentleman whose efforts had
been so successful on behalf of the poor of Barchester!  He might be
examined before committees of the House of Commons, with heaven knows
how much a day for his personal expenses;--he might be engaged for
years on such a suit!  There was no end to the glorious golden dreams
which this leader in _The Jupiter_ produced in the soaring mind of
Finney.

And the old bedesmen, they also heard of this article, and had a
glimmering, indistinct idea of the marvellous advocate which had now
taken up their cause.  Abel Handy limped hither and thither through
the rooms, repeating all that he understood to have been printed,
with some additions of his own which he thought should have been
added.  He told them how _The Jupiter_ had declared that their warden
was no better than a robber, and that what _The Jupiter_ said was
acknowledged by the world to be true.  How _The Jupiter_ had affirmed
that each one of them--"each one of us, Jonathan Crumple, think of
that!"--had a clear right to a hundred a year; and that if _The
Jupiter_ had said so, it was better than a decision of the Lord
Chancellor: and then he carried about the paper, supplied by Mr
Finney, which, though none of them could read it, still afforded in
its very touch and aspect positive corroboration of what was told
them; and Jonathan Crumple pondered deeply over his returning wealth;
and Job Skulpit saw how right he had been in signing the petition, and
said so many scores of times; and Spriggs leered fearfully with his
one eye; and Moody, as he more nearly approached the coming golden
age, hated more deeply than ever those who still kept possession of
what he so coveted.  Even Billy Gazy and poor bed-ridden Bell became
active and uneasy, and the great Bunce stood apart with lowering brow,
with deep grief seated in his heart, for he perceived that evil days
were coming.

It had been decided, the archdeacon advising, that no remonstrance,
explanation, or defence should be addressed from the Barchester
conclave to the editor of _The Jupiter_; but hitherto that was the
only decision to which they had come.

Sir Abraham Haphazard was deeply engaged in preparing a bill for the
mortification of papists, to be called the "Convent Custody Bill,"
the purport of which was to enable any Protestant clergyman over
fifty years of age to search any nun whom he suspected of being in
possession of treasonable papers or Jesuitical symbols; and as there
were to be a hundred and thirty-seven clauses in the bill, each clause
containing a separate thorn for the side of the papist, and as it
was known the bill would be fought inch by inch, by fifty maddened
Irishmen, the due construction and adequate dovetailing of it did
consume much of Sir Abraham's time.  The bill had all its desired
effect.  Of course it never passed into law; but it so completely
divided the ranks of the Irish members, who had bound themselves
together to force on the ministry a bill for compelling all men to
drink Irish whiskey, and all women to wear Irish poplins, that for
the remainder of the session the Great Poplin and Whiskey League was
utterly harmless.

Thus it happened that Sir Abraham's opinion was not at once
forthcoming, and the uncertainty, the expectation, and suffering of
the folk of Barchester was maintained at a high pitch.


Chapter VIII

PLUMSTEAD EPISCOPI


The reader must now be requested to visit the rectory of Plumstead
Episcopi; and as it is as yet still early morning, to ascend again
with us into the bedroom of the archdeacon.  The mistress of the
mansion was at her toilet; on which we will not dwell with profane
eyes, but proceed into a small inner room, where the doctor dressed
and kept his boots and sermons; and here we will take our stand,
premising that the door of the room was so open as to admit of a
conversation between our reverend Adam and his valued Eve.

"It's all your own fault, archdeacon," said the latter.  "I told you
from the beginning how it would end, and papa has no one to thank but
you."

"Good gracious, my dear," said the doctor, appearing at the door of
his dressing-room, with his face and head enveloped in the rough towel
which he was violently using; "how can you say so?  I am doing my very
best."

"I wish you had never done so much," said the lady, interrupting him.
"If you'd just have let John Bold come and go there, as he and papa
liked, he and Eleanor would have been married by this time, and we
should not have heard one word about all this affair."

"But, my dear--"

"Oh, it's all very well, archdeacon; and of course you're right; I
don't for a moment think you'll ever admit that you could be wrong;
but the fact is, you've brought this young man down upon papa by
huffing him as you have done."

"But, my love--"

"And all because you didn't like John Bold for a brother-in-law.
How is she ever to do better?  Papa hasn't got a shilling; and though
Eleanor is well enough, she has not at all a taking style of beauty.
I'm sure I don't know how she's to do better than marry John Bold; or
as well indeed," added the anxious sister, giving the last twist to
her last shoe-string.

Dr Grantly felt keenly the injustice of this attack; but what could he
say?  He certainly had huffed John Bold; he certainly had objected to
him as a brother-in-law, and a very few months ago the very idea had
excited his wrath: but now matters were changed; John Bold had shown
his power, and, though he was as odious as ever to the archdeacon,
power is always respected, and the reverend dignitary began to think
that such an alliance might not have been imprudent.  Nevertheless,
his motto was still "no surrender;" he would still fight it out;
he believed confidently in Oxford, in the bench of bishops, in Sir
Abraham Haphazard, and in himself; and it was only when alone with
his wife that doubts of defeat ever beset him.  He once more tried to
communicate this confidence to Mrs Grantly, and for the twentieth time
began to tell her of Sir Abraham.

"Oh, Sir Abraham!" said she, collecting all her house keys into her
basket before she descended; "Sir Abraham won't get Eleanor a husband;
Sir Abraham won't get papa another income when he has been worreted
out of the hospital.  Mark what I tell you, archdeacon: while you and
Sir Abraham are fighting, papa will lose his preferment; and what will
you do then with him and Eleanor on your hands? besides, who's to pay
Sir Abraham?  I suppose he won't take the case up for nothing?"  And
so the lady descended to family worship among her children and
servants, the pattern of a good and prudent wife.

Dr Grantly was blessed with a happy, thriving family.  There were,
first, three boys, now at home from school for the holidays.  They
were called, respectively, Charles James, Henry, and Samuel.  The two
younger (there were five in all) were girls; the elder, Florinda, bore
the name of the Archbishop of York's wife, whose godchild she was:
and the younger had been christened Grizzel, after a sister of the
Archbishop of Canterbury.  The boys were all clever, and gave good
promise of being well able to meet the cares and trials of the world;
and yet they were not alike in their dispositions, and each had his
individual character, and each his separate admirers among the
doctor's friends.

Charles James was an exact and careful boy; he never committed
himself; he well knew how much was expected from the eldest son of the
Archdeacon of Barchester, and was therefore mindful not to mix too
freely with other boys.  He had not the great talents of his younger
brothers, but he exceeded them in judgment and propriety of demeanour;
his fault, if he had one, was an over-attention to words instead of
things; there was a thought too much finesse about him, and, as even
his father sometimes told him, he was too fond of a compromise.

The second was the archdeacon's favourite son, and Henry was indeed a
brilliant boy.  The versatility of his genius was surprising, and the
visitors at Plumstead Episcopi were often amazed at the marvellous
manner in which he would, when called on, adapt his capacity to
apparently most uncongenial pursuits.  He appeared once before a large
circle as Luther the reformer, and delighted them with the perfect
manner in which he assumed the character; and within three days he
again astonished them by acting the part of a Capuchin friar to the
very life.  For this last exploit his father gave him a golden guinea,
and his brothers said the reward had been promised beforehand in the
event of the performance being successful.  He was also sent on a tour
into Devonshire; a treat which the lad was most anxious of enjoying.
His father's friends there, however, did not appreciate his talents,
and sad accounts were sent home of the perversity of his nature.  He
was a most courageous lad, game to the backbone.

It was soon known, both at home, where he lived, and within some miles
of Barchester Cathedral, and also at Westminster, where he was at
school, that young Henry could box well and would never own himself
beat; other boys would fight while they had a leg to stand on, but he
would fight with no leg at all.  Those backing him would sometimes
think him crushed by the weight of blows and faint with loss of blood,
and his friends would endeavour to withdraw him from the contest; but
no, Henry never gave in, was never weary of the battle.  The ring was
the only element in which he seemed to enjoy himself; and while other
boys were happy in the number of their friends, he rejoiced most in
the multitude of his foes.

His relations could not but admire his pluck, but they sometimes were
forced to regret that he was inclined to be a bully; and those not
so partial to him as his father was, observed with pain that, though
he could fawn to the masters and the archdeacon's friends, he was
imperious and masterful to the servants and the poor.

But perhaps Samuel was the general favourite; and dear little Soapy,
as he was familiarly called, was as engaging a child as ever fond
mother petted.  He was soft and gentle in his manners, and attractive
in his speech; the tone of his voice was melody, and every action was
a grace; unlike his brothers, he was courteous to all, he was affable
to the lowly, and meek even to the very scullery-maid.  He was a boy
of great promise, minding his books and delighting the hearts of his
masters.  His brothers, however, were not particularly fond of him;
they would complain to their mother that Soapy's civility all meant
something; they thought that his voice was too often listened to at
Plumstead Episcopi, and evidently feared that, as he grew up, he
would have more weight in the house than either of them; there was,
therefore, a sort of agreement among them to put young Soapy down.
This, however, was not so easy to be done; Samuel, though young, was
sharp; he could not assume the stiff decorum of Charles James, nor
could he fight like Henry; but he was a perfect master of his own
weapons, and contrived, in the teeth of both of them, to hold the
place which he had assumed.  Henry declared that he was a false,
cunning creature; and Charles James, though he always spoke of him as
his dear brother Samuel, was not slow to say a word against him when
opportunity offered.  To speak the truth, Samuel was a cunning boy,
and those even who loved him best could not but own that for one so
young, he was too adroit in choosing his words, and too skilled in
modulating his voice.

The two little girls Florinda and Grizzel were nice little girls
enough, but they did not possess the strong sterling qualities of
their brothers; their voices were not often heard at Plumstead
Episcopi; they were bashful and timid by nature, slow to speak before
company even when asked to do so; and though they looked very nice in
their clean white muslin frocks and pink sashes, they were but little
noticed by the archdeacon's visitors.

Whatever of submissive humility may have appeared in the gait and
visage of the archdeacon during his colloquy with his wife in the
sanctum of their dressing-rooms was dispelled as he entered his
breakfast-parlour with erect head and powerful step.  In the presence
of a third person he assumed the lord and master; and that wise and
talented lady too well knew the man to whom her lot for life was
bound, to stretch her authority beyond the point at which it would be
borne.  Strangers at Plumstead Episcopi, when they saw the imperious
brow with which he commanded silence from the large circle of
visitors, children, and servants who came together in the morning to
hear him read the word of God, and watched how meekly that wife seated
herself behind her basket of keys with a little girl on each side,
as she caught that commanding glance; strangers, I say, seeing this,
could little guess that some fifteen minutes since she had stoutly
held her ground against him, hardly allowing him to open his mouth in
his own defence. But such is the tact and talent of women!

And now let us observe the well-furnished breakfast-parlour at
Plumstead Episcopi, and the comfortable air of all the belongings of
the rectory.  Comfortable they certainly were, but neither gorgeous
nor even grand; indeed, considering the money that had been spent
there, the eye and taste might have been better served; there was an
air of heaviness about the rooms which might have been avoided without
any sacrifice of propriety; colours might have been better chosen and
lights more perfectly diffused; but perhaps in doing so the thorough
clerical aspect of the whole might have been somewhat marred; at any
rate, it was not without ample consideration that those thick, dark,
costly carpets were put down; those embossed, but sombre papers hung
up; those heavy curtains draped so as to half exclude the light of
the sun: nor were these old-fashioned chairs, bought at a price far
exceeding that now given for more modern goods, without a purpose.
The breakfast-service on the table was equally costly and equally
plain; the apparent object had been to spend money without obtaining
brilliancy or splendour.  The urn was of thick and solid silver, as
were also the tea-pot, coffee-pot, cream-ewer, and sugar-bowl; the
cups were old, dim dragon china, worth about a pound a piece, but very
despicable in the eyes of the uninitiated.  The silver forks were so
heavy as to be disagreeable to the hand, and the bread-basket was of a
weight really formidable to any but robust persons.  The tea consumed
was the very best, the coffee the very blackest, the cream the
very thickest; there was dry toast and buttered toast, muffins and
crumpets; hot bread and cold bread, white bread and brown bread,
home-made bread and bakers' bread, wheaten bread and oaten bread; and
if there be other breads than these, they were there; there were eggs
in napkins, and crispy bits of bacon under silver covers; and there
were little fishes in a little box, and devilled kidneys frizzling on
a hot-water dish; which, by the bye, were placed closely contiguous to
the plate of the worthy archdeacon himself.  Over and above this, on
a snow-white napkin, spread upon the sideboard, was a huge ham and a
huge sirloin; the latter having laden the dinner table on the previous
evening.  Such was the ordinary fare at Plumstead Episcopi.

And yet I have never found the rectory a pleasant house.  The
fact that man shall not live by bread alone seemed to be somewhat
forgotten; and noble as was the appearance of the host, and sweet and
good-natured as was the face of the hostess, talented as were the
children, and excellent as were the viands and the wines, in spite
of these attractions, I generally found the rectory somewhat dull.
After breakfast the archdeacon would retire, of course to his clerical
pursuits.  Mrs Grantly, I presume, inspected her kitchen, though she
had a first-rate housekeeper, with sixty pounds a year; and attended
to the lessons of Florinda and Grizzel, though she had an excellent
governess with thirty pounds a year: but at any rate she disappeared:
and I never could make companions of the boys.  Charles James, though
he always looked as though there was something in him, never seemed to
have much to say; and what he did say he would always unsay the next
minute.  He told me once that he considered cricket, on the whole, to
be a gentleman-like game for boys, provided they would play without
running about; and that fives, also, was a seemly game, so that those
who played it never heated themselves.  Henry once quarrelled with me
for taking his sister Grizzel's part in a contest between them as to
the best mode of using a watering-pot for the garden flowers; and from
that day to this he has not spoken to me, though he speaks at me often
enough.  For half an hour or so I certainly did like Sammy's gentle
speeches; but one gets tired of honey, and I found that he preferred
the more admiring listeners whom he met in the kitchen-garden and back
precincts of the establishment; besides, I think I once caught Sammy
fibbing.

On the whole, therefore, I found the rectory a dull house, though it
must be admitted that everything there was of the very best.

After breakfast, on the morning of which we are writing, the
archdeacon, as usual, retired to his study, intimating that he was
going to be very busy, but that he would see Mr Chadwick if he called.
On entering this sacred room he carefully opened the paper case on
which he was wont to compose his favourite sermons, and spread on it
a fair sheet of paper and one partly written on; he then placed his
inkstand, looked at his pen, and folded his blotting paper; having
done so, he got up again from his seat, stood with his back to the
fire-place, and yawned comfortably, stretching out vastly his huge
arms and opening his burly chest.  He then walked across the room and
locked the door; and having so prepared himself, he threw himself into
his easy-chair, took from a secret drawer beneath his table a volume
of Rabelais, and began to amuse himself with the witty mischief of
Panurge; and so passed the archdeacon's morning on that day.

He was left undisturbed at his studies for an hour or two, when a
knock came to the door, and Mr Chadwick was announced.  Rabelais
retired into the secret drawer, the easy-chair seemed knowingly to
betake itself off, and when the archdeacon quickly undid his bolt,
he was discovered by the steward working, as usual, for that church
of which he was so useful a pillar.  Mr Chadwick had just come from
London, and was, therefore, known to be the bearer of important news.

"We've got Sir Abraham's opinion at last," said Mr Chadwick, as he
seated himself.

"Well, well, well!" exclaimed the archdeacon impatiently.

"Oh, it's as long as my arm," said the other; "it can't be told in a
word, but you can read it;" and he handed him a copy, in heaven knows
how many spun-out folios, of the opinion which the attorney-general
had managed to cram on the back and sides of the case as originally
submitted to him.

"The upshot is," said Chadwick, "that there's a screw loose in their
case, and we had better do nothing.  They are proceeding against Mr
Harding and myself, and Sir Abraham holds that, under the wording of
the will, and subsequent arrangements legally sanctioned, Mr Harding
and I are only paid servants.  The defendants should have been either
the Corporation of Barchester, or possibly the chapter of your
father."

"W-hoo!" said the archdeacon; "so Master Bold is on the wrong scent,
is he?"

"That's Sir Abraham's opinion; but any scent almost would be a wrong
scent.  Sir Abraham thinks that if they'd taken the corporation, or
the chapter, we could have baffled them.  The bishop, he thinks, would
be the surest shot; but even there we could plead that the bishop is
only a visitor, and that he has never made himself a consenting party
to the performance of other duties."

"That's quite clear," said the archdeacon.

"Not quite so clear," said the other.  "You see the will says, 'My
lord, the bishop, being graciously pleased to see that due justice
be done.'  Now, it may be a question whether, in accepting and
administering the patronage, your father has not accepted also the
other duties assigned.  It is doubtful, however; but even if they hit
that nail,--and they are far off from that yet,--the point is so nice,
as Sir Abraham says, that you would force them into fifteen thousand
pounds' cost before they could bring it to an issue! and where's that
sum of money to come from?"

The archdeacon rubbed his hands with delight; he had never doubted the
justice of his case, but he had begun to have some dread of unjust
success on the part of his enemies.  It was delightful to him thus to
hear that their cause was surrounded with such rocks and shoals; such
causes of shipwreck unseen by the landsman's eye, but visible enough
to the keen eyes of practical law mariners.  How wrong his wife was to
wish that Bold should marry Eleanor!  Bold! why, if he should be ass
enough to persevere, he would be a beggar before he knew whom he was
at law with!

"That's excellent, Chadwick;--that's excellent!  I told you Sir
Abraham was the man for us;" and he put down on the table the copy of
the opinion, and patted it fondly.

"Don't you let that be seen, though, archdeacon."

"Who?--I!--not for worlds," said the doctor.

"People will talk, you know, archdeacon."

"Of course, of course," said the doctor.

"Because, if that gets abroad, it would teach them how to fight their
own battle."

"Quite true," said the doctor.

"No one here in Barchester ought to see that but you and I,
archdeacon."

"No, no, certainly no one else," said the archdeacon, pleased with the
closeness of the confidence; "no one else shall."

"Mrs Grantly is very interested in the matter, I know," said Mr
Chadwick.

Did the archdeacon wink, or did he not?  I am inclined to think he did
not quite wink; but that without such, perhaps, unseemly gesture he
communicated to Mr Chadwick, with the corner of his eye, intimation
that, deep as was Mrs Grantly's interest in the matter, it should not
procure for her a perusal of that document; and at the same time he
partly opened the small drawer, above spoken of, deposited the paper
on the volume of Rabelais, and showed to Mr Chadwick the nature of the
key which guarded these hidden treasures.  The careful steward then
expressed himself contented.  Ah! vain man! he could fasten up his
Rabelais, and other things secret, with all the skill of Bramah or
of Chubb; but where could he fasten up the key which solved these
mechanical mysteries?  It is probable to us that the contents of
no drawer in that house were unknown to its mistress, and we think,
moreover, that she was entitled to all such knowledge.

"But," said Mr Chadwick, "we must, of course, tell your father and Mr
Harding so much of Sir Abraham's opinion as will satisfy them that the
matter is doing well."

"Oh, certainly,--yes, of course," said the doctor.

"You had better let them know that Sir Abraham is of opinion that
there is no case at any rate against Mr Harding; and that as the
action is worded at present, it must fall to the ground; they must be
nonsuited, if they carry it on; you had better tell Mr Harding, that
Sir Abraham is clearly of opinion that he is only a servant, and as
such not liable;--or if you like it, I'll see Mr Harding myself."

"Oh, I must see him to-morrow, and my father too, and I'll explain to
them exactly so much;--you won't go before lunch, Mr Chadwick: well,
if you will, you must, for I know your time is precious;" and he shook
hands with the diocesan steward, and bowed him out.

The archdeacon had again recourse to his drawer, and twice read
through the essence of Sir Abraham Haphazard's law-enlightened and
law-bewildered brains.  It was very clear that to Sir Abraham, the
justice of the old men's claim or the justice of Mr Harding's defence
were ideas that had never presented themselves.  A legal victory
over an opposing party was the service for which Sir Abraham was, as
he imagined, to be paid; and that he, according to his lights, had
diligently laboured to achieve, and with probable hope of success.
Of the intense desire which Mr Harding felt to be assured on fit
authority that he was wronging no man, that he was entitled in true
equity to his income, that he might sleep at night without pangs of
conscience, that he was no robber, no spoiler of the poor; that he and
all the world might be openly convinced that he was not the man which
_The Jupiter_ had described him to be; of such longings on the part of
Mr Harding, Sir Abraham was entirely ignorant; nor, indeed, could it
be looked on as part of his business to gratify such desires.  Such
was not the system on which his battles were fought, and victories
gained.  Success was his object, and he was generally successful.
He conquered his enemies by their weakness rather than by his own
strength, and it had been found almost impossible to make up a case
in which Sir Abraham, as an antagonist, would not find a flaw.

The archdeacon was delighted with the closeness of the reasoning.  To
do him justice, it was not a selfish triumph that he desired; he would
personally lose nothing by defeat, or at least what he might lose did
not actuate him; but neither was it love of justice which made him so
anxious, nor even mainly solicitude for his father-in-law.  He was
fighting a part of a never-ending battle against a never-conquered
foe--that of the church against its enemies.

He knew Mr Harding could not pay all the expense of these doings: for
these long opinions of Sir Abraham's, these causes to be pleaded,
these speeches to be made, these various courts through which the case
was, he presumed, to be dragged.  He knew that he and his father must
at least bear the heavier portion of this tremendous cost; but to do
the archdeacon justice, he did not recoil from this.  He was a man
fond of obtaining money, greedy of a large income, but open-handed
enough in expending it, and it was a triumph to him to foresee the
success of this measure, although he might be called on to pay so
dearly for it himself.


Chapter IX

THE CONFERENCE


On the following morning the archdeacon was with his father betimes,
and a note was sent down to the warden begging his attendance at the
palace.  Dr Grantly, as he cogitated on the matter, leaning back in
his brougham as he journeyed into Barchester, felt that it would be
difficult to communicate his own satisfaction either to his father or
his father-in-law.  He wanted success on his own side and discomfiture
on that of his enemies.  The bishop wanted peace on the subject; a
settled peace if possible, but peace at any rate till the short
remainder of his own days had spun itself out.  Mr Harding required
not only success and peace, but he also demanded that he might stand
justified before the world.

The bishop, however, was comparatively easy to deal with; and before
the arrival of the other, the dutiful son had persuaded his father
that all was going on well, and then the warden arrived.

It was Mr Harding's wont, whenever he spent a morning at the palace,
to seat himself immediately at the bishop's elbow, the bishop
occupying a huge arm-chair fitted up with candle-sticks, a reading
table, a drawer, and other paraphernalia, the position of which
chair was never moved, summer or winter; and when, as was usual, the
archdeacon was there also, he confronted the two elders, who thus were
enabled to fight the battle against him together;--and together submit
to defeat, for such was their constant fate.

Our warden now took his accustomed place, having greeted his
son-in-law as he entered, and then affectionately inquired after his
friend's health.  There was a gentleness about the bishop to which the
soft womanly affection of Mr Harding particularly endeared itself, and
it was quaint to see how the two mild old priests pressed each other's
hand, and smiled and made little signs of love.

"Sir Abraham's opinion has come at last," began the archdeacon.  Mr
Harding had heard so much, and was most anxious to know the result.

"It is quite favourable," said the bishop, pressing his friend's arm.
"I am so glad."

Mr Harding looked at the mighty bearer of the important news for
confirmation of these glad tidings.

"Yes," said the archdeacon; "Sir Abraham has given most minute
attention to the case; indeed, I knew he would;--most minute
attention; and his opinion is,--and as to his opinion on such a
subject being correct, no one who knows Sir Abraham's character can
doubt,--his opinion is, that they hav'n't got a leg to stand on."

"But as how, archdeacon?"

"Why, in the first place:--but you're no lawyer, warden, and I doubt
you won't understand it; the gist of the matter is this:--under
Hiram's will two paid guardians have been selected for the hospital;
the law will say two paid servants, and you and I won't quarrel with
the name."

"At any rate I will not if I am one of the servants," said Mr Harding.
"A rose, you know--"

"Yes, yes," said the archdeacon, impatient of poetry at such a time.
"Well, two paid servants, we'll say; one to look after the men, and
the other to look after the money.  You and Chadwick are these two
servants, and whether either of you be paid too much, or too little,
more or less in fact than the founder willed, it's as clear as
daylight that no one can fall foul of either of you for receiving an
allotted stipend."

"That does seem clear," said the bishop, who had winced visibly at the
words servants and stipend, which, however, appeared to have caused no
uneasiness to the archdeacon.

"Quite clear," said he, "and very satisfactory.  In point of fact, it
being necessary to select such servants for the use of the hospital,
the pay to be given to them must depend on the rate of pay for such
services, according to their market value at the period in question;
and those who manage the hospital must be the only judges of this."

"And who does manage the hospital?" asked the warden.  "Oh, let them
find that out; that's another question: the action is brought against
you and Chadwick; that's your defence, and a perfect and full defence
it is.  Now that I think very satisfactory."

"Well," said the bishop, looking inquiringly up into his friend's
face, who sat silent awhile, and apparently not so well satisfied.

"And conclusive," continued the archdeacon; "if they press it to a
jury, which they won't do, no twelve men in England will take five
minutes to decide against them."

"But according to that" said Mr Harding, "I might as well have sixteen
hundred a year as eight, if the managers choose to allot it to me; and
as I am one of the managers, if not the chief manager, myself, that
can hardly be a just arrangement."

"Oh, well; all that's nothing to the question.  The question is,
whether this intruding fellow, and a lot of cheating attorneys and
pestilent dissenters, are to interfere with an arrangement which
everyone knows is essentially just and serviceable to the church.
Pray don't let us be splitting hairs, and that amongst ourselves, or
there'll never be an end of the cause or the cost."

Mr Harding again sat silent for a while, during which the bishop once
and again pressed his arm, and looked in his face to see if he could
catch a gleam of a contented and eased mind; but there was no such
gleam, and the poor warden continued playing sad dirges on invisible
stringed instruments in all manner of positions; he was ruminating in
his mind on this opinion of Sir Abraham, looking to it wearily and
earnestly for satisfaction, but finding none.  At last he said, "Did
you see the opinion, archdeacon?"

The archdeacon said he had not,--that was to say, he had,--that was,
he had not seen the opinion itself; he had seen what had been called a
copy, but he could not say whether of a whole or part; nor could he
say that what he had seen were the _ipsissima verba_ of the great man
himself; but what he had seen contained exactly the decision which he
had announced, and which he again declared to be to his mind extremely
satisfactory.

"I should like to see the opinion," said the warden; "that is, a copy
of it."

"Well, I suppose you can if you make a point of it; but I don't see
the use myself; of course it is essential that the purport of it
should not be known, and it is therefore unadvisable to multiply
copies."

"Why should it not be known?" asked the warden.

"What a question for a man to ask!" said the archdeacon, throwing up
his hands in token of his surprise; "but it is like you:--a child is
not more innocent than you are in matters of business.  Can't you see
that if we tell them that no action will lie against you, but that one
may possibly lie against some other person or persons, that we shall
be putting weapons into their hands, and be teaching them how to cut
our own throats?"

The warden again sat silent, and the bishop again looked at him
wistfully.  "The only thing we have now to do," continued the
archdeacon, "is to remain quiet, hold our peace, and let them play
their own game as they please."

"We are not to make known then," said the warden, "that we have
consulted the attorney-general, and that we are advised by him that
the founder's will is fully and fairly carried out."

"God bless my soul!" said the archdeacon, "how odd it is that you will
not see that all we are to do is to do nothing: why should we say
anything about the founder's will?  We are in possession; and we know
that they are not in a position to put us out; surely that is enough
for the present."

Mr Harding rose from his seat and paced thoughtfully up and down the
library, the bishop the while watching him painfully at every turn,
and the archdeacon continuing to pour forth his convictions that the
affair was in a state to satisfy any prudent mind.

"And _The Jupiter_?" said the warden, stopping suddenly.

"Oh! _The Jupiter_," answered the other.  "_The Jupiter_ can break no
bones.  You must bear with that; there is much, of course, which it
is our bounden duty to bear; it cannot be all roses for us here," and
the archdeacon looked exceedingly moral; "besides, the matter is too
trivial, of too little general interest to be mentioned again in _The
Jupiter_, unless we stir up the subject."  And the archdeacon again
looked exceedingly knowing and worldly wise.

The warden continued his walk; the hard and stinging words of that
newspaper article, each one of which had thrust a thorn as it were
into his inmost soul, were fresh in his memory; he had read it more
than once, word by word, and what was worse, he fancied it was as well
known to everyone as to himself.  Was he to be looked on as the unjust
griping priest he had been there described?  Was he to be pointed at
as the consumer of the bread of the poor, and to be allowed no means
of refuting such charges, of clearing his begrimed name, of standing
innocent in the world, as hitherto he had stood?  Was he to bear all
this, to receive as usual his now hated income, and be known as one
of those greedy priests who by their rapacity have brought disgrace
on their church?  And why?  Why should he bear all this?  Why should
he die, for he felt that he could not live, under such a weight of
obloquy?  As he paced up and down the room he resolved in his misery
and enthusiasm that he could with pleasure, if he were allowed, give
up his place, abandon his pleasant home, leave the hospital, and live
poorly, happily, and with an unsullied name, on the small remainder of
his means.

He was a man somewhat shy of speaking of himself, even before those
who knew him best, and whom he loved the most; but at last it burst
forth from him, and with a somewhat jerking eloquence he declared that
he could not, would not, bear this misery any longer.

"If it can be proved," said he at last, "that I have a just and honest
right to this, as God well knows I always deemed I had; if this salary
or stipend be really my due, I am not less anxious than another to
retain it.  I have the well-being of my child to look to.  I am too
old to miss without some pain the comforts to which I have been used;
and I am, as others are, anxious to prove to the world that I have
been right, and to uphold the place I have held; but I cannot do it
at such a cost as this.  I cannot bear this.  Could you tell me to do
so?"  And he appealed, almost in tears, to the bishop, who had left
his chair, and was now leaning on the warden's arm as he stood on the
further side of the table facing the archdeacon.  "Could you tell me
to sit there at ease, indifferent, and satisfied, while such things as
these are said loudly of me in the world?"

The bishop could feel for him and sympathise with him, but he could
not advise him; he could only say, "No, no, you shall be asked to
do nothing that is painful; you shall do just what your heart tells
you to be right; you shall do whatever you think best yourself.
Theophilus, don't advise him, pray don't advise the warden to do
anything which is painful."

But the archdeacon, though he could not sympathise, could advise;
and he saw that the time had come when it behoved him to do so in a
somewhat peremptory manner.

"Why, my lord," he said, speaking to his father;--and when he called
his father "my lord," the good old bishop shook in his shoes, for he
knew that an evil time was coming.  "Why, my lord, there are two ways
of giving advice: there is advice that may be good for the present
day; and there is advice that may be good for days to come: now I
cannot bring myself to give the former, if it be incompatible with the
other."

"No, no, no, I suppose not," said the bishop, re-seating himself, and
shading his face with his hands.  Mr Harding sat down with his back to
the further wall, playing to himself some air fitted for so calamitous
an occasion, and the archdeacon said out his say standing, with his
back to the empty fire-place.

"It is not to be supposed but that much pain will spring out of this
unnecessarily raised question.  We must all have foreseen that, and
the matter has in no wise gone on worse than we expected; but it will
be weak, yes, and wicked also, to abandon the cause and own ourselves
wrong, because the inquiry is painful.  It is not only ourselves we
have to look to; to a certain extent the interest of the church is in
our keeping.  Should it be found that one after another of those who
hold preferment abandoned it whenever it might be attacked, is it
not plain that such attacks would be renewed till nothing was left
us? and, that if so deserted, the Church of England must fall to
the ground altogether?  If this be true of many, it is true of one.
Were you, accused as you now are, to throw up the wardenship, and to
relinquish the preferment which is your property, with the vain object
of proving yourself disinterested, you would fail in that object, you
would inflict a desperate blow on your brother clergymen, you would
encourage every cantankerous dissenter in England to make a similar
charge against some source of clerical revenue, and you would do your
best to dishearten those who are most anxious to defend you and uphold
your position.  I can fancy nothing more weak, or more wrong.  It is
not that you think that there is any justice in these charges, or that
you doubt your own right to the wardenship: you are convinced of your
own honesty, and yet would yield to them through cowardice."

"Cowardice!" said the bishop, expostulating.  Mr Harding sat unmoved,
gazing on his son-in-law.

"Well; would it not be cowardice?  Would he not do so because he is
afraid to endure the evil things which will be falsely spoken of him?
Would that not be cowardice?  And now let us see the extent of the
evil which you dread.  The _Jupiter_ publishes an article which a
great many, no doubt, will read; but of those who understand the
subject how many will believe _The Jupiter_?  Everyone knows what its
object is: it has taken up the case against Lord Guildford and against
the Dean of Rochester, and that against half a dozen bishops; and does
not everyone know that it would take up any case of the kind, right
or wrong, false or true, with known justice or known injustice, if by
doing so it could further its own views?  Does not all the world know
this of _The Jupiter_?  Who that really knows you will think the worse
of you for what _The Jupiter_ says?  And why care for those who do not
know you?  I will say nothing of your own comfort, but I do say that
you could not be justified in throwing up, in a fit of passion, for
such it would be, the only maintenance that Eleanor has; and if you
did so, if you really did vacate the wardenship, and submit to ruin,
what would that profit you?  If you have no future right to the
income, you have had no past right to it; and the very fact of your
abandoning your position would create a demand for repayment of that
which you have already received and spent."

The poor warden groaned as he sat perfectly still, looking up at the
hard-hearted orator who thus tormented him, and the bishop echoed the
sound faintly from behind his hands; but the archdeacon cared little
for such signs of weakness, and completed his exhortation.

"But let us suppose the office to be left vacant, and that your own
troubles concerning it were over; would that satisfy you?  Are your
only aspirations in the matter confined to yourself and family?  I
know they are not.  I know you are as anxious as any of us for the
church to which we belong; and what a grievous blow would such an act
of apostasy give her!  You owe it to the church of which you are a
member and a minister, to bear with this affliction, however severe it
may be: you owe it to my father, who instituted you, to support his
rights: you owe it to those who preceded you to assert the legality
of their position; you owe it to those who are to come after you, to
maintain uninjured for them that which you received uninjured from
others; and you owe to us all the unflinching assistance of perfect
brotherhood in this matter, so that upholding one another we may
support our great cause without blushing and without disgrace."

And so the archdeacon ceased, and stood self-satisfied, watching the
effect of his spoken wisdom.

The warden felt himself, to a certain extent, stifled; he would have
given the world to get himself out into the open air without speaking
to, or noticing those who were in the room with him; but this was
impossible.  He could not leave without saying something, and he felt
himself confounded by the archdeacon's eloquence.  There was a heavy,
unfeeling, unanswerable truth in what he had said; there was so much
practical, but odious common sense in it, that he neither knew how
to assent or to differ.  If it were necessary for him to suffer, he
felt that he could endure without complaint and without cowardice,
providing that he was self-satisfied of the justice of his own cause.
What he could not endure was, that he should be accused by others, and
not acquitted by himself.  Doubting, as he had begun to doubt, the
justice of his own position in the hospital, he knew that his own
self-confidence would not be restored because Mr Bold had been in
error as to some legal form; nor could he be satisfied to escape,
because, through some legal fiction, he who received the greatest
benefit from the hospital might be considered only as one of its
servants.

The archdeacon's speech had silenced him,--stupefied him,--annihilated
him; anything but satisfied him.  With the bishop it fared not much
better.  He did not discern clearly how things were, but he saw enough
to know that a battle was to be prepared for; a battle that would
destroy his few remaining comforts, and bring him with sorrow to the
grave.

The warden still sat, and still looked at the archdeacon, till his
thoughts fixed themselves wholly on the means of escape from his
present position, and he felt like a bird fascinated by gazing on a
snake.

"I hope you agree with me," said the archdeacon at last, breaking the
dread silence; "my lord, I hope you agree with me."

Oh, what a sigh the bishop gave!  "My lord, I hope you agree with me,"
again repeated the merciless tyrant.

"Yes, I suppose so," groaned the poor old man, slowly.

"And you, warden?"

Mr Harding was now stirred to action;--he must speak and move, so he
got up and took one turn before he answered.

"Do not press me for an answer just at present; I will do nothing
lightly in the matter, and of whatever I do I will give you and the
bishop notice."  And so without another word he took his leave,
escaping quickly through the palace hall, and down the lofty steps;
nor did he breathe freely till he found himself alone under the huge
elms of the silent close.  Here he walked long and slowly, thinking
on his case with a troubled air, and trying in vain to confute the
archdeacon's argument.  He then went home, resolved to bear it
all,--ignominy, suspense, disgrace, self-doubt, and heart-burning,--
and to do as those would have him, who he still believed were most fit
and most able to counsel him aright.


Chapter X

TRIBULATION


Mr Harding was a sadder man than he had ever yet been when he returned
to his own house.  He had been wretched enough on that well-remembered
morning when he was forced to expose before his son-in-law the
publisher's account for ushering into the world his dear book
of sacred music: when after making such payments as he could do
unassisted, he found that he was a debtor of more than three hundred
pounds; but his sufferings then were as nothing to his present
misery;--then he had done wrong, and he knew it, and was able to
resolve that he would not sin in like manner again; but now he could
make no resolution, and comfort himself by no promises of firmness.
He had been forced to think that his lot had placed him in a false
position, and he was about to maintain that position against the
opinion of the world and against his own convictions.

He had read with pity, amounting almost to horror, the strictures
which had appeared from time to time against the Earl of Guildford as
master of St Cross, and the invectives that had been heaped on rich
diocesan dignitaries and overgrown sinecure pluralists.  In judging of
them, he judged leniently; the whole bias of his profession had taught
him to think that they were more sinned against than sinning, and
that the animosity with which they had been pursued was venomous
and unjust; but he had not the less regarded their plight as most
miserable.  His hair had stood on end and his flesh had crept as
he read the things which had been written; he had wondered how men
could live under such a load of disgrace; how they could face their
fellow-creatures while their names were bandied about so injuriously
and so publicly;--and now this lot was to be his,--he, that shy,
retiring man, who had so comforted himself in the hidden obscurity of
his lot, who had so enjoyed the unassuming warmth of his own little
corner,--he was now dragged forth into the glaring day, and gibbeted
before ferocious multitudes.  He entered his own house a crestfallen,
humiliated man, without a hope of overcoming the wretchedness which
affected him.

He wandered into the drawing-room where was his daughter; but he could
not speak to her now, so he left it, and went into the book-room.
He was not quick enough to escape Eleanor's glance, or to prevent her
from seeing that he was disturbed; and in a little while she followed
him.  She found him seated in his accustomed chair with no book open
before him, no pen ready in his hand, no ill-shapen notes of blotted
music lying before him as was usual, none of those hospital accounts
with which he was so precise and yet so unmethodical: he was doing
nothing, thinking of nothing, looking at nothing; he was merely
suffering.

"Leave me, Eleanor, my dear," he said; "leave me, my darling, for a
few minutes, for I am busy."

Eleanor saw well how it was, but she did leave him, and glided
silently back to her drawing-room.  When he had sat a while, thus
alone and unoccupied, he got up to walk again;--he could make more
of his thoughts walking than sitting, and was creeping out into his
garden, when he met Bunce on the threshold.

"Well, Bunce," said he, in a tone that for him was sharp, "what is it?
do you want me?"

"I was only coming to ask after your reverence," said the old
bedesman, touching his hat; "and to inquire about the news from
London," he added after a pause.

The warden winced, and put his hand to his forehead and felt
bewildered.

"Attorney Finney has been there this morning," continued Bunce, "and
by his looks I guess he is not so well pleased as he once was, and it
has got abroad somehow that the archdeacon has had down great news
from London, and Handy and Moody are both as black as devils.  And I
hope," said the man, trying to assume a cheery tone, "that things are
looking up, and that there'll be an end soon to all this stuff which
bothers your reverence so sorely."

"Well, I wish there may be, Bunce."

"But about the news, your reverence?" said the old man, almost
whispering.

Mr Harding walked on, and shook his head impatiently.  Poor Bunce
little knew how he was tormenting his patron.

"If there was anything to cheer you, I should be so glad to know it,"
said he, with a tone of affection which the warden in all his misery
could not resist.

He stopped, and took both the old man's hands in his.  "My friend,"
said he, "my dear old friend, there is nothing; there is no news to
cheer me;--God's will be done": and two small hot tears broke away
from his eyes and stole down his furrowed cheeks.

"Then God's will be done," said the other solemnly; "but they told
me that there was good news from London, and I came to wish your
reverence joy; but God's will be done;" and so the warden again walked
on, and the bedesman, looking wistfully after him and receiving no
encouragement to follow, returned sadly to his own abode.

For a couple of hours the warden remained thus in the garden, now
walking, now standing motionless on the turf, and then, as his legs
got weary, sitting unconsciously on the garden seats, and then walking
again.  And Eleanor, hidden behind the muslin curtains of the window,
watched him through the trees as he now came in sight, and then again
was concealed by the turnings of the walk; and thus the time passed
away till five, when the warden crept back to the house and prepared
for dinner.

It was but a sorry meal.  The demure parlour-maid, as she handed the
dishes and changed the plates, saw that all was not right, and was
more demure than ever: neither father nor daughter could eat, and the
hateful food was soon cleared away, and the bottle of port placed upon
the table.

"Would you like Bunce to come in, papa?" said Eleanor, thinking that
the company of the old man might lighten his sorrow.

"No, my dear, thank you, not to-day; but are not you going out,
Eleanor, this lovely afternoon? don't stay in for me, my dear."

"I thought you seemed so sad, papa."

"Sad," said he, irritated; "well, people must all have their share of
sadness here; I am not more exempt than another: but kiss me, dearest,
and go now; I will, if possible, be more sociable when you return."

And Eleanor was again banished from her father's sorrow.  Ah! her
desire now was not to find him happy, but to be allowed to share his
sorrows; not to force him to be sociable, but to persuade him to be
trustful.

She put on her bonnet as desired, and went up to Mary Bold; this was
now her daily haunt, for John Bold was up in London among lawyers and
church reformers, diving deep into other questions than that of the
wardenship of Barchester; supplying information to one member of
Parliament, and dining with another; subscribing to funds for the
abolition of clerical incomes, and seconding at that great national
meeting at the Crown and Anchor a resolution to the effect, that no
clergyman of the Church of England, be he who he might, should have
more than a thousand a year, and none less than two hundred and fifty.
His speech on this occasion was short, for fifteen had to speak, and
the room was hired for two hours only, at the expiration of which
the Quakers and Mr Cobden were to make use of it for an appeal to
the public in aid of the Emperor of Russia; but it was sharp and
effective; at least he was told so by a companion with whom he now
lived much, and on whom he greatly depended,--one Tom Towers, a very
leading genius, and supposed to have high employment on the staff of
_The Jupiter_.

So Eleanor, as was now her wont, went up to Mary Bold, and Mary
listened kindly, while the daughter spoke much of her father, and,
perhaps kinder still, found a listener in Eleanor, while she spoke
about her brother.  In the meantime the warden sat alone, leaning on
the arm of his chair; he had poured out a glass of wine, but had done
so merely from habit, for he left it untouched; there he sat gazing
at the open window, and thinking, if he can be said to have thought,
of the happiness of his past life.  All manner of past delights came
before his mind, which at the time he had enjoyed without considering
them; his easy days, his absence of all kind of hard work, his
pleasant shady home, those twelve old neighbours whose welfare till
now had been the source of so much pleasant care, the excellence
of his children, the friendship of the dear old bishop, the solemn
grandeur of those vaulted aisles, through which he loved to hear his
own voice pealing; and then that friend of friends, that choice ally
that had never deserted him, that eloquent companion that would
always, when asked, discourse such pleasant music, that violoncello
of his;--ah, how happy he had been! but it was over now; his easy
days and absence of work had been the crime which brought on him his
tribulation; his shady home was pleasant no longer; maybe it was no
longer his; the old neighbours, whose welfare had been so desired by
him, were his enemies; his daughter was as wretched as himself; and
even the bishop was made miserable by his position.  He could never
again lift up his voice boldly as he had hitherto done among his
brethren, for he felt that he was disgraced; and he feared even to
touch his bow, for he knew how grievous a sound of wailing, how
piteous a lamentation, it would produce.

He was still sitting in the same chair and the same posture, having
hardly moved a limb for two hours, when Eleanor came back to tea, and
succeeded in bringing him with her into the drawing-room.

The tea seemed as comfortless as the dinner, though the warden, who
had hitherto eaten nothing all day, devoured the plateful of bread and
butter, unconscious of what he was doing.

Eleanor had made up her mind to force him to talk to her, but she
hardly knew how to commence: she must wait till the urn was gone, till
the servant would no longer be coming in and out.

At last everything was gone, and the drawing-room door was permanently
closed; then Eleanor, getting up and going round to her father, put
her arm round his neck, and said, "Papa, won't you tell me what it
is?"

"What what is, my dear?"

"This new sorrow that torments you; I know you are unhappy, papa."

"New sorrow! it's no new sorrow, my dear; we have all our cares
sometimes;" and he tried to smile, but it was a ghastly failure; "but
I shouldn't be so dull a companion; come, we'll have some music."

"No, papa, not tonight,--it would only trouble you tonight;" and she
sat upon his knee, as she sometimes would in their gayest moods, and
with her arm round his neck, she said: "Papa, I will not leave you
till you talk to me; oh, if you only knew how much good it would do
to you, to tell me of it all."

The father kissed his daughter, and pressed her to his heart; but
still he said nothing: it was so hard to him to speak of his own
sorrows; he was so shy a man even with his own child!

"Oh, papa, do tell me what it is; I know it is about the hospital, and
what they are doing up in London, and what that cruel newspaper has
said; but if there be such cause for sorrow, let us be sorrowful
together; we are all in all to each other now: dear, dear papa, do
speak to me."

Mr Harding could not well speak now, for the warm tears were running
down his cheeks like rain in May, but he held his child close to his
heart, and squeezed her hand as a lover might, and she kissed his
forehead and his wet cheeks, and lay upon his bosom, and comforted him
as a woman only can do.

"My own child," he said, as soon as his tears would let him speak, "my
own, own child, why should you too be unhappy before it is necessary?
It may come to that, that we must leave this place, but till that time
comes, why should your young days be clouded?"

"And is that all, papa?  If that be all, let us leave it, and have
light hearts elsewhere: if that be all, let us go.  Oh, papa, you and
I could be happy if we had only bread to eat, so long as our hearts
were light."

And Eleanor's face was lighted up with enthusiasm as she told her
father how he might banish all his care; and a gleam of joy shot
across his brow as this idea of escape again presented itself, and
he again fancied for a moment that he could spurn away from him the
income which the world envied him; that he could give the lie to that
wielder of the tomahawk who had dared to write such things of him in
_The Jupiter_; that he could leave Sir Abraham, and the archdeacon,
and Bold, and the rest of them with their lawsuit among them, and
wipe his hands altogether of so sorrow-stirring a concern.  Ah, what
happiness might there be in the distance, with Eleanor and him in some
small cottage, and nothing left of their former grandeur but their
music!  Yes, they would walk forth with their music books, and their
instruments, and shaking the dust from off their feet as they went,
leave the ungrateful place. Never did a poor clergyman sigh for a warm
benefice more anxiously than our warden did now to be rid of his.

"Give it up, papa," she said again, jumping from his knees and
standing on her feet before him, looking boldly into his face; "give
it up, papa."

Oh, it was sad to see how that momentary gleam of joy passed away;
how the look of hope was dispersed from that sorrowful face, as the
remembrance of the archdeacon came back upon our poor warden, and he
reflected that he could not stir from his now hated post.  He was as
a man bound with iron, fettered with adamant: he was in no respect a
free agent; he had no choice.  "Give it up!"  Oh if he only could:
what an easy way that were out of all his troubles!

"Papa, don't doubt about it," she continued, thinking that his
hesitation arose from his unwillingness to abandon so comfortable
a home; "is it on my account that you would stay here?  Do you
think that I cannot be happy without a pony-carriage and a fine
drawing-room?  Papa, I never can be happy here, as long as there is a
question as to your honour in staying here; but I could be gay as the
day is long in the smallest tiny little cottage, if I could see you
come in and go out with a light heart.  Oh! papa, your face tells so
much; though you won't speak to me with your voice, I know how it is
with you every time I look at you."

How he pressed her to his heart again with almost a spasmodic
pressure!  How he kissed her as the tears fell like rain from his old
eyes!  How he blessed her, and called her by a hundred soft sweet
names which now came new to his lips!  How he chid himself for ever
having been unhappy with such a treasure in his house, such a jewel on
his bosom, with so sweet a flower in the choice garden of his heart!
And then the floodgates of his tongue were loosed, and, at length,
with unsparing detail of circumstances, he told her all that he
wished, and all that he could not do.  He repeated those arguments
of the archdeacon, not agreeing in their truth, but explaining his
inability to escape from them;--how it had been declared to him that
he was bound to remain where he was by the interests of his order,
by gratitude to the bishop, by the wishes of his friends, by a sense
of duty, which, though he could not understand it, he was fain to
acknowledge.  He told her how he had been accused of cowardice, and
though he was not a man to make much of such a charge before the
world, now in the full candour of his heart he explained to her that
such an accusation was grievous to him; that he did think it would be
unmanly to desert his post, merely to escape his present sufferings,
and that, therefore, he must bear as best he might the misery which
was prepared for him.

And did she find these details tedious?  Oh, no; she encouraged him
to dilate on every feeling he expressed, till he laid bare the inmost
corners of his heart to her.  They spoke together of the archdeacon,
as two children might of a stern, unpopular, but still respected
schoolmaster, and of the bishop as a parent kind as kind could be, but
powerless against an omnipotent pedagogue.

And then when they had discussed all this, when the father had told
all to the child, she could not be less confiding than he had been;
and as John Bold's name was mentioned between them, she owned how well
she had learned to love him,--"had loved him once," she said, "but she
would not, could not do so now--no, even had her troth been plighted
to him, she would have taken it back again;--had she sworn to love
him as his wife, she would have discarded him, and not felt herself
forsworn, when he proved himself the enemy of her father."

But the warden declared that Bold was no enemy of his, and encouraged
her love; and gently rebuked, as he kissed her, the stern resolve she
had made to cast him off; and then he spoke to her of happier days
when their trials would all be over; and declared that her young heart
should not be torn asunder to please either priest or prelate, dean or
archdeacon.  No, not if all Oxford were to convocate together, and
agree as to the necessity of the sacrifice.

And so they greatly comforted each other;--and in what sorrow will not
such mutual confidence give consolation!--and with a last expression
of tender love they parted, and went comparatively happy to their
rooms.


Chapter XI

IPHIGENIA


When Eleanor laid her head on her pillow that night, her mind was
anxiously intent on some plan by which she might extricate her father
from his misery; and, in her warm-hearted enthusiasm, self-sacrifice
was decided on as the means to be adopted.  Was not so good an
Agamemnon worthy of an Iphigenia?  She would herself personally
implore John Bold to desist from his undertaking; she would explain to
him her father's sorrows, the cruel misery of his position; she would
tell him how her father would die if he were thus dragged before the
public and exposed to such unmerited ignominy; she would appeal to his
old friendship, to his generosity, to his manliness, to his mercy; if
need were, she would kneel to him for the favour she would ask; but
before she did this the idea of love must be banished.  There must be
no bargain in the matter.  To his mercy, to his generosity, she could
appeal; but as a pure maiden, hitherto even unsolicited, she could not
appeal to his love, nor under such circumstances could she allow him
to do so.  Of course, when so provoked he would declare his passion;
that was to be expected; there had been enough between them to make
such a fact sure; but it was equally certain that he must be rejected.
She could not be understood as saying, Make my father free and I
am the reward.  There would be no sacrifice in that;--not so had
Jephthah's daughter saved her father;--not so could she show to
that kindest, dearest of parents how much she was able to bear for
his good.  No; to one resolve must her whole soul be bound; and so
resolving, she felt that she could make her great request to Bold
with as much self-assured confidence as she could have done to his
grandfather.

And now I own I have fears for my heroine; not as to the upshot of her
mission,--not in the least as to that; as to the full success of her
generous scheme, and the ultimate result of such a project, no one
conversant with human nature and novels can have a doubt; but as to
the amount of sympathy she may receive from those of her own sex.
Girls below twenty and old ladies above sixty will do her justice; for
in the female heart the soft springs of sweet romance reopen after
many years, and again gush out with waters pure as in earlier days,
and greatly refresh the path that leads downwards to the grave.
But I fear that the majority of those between these two eras will
not approve of Eleanor's plan.  I fear that unmarried ladies of
thirty-five will declare that there can be no probability of so absurd
a project being carried through; that young women on their knees
before their lovers are sure to get kissed, and that they would not
put themselves in such a position did they not expect it; that Eleanor
is going to Bold only because circumstances prevent Bold from coming
to her; that she is certainly a little fool, or a little schemer, but
that in all probability she is thinking a good deal more about herself
than her father.

Dear ladies, you are right as to your appreciation of the
circumstances, but very wrong as to Miss Harding's character.  Miss
Harding was much younger than you are, and could not, therefore, know,
as you may do, to what dangers such an encounter might expose her.
She may get kissed; I think it very probable that she will; but I give
my solemn word and positive assurance, that the remotest idea of such
a catastrophe never occurred to her as she made the great resolve now
alluded to.

And then she slept; and then she rose refreshed; and met her father
with her kindest embrace and most loving smiles; and on the whole
their breakfast was by no means so triste as had been their dinner the
day before; and then, making some excuse to her father for so soon
leaving him, she started on the commencement of her operations.

She knew that John Bold was in London, and that, therefore, the scene
itself could not be enacted to-day; but she also knew that he was soon
to be home, probably on the next day, and it was necessary that some
little plan for meeting him should be concerted with his sister Mary.
When she got up to the house, she went, as usual, into the morning
sitting-room, and was startled by perceiving, by a stick, a greatcoat,
and sundry parcels which were lying about, that Bold must already have
returned.

"John has come back so suddenly," said Mary, coming into the room; "he
has been travelling all night."

"Then I'll come up again some other time," said Eleanor, about to beat
a retreat in her sudden dismay.

"He's out now, and will be for the next two hours," said the other;
"he's with that horrid Finney; he only came to see him, and he returns
by the mail train tonight."

Returns by the mail train tonight, thought Eleanor to herself, as she
strove to screw up her courage;--away again tonight;--then it must be
now or never; and she again sat down, having risen to go.

She wished the ordeal could have been postponed: she had fully made
up her mind to do the deed, but she had not made up her mind to do it
this very day; and now she felt ill at ease, astray, and in
difficulty.

"Mary," she began, "I must see your brother before he goes back."

"Oh yes, of course," said the other; "I know he'll be delighted to see
you;" and she tried to treat it as a matter of course, but she was not
the less surprised; for Mary and Eleanor had daily talked over John
Bold and his conduct, and his love, and Mary would insist on calling
Eleanor her sister, and would scold her for not calling Bold by his
Christian name; and Eleanor would half confess her love, but like a
modest maiden would protest against such familiarities even with the
name of her lover; and so they talked hour after hour, and Mary Bold,
who was much the elder, looked forward with happy confidence to the
day when Eleanor would not be ashamed to call her her sister.  She
was, however, fully sure that just at present Eleanor would be much
more likely to avoid her brother than to seek him.

"Mary, I must see your brother, now, to-day, and beg from him a great
favour;" and she spoke with a solemn air, not at all usual to her;
and then she went on, and opened to her friend all her plan, her
well-weighed scheme for saving her father from a sorrow which would,
she said, if it lasted, bring him to his grave.  "But, Mary," she
continued, "you must now, you know, cease any joking about me and Mr
Bold; you must now say no more about that; I am not ashamed to beg
this favour from your brother, but when I have done so, there can
never be anything further between us;" and this she said with a staid
and solemn air, quite worthy of Jephthah's daughter or of Iphigenia
either.

It was quite clear that Mary Bold did not follow the argument.  That
Eleanor Harding should appeal, on behalf of her father, to Bold's
better feelings seemed to Mary quite natural; it seemed quite natural
that he should relent, overcome by such filial tears, and by so much
beauty; but, to her thinking, it was at any rate equally natural, that
having relented, John should put his arm round his mistress's waist,
and say: "Now having settled that, let us be man and wife, and all
will end happily!"  Why his good nature should not be rewarded, when
such reward would operate to the disadvantage of none, Mary, who had
more sense than romance, could not understand; and she said as much.

Eleanor, however, was firm, and made quite an eloquent speech to
support her own view of the question: she could not condescend, she
said, to ask such a favour on any other terms than those proposed.
Mary might, perhaps, think her high-flown, but she had her own ideas,
and she could not submit to sacrifice her self-respect.

"But I am sure you love him;--don't you?" pleaded Mary; "and I am sure
he loves you better than anything in the world."

Eleanor was going to make another speech, but a tear came to each eye,
and she could not; so she pretended to blow her nose, and walked to
the window, and made a little inward call on her own courage, and
finding herself somewhat sustained, said sententiously: "Mary, this
is nonsense."

"But you do love him," said Mary, who had followed her friend to the
window, and now spoke with her arms close wound round the other's
waist.  "You do love him with all your heart,--you know you do; I defy
you to deny it."

"I--" commenced Eleanor, turning sharply round to refute the charge;
but the intended falsehood stuck in her throat, and never came to
utterance.  She could not deny her love, so she took plentifully
to tears, and leant upon her friend's bosom and sobbed there, and
protested that, love or no love, it would make no difference in her
resolve, and called Mary, a thousand times, the most cruel of girls,
and swore her to secrecy by a hundred oaths, and ended by declaring
that the girl who could betray her friend's love, even to a brother,
would be as black a traitor as a soldier in a garrison who should
open the city gates to the enemy.  While they were yet discussing the
matter, Bold returned, and Eleanor was forced into sudden action: she
had either to accomplish or abandon her plan; and having slipped into
her friend's bedroom, as the gentleman closed the hall door, she
washed the marks of tears from her eyes, and resolved within herself
to go through with it.  "Tell him I am here," said she, "and coming
in; and mind, whatever you do, don't leave us."  So Mary informed her
brother, with a somewhat sombre air, that Miss Harding was in the next
room, and was coming to speak to him.

Eleanor was certainly thinking more of her father than herself, as she
arranged her hair before the glass, and removed the traces of sorrow
from her face; and yet I should be untrue if I said that she was not
anxious to appear well before her lover: why else was she so sedulous
with that stubborn curl that would rebel against her hand, and smooth
so eagerly her ruffled ribands? why else did she damp her eyes to
dispel the redness, and bite her pretty lips to bring back the colour?
Of course she was anxious to look her best, for she was but a mortal
angel after all.  But had she been immortal, had she flitted back to
the sitting-room on a cherub's wings, she could not have had a more
faithful heart, or a truer wish to save her father at any cost to
herself.

John Bold had not met her since the day when she left him in dudgeon
in the cathedral close.  Since then his whole time had been occupied
in promoting the cause against her father, and not unsuccessfully.
He had often thought of her, and turned over in his mind a hundred
schemes for showing her how disinterested was his love.  He would
write to her and beseech her not to allow the performance of a public
duty to injure him in her estimation; he would write to Mr Harding,
explain all his views, and boldly claim the warden's daughter, urging
that the untoward circumstances between them need be no bar to their
ancient friendship, or to a closer tie; he would throw himself on his
knees before his mistress; he would wait and marry the daughter when
the father has lost his home and his income; he would give up the
lawsuit and go to Australia, with her of course, leaving _The Jupiter_
and Mr Finney to complete the case between them.  Sometimes as he woke
in the morning fevered and impatient, he would blow out his brains and
have done with all his cares;--but this idea was generally consequent
on an imprudent supper enjoyed in company with Tom Towers.

How beautiful Eleanor appeared to him as she slowly walked into the
room!  Not for nothing had all those little cares been taken.  Though
her sister, the archdeacon's wife, had spoken slightingly of her
charms, Eleanor was very beautiful when seen aright.  Hers was not of
those impassive faces, which have the beauty of a marble bust; finely
chiselled features, perfect in every line, true to the rules of
symmetry, as lovely to a stranger as to a friend, unvarying unless in
sickness, or as age affects them.  She had no startling brilliancy of
beauty, no pearly whiteness, no radiant carnation.  CIX.

AFRICAN SLAVE TRADE.

I deem it my duty on this occasion to suggest, that the land is not
yet wholly free from the contamination of a traffic, at which every
feeling of humanity must forever revolt,--I mean the African slave
trade.

Neither public sentiment, nor the law, has hitherto been able entirely
to put an end to this odious and abominable trade. At the moment
when God in his mercy has blessed the Christian world with a universal
peace, there is reason to fear, that, to the disgrace of the Christian
name and character, new efforts are making for the extension of this
trade by subjects and citizens of Christian States, in whose hearts
there dwell no sentiments of humanity or of justice, and over whom
neither the fear of God nor the fear of man exercises a control.

In the sight of our law, the African slave trader is a pirate and a
felon; and in the sight of Heaven, an offender far beyond the
ordinary depth of human guilt. There is no brighter page of our
history, than that which records the measures which have been
adopted by the government at an early day and at different times
since, for the suppression of this traffic; and I would call on all
the true sons of New England to coöperate with the laws of man, and
the justice of Heaven.

If there be, within the extent of our knowledge or influence, any
participation in this traffic, let us pledge ourselves here, upon
the rock of Plymouth, to extirpate and destroy it.

It is not fit that the land of the Pilgrims should bear the shame longer.
I hear the sound of the hammer, I see the smoke of the furnaces
where manacles and fetters are still forged for human limbs.

I see the visages of those who by stealth and at midnight labor in this
work of hell, foul and dark, as may become the artificers of such
instruments of misery and torture. Let that spot be purified, or
let it cease to be of New England.

Let it be purified, or let it be set aside from the Christian world;
let it be put out of the circle of human sympathies and human
regards, and let civilized man henceforth have no communion with it.

I would invoke those who fill the seats of justice, and all who minister
at her altar, that they execute the wholesome and necessary severity
of the law. I invoke the ministers of our religion, that they proclaim
its denunciation of these crimes, and add its solemn sanctions
to the authority of human laws. If the pulpit be silent whenever or
wherever there may be a sinner bloody with this guilt within the
hearing of its voice, the pulpit is false to its trust. I call on the
fair merchant, who has reaped his harvest upon the seas, that he
assist in scourging from those seas the worst pirates that ever
infested them.

That ocean, which seems to wave with a gentle magnificence to waft the
burden of an honest commerce, and to roll along its treasures with
a conscious pride, that ocean, which hardy industry regards, even
when the winds have ruffled its surface, as a field of grateful
toil,--what is it to the victim of this oppression, when he is
brought to its shores, and looks forth upon it, for the first time,
loaded with chains, and bleeding with stripes?

What is it to him but a wide-spread prospect of suffering, anguish and
death? Nor do the skies smile longer, nor is the air longer fragrant
to him. The sun is cast down from heaven. An inhuman and accursed
traffic has cut him off in his manhood, or in his youth, from every
enjoyment belonging to his being, and every blessing which his
Creator intended for him.

The Christian communities send forth their emissaries of religion and
letters, who stop, here and there, along the coast of the vast continent
of Africa, and with painful and tedious efforts make some almost
imperceptible progress in the communication of knowledge, and in the
general improvement of the natives who are immediately about them.

Not thus slow and imperceptible is the transmission of the vices and
bad passions which the subjects of Christian States carry to the land.
The slave trade having touched the coast, its influence and its
evils spread, like a pestilence, over the whole continent, making
savage wars more savage and more frequent, and adding new and fierce
passions to the contests of barbarians.

I pursue this topic no further, except again to say, that all
Christendom, being now blessed with peace, is bound by everything
which belongs to its character, and to the character of the present
age, to put a stop to this inhuman and disgraceful traffic.
D. Webster.

CX.

SUPPOSED SPEECH OF JOHN ADAMS IN FAVOR OF THE DECLARATION OF
INDEPENDENCE.

Sink or swim, live or die, survive or perish, I give my hand and my
heart to this vote.

It is true, indeed, that in the beginning, we aimed not at independence.
But there's a Divinity which shapes our ends. The injustice of
England has driven us to arms; and, blinded to her own interest, for
our good, she has obstinately persisted, till independence is now within
our grasp. We have but to reach forth to it, and it is ours.

Why, then, should we defer the Declaration? Is any man so weak as now
to hope for a reconciliation with England, which shall leave either
safety to the country and its liberties, or safety to his own life,
and his own honor?

Are not you, sir, who sit in that chair,--is not he, our venerable
colleague, near you, are you not both already the proscribed and
predestined objects of punishment and vengeance? Cut off from all
hope of royal clemency what are you, what can you be, while the power
of England remains, but outlaws?

If we postpone independence, do we mean to carry on, or to give up,
the war?

Do we mean to submit to the measures of Parliament, Boston Port Bill
and all? Do we mean to submit, and consent that we ourselves shall
be ground to powder, and our Country and its rights trodden down
in the dust?
I know we do not mean to submit. We never shall submit. Do we intend
to violate that most solemn obligation ever entered into by men, that
plighting, before God, of our sacred honor to Washington, when putting
him forth to incur the dangers of war, as well as the political hazards
of the times, we promised to adhere to him, in every extremity,
with our fortunes and our lives?

I know there is not a man here, who would not rather see a general
conflagration sweep over the land, or an earthquake sink it, than one
jot or tittle of that plighted faith fall to the ground. For myself,
having, twelve months ago, in this place, moved you, that George
Washington be appointed commander of the forces, raised, or to be
raised, for the defence of American liberty, may my right hand
forget her cunning, and my tongue cleave to the roof of my mouth
if I hesitate or waver in the support I give him.

The war, then, must go on.

We must fight it through. And, if the war must go on, why put off longer
the Declaration of Independence? That measure will strengthen us; it
will give us character abroad. The nations will then treat with us,
which they never can do while we acknowledge ourselves subjects, in
arms against our sovereign. Nay, I maintain that England her self
will sooner treat for peace with us on the footing of independence,
than consent, by repealing her acts, to acknowledge that her whole
conduct towards us has been a course of injustice and oppression.

Her pride will be less wounded, by submitting to that course of
things which now predestinates our independence than by yielding
the points in controversy to her rebellious subjects.

The former she would regard as the result of fortune; the latter
she would feel as her own deep disgrace.

Why then, why then, sir, do we not as soon as possible change this
from a civil to a national war?

And since we must fight it through, why not put ourselves in a state
to enjoy all the benefits of victory if we gain the victory?
D. Webster.

CXI.

THE SAME CONCLUDED.

If we fail, it can be no worse for us. But we shall not fail.

The cause will raise up armies; the cause will create navies. The people,
the people, if we are true to them, will carry us and will carry
themselves, gloriously through this struggle. I care not how fickle
other people have been found.
I know the people of these Colonies, and I know that resistance to
British aggression is deep and settled in their hearts, and cannot be
eradicated.
Every Colony, indeed, has expressed its willingness to follow, if
we but take the lead.

Sir, the Declaration will inspire the people with increased
courage. Instead of a long and bloody war for restoration of privileges,
for redress of grievances, for chartered immunities, held under a
British king, set before them the glorious object of entire
independence, and it will breathe into them anew the breath of life.

Read this Declaration at the head of the army; every sword will
be drawn from its scabbard, and the solemn vow uttered, to maintain it,
or to perish on the bed of honor.

Publish it from the pulpit; religion will approve it, and the love
of religious liberty will cling round it, resolved to stand with
it, or fall with it. Send it to the public halls; proclaim it there;
let them hear it, who heard the first roar of the enemy's cannon; let
them see it, who saw their brothers and their sons fall on the field
of Bunker Hill, and in the streets of Lexington and Concord, and
the very walls will cry out in its support.

Sir, I know the uncertainty of human affairs; but I see, I see
dearly through this day's business.

You and I, indeed, may run it. We may not live to the time when this
Declaration shall be made good. We may die; die colonists; die slaves;
die, it may be, ignominiously and on the scaffold.
Be it so. Be it so.

If it be the pleasure of Heaven, that my country shall require the poor
offering of my life, the victim shall be ready at the appointed hour
of sacrifice, come when that hour may. But, while I do live, let
me have a country, or at least the hope of a country, and that a free
country.

But, whatever may be our fate, be assured, be assured, that this
Declaration will stand. It may cost treasure, and it may cost blood;
but it will stand, and it will richly compensate for both. Through
the thick gloom of the present, I see the brightness of the future,
as the sun in heaven.
We shall make this a glorious, an immortal day. When we are in our
graves, our children will honor it. They will celebrate it, with
thanksgiving, with festivity, with bonfires, and illuminations. On
its annual return, they will shed tears, copious, gushing tears, not
of subjection and slavery, not of agony and distress, but of exultation,
of gratitude, and of joy.

Sir, before God, I believe the hour is come. My judgment approves
this measure, and my whole heart is in it. All that I have, and all
that I am, and all that I hope, in this life, I am now ready here to
stake upon it; and I leave off, as I begun, that, live or die,
survive or perish, I am for the Declaration.

It is my living sentiment, and, by the blessing of God, it shall be
my dying sentiment,--Independence now; and Independence Forever!
D. Webster.

CXII.

INFLUENCE OF THE CHARACTER OF WASHINGTON.

America has furnished to the world the character of Washington! And if
our American institutions had done nothing else, that alone would
have entitled them to the respect of mankind.

Washington! "First in war, first in peace, and first in the hearts of
his countrymen!" Washington is all our own! The enthusiastic
veneration and regard in which the people of the United States
hold him prove them to be worthy of such a countryman; while his
reputation abroad redeems the highest honor on his country and its
institutions.

I would cheerfully put the question to-day to the intelligence of Europe
and the world what character of the century, upon the whole, stands
out in the relief of history, most pure, most respectable, most sublime;
and I doubt not, that, by a suffrage approaching to unanimity, the
answer would be Washington!

The structure now standing before us, by its uprightness, its
solidity, its durability, is no unfit emblem of his character.

His public virtues and public principles were as firm as the earth
on which it stands; his personal motives, as pure as the serene
heavens in which its summit is lost.

But, indeed, though a fit, it is an inadequate emblem. Towering
high above the column which our hands have builded, beheld, not by
the inhabitants of a single city or a single State, but by all the
families of man, ascends the colossal grandeur of the character
and life of Washington.

In all the constituents of the one, in all the acts of the other,
in all its titles to immortal love, admiration and renown, it is
an American production.

It is the embodiment and vindication of our Transatlantic
liberty.

Born upon our soil of parents also born upon it; never for a moment
having had sight of the Old World; instructed, according to the
modes of his time, only in the spare, plain, but wholesome elementary
knowledge which our institutions provided for the children of the
people; growing up beneath and penetrated by the genuine influences
of American society; living from infancy to manhood and age amidst
our expanding, but not luxurious civilization; partaking in our
great destiny of labor, our long contest with unreclaimed nature
and uncivilized man, our agony of glory, the war of independence,
our great victory of peace, the formation of the Union, and the
establishment of the Constitution; he is all, all our own!

Washington is ours. That crowded and glorious life,
"Where multitudes of virtues passed along, Each pressing foremost,
in the mighty throng Ambitious to be seen, then making room For
greater multitudes that were to come,"--
that life was the life of an American citizen.

I claim him for America. In all the perils, in every darkened moment
of the State, in the midst of the reproaches of enemies and the misgiving
of friends, I turn to that transcendent name for courage and for
consolation.
To him who denies or doubts whether our fervid liberty can be
combined with law, with order, with the security of property, with
the pursuits and advancement of happiness; to him who denies that our
forms of government are capable of producing exaltation of soul,
and the passion of true glory; to him who denies that we have
contributed anything to the stock of great lessons and great
examples; to all these I reply by pointing to Washington!

D. Webster.

CXIII.

PUBLIC OPINION.

The time has been, indeed, when fleets, and armies, and subsidies,
were the principal reliances even in the best cause. But, happily for
mankind, a great change has taken place in this respect. Moral causes
come into consideration, in proportion as the progress of knowledge is
advanced; and the public opinion of the civilized world is rapidly
gaining an ascendeney over mere brutal force. It is already able to
oppose the most formidable obstruction to the progress of injustice and
oppression; and as it grows more intelligent and more intense it will
be more and more formidable. It may be silenced by military power,
but it cannot be conquered. It is elastic, irrepressible, and
invulnerable to the weapons of ordinary warfare. It is that impassive,
inextinguishable enemy of mere violence and arbitrary rule, which,
like Milton's angels,
"Vital in every part, . . . . .

Cannot, but by annihilating die."
Until this be propitiated or satisfied, it is vain for power to talk
either of triumphs or of repose. No matter what fields are desolated,
what fortresses surrendered, what armies subdued, or what provinces
overrun. In the history of the year that has passed by us, and
in the instance of unhappy Spain, we have seen the vanity of all
triumphs in a cause which violates the general sense of justice
of the civilized world.

It is nothing that the troops of France have passed from the Pyrenees
to Cadiz; it is nothing that an unhappy and prostrate nation has
fallen before them; it is nothing that arrests, and confiscation, and
execution, sweep away the little remnant of national resistance. There
is an enemy that still exists to check the glory of these triumphs.
It follows the conqueror back to the very scene of his ovations; it
calls upon him to take notice that Europe, though silent, is yet
indignant; it shows him that the sceptre of his victory is a barren
sceptre; that it shall confer neither joy nor honor, but shall
moulder to dry ashes in his grasp. In the midst of his exultation,
it pierces his ear with the cry of injured Justice; it denounces
against him the indignation of an enlightened and civilized age; it
turns to bitterness the cup of his rejoicing, and wounds him with
the sting which belongs to the consciousness of having outraged
the opinion of mankind.

D. Webster.

CXIV.

THE MURDERER'S SECRET.

The deed was executed with a degree of self-possession and steadiness,
equal to the wickedness with which it was planned. The circumstances,
now clearly in evidence, spread out the whole scene before us. Deep
sleep had fallen on the destined victim, and on all beneath his
roof A healthful old man, to whom sleep was sweet, the just sound
slumbers of the night held him in their soft but strong embrace.

The assassin enters, through the window already prepared, into an
unoccupied apartment. With noiseless foot he paces the lonely hall
half-lighted by the moon; he winds up the ascent of the stairs, and
reaches the door of the chamber. Of this, he moves the lock, by
soft and continued pressure, till it turns on its hinges without
noise; and he enters, and beholds his victim before him.

The room was uncommonly open to the admission of light. The face
of the innocent sleeper was turned from the murderer, and the beams of
the moon, resting on the gray locks of his aged temple, showed him where
to strike. The fatal blow is given!

and the victim passes, without a struggle or a motion, from the
repose of sleep to the repose of death! It is the assassin's purpose
to make sure work; and he plies the dagger, though it is obvious that
life has been destroyed by the blow of the bludgeon. He even raises
the aged arm, that he may not fail in his aim at the heart, and replaces
it again over the wounds of the poniard. To finish the picture, he
explores the wrist for the pulse! He feels for it and ascertains
that it beats no longer!

It is accomplished. The deed is done. He retreats, retraces his
steps to the window, passes out through it as he came in, and
escapes.

He has done the murder. No eye has seen him, no ear has heard him. The
secret is his own, and it is safe!

Ah! gentlemen, that was a dreadful mistake. Such a secret can be safe
nowhere. The whole creation of God has neither nook nor corner, where
the guilty can bestow it, and say it is safe.

Not to speak of that eye which glances through all disguises, and
beholds everything, as in the splendor of noon, such secrets of guilt
are never safe from detection, even by man.

D. Webster.

CXV.

THE SAME CONCLUDED.

True it is, generally speaking, that murder "will out." True it is,
that Providence hath so ordained, and doth so govern tidings, that
those who break the great law of Heaven by shedding man's blood, seldom
succeed in avoiding discovery. Especially, in a case exciting so much
attention as this, discovery must and will come, sooner or later. A
thousand eyes turn at once to explore every man, every thing every
circumstance, connected with the time and place; a thousand ears catch
every whisper; a thousand excited minds intensely dwell on the
scene; shedding all their light, and ready to kindle the slightest
circumstance into a blaze of discovery.

Meantime, the guilty soul cannot keep its own secret.
It is cruciform, though the transepts
are irregular, one being larger than the other; and the tower is much
too high in proportion to the church.  But the colour of the building
is perfect; it is that rich yellow gray which one finds nowhere but in
the south and west of England, and which is so strong a characteristic
of most of our old houses of Tudor architecture.  The stone work also
is beautiful; the mullions of the windows and the thick tracery of
the Gothic workmanship is as rich as fancy can desire; and though in
gazing on such a structure one knows by rule that the old priests who
built it, built it wrong, one cannot bring oneself to wish that they
should have made it other than it is.

When Bold was ushered into the book-room, he found its owner standing
with his back to the empty fire-place ready to receive him, and he
could not but perceive that that expansive brow was elated with
triumph, and that those full heavy lips bore more prominently than
usual an appearance of arrogant success.

"Well, Mr Bold," said he;--"well, what can I do for you?
Very happy, I can assure you, to do anything for such a friend
of my father-in-law."

"I hope you'll excuse my calling, Dr Grantly."

"Certainly, certainly," said the archdeacon; "I can assure you, no
apology is necessary from Mr Bold;--only let me know what I can do for
him."

Dr Grantly was standing himself, and he did not ask Bold to sit, and
therefore he had to tell his tale standing, leaning on the table, with
his hat in his hand.  He did, however, manage to tell it; and as the
archdeacon never once interrupted him, or even encouraged him by a
single word, he was not long in coming to the end of it.

"And so, Mr Bold, I'm to understand, I believe, that you are desirous
of abandoning this attack upon Mr Harding."

"Oh, Dr Grantly, there has been no attack, I can assure you--"

"Well, well, we won't quarrel about words; I should call it an
attack;--most men would so call an endeavour to take away from a man
every shilling of income that he has to live upon; but it sha'n't be
an attack, if you don't like it; you wish to abandon this--this little
game of backgammon you've begun to play."

"I intend to put an end to the legal proceedings which I have
commenced."

"I understand," said the archdeacon.  "You've already had enough
of it; well, I can't say that I am surprised; carrying on a losing
lawsuit where one has nothing to gain, but everything to pay, is not
pleasant."

Bold turned very red in the face.  "You misinterpret my motives," said
he; "but, however, that is of little consequence.  I did not come
to trouble you with my motives, but to tell you a matter of fact.
Good-morning, Dr Grantly."

"One moment,--one moment," said the other.  "I don't exactly
appreciate the taste which induced you to make any personal
communication to me on the subject; but I dare say I'm wrong, I dare
say your judgment is the better of the two; but as you have done me
the honour,--as you have, as it were, forced me into a certain amount
of conversation on a subject which had better, perhaps, have been left
to our lawyers, you will excuse me if I ask you to hear my reply to
your communication."

"I am in no hurry, Dr Grantly."

"Well, I am, Mr Bold; my time is not exactly leisure time, and,
therefore, if you please, we'll go to the point at once:--you're going
to abandon this lawsuit?"--and he paused for a reply.

"Yes, Dr Grantly, I am."

"Having exposed a gentleman who was one of your father's warmest
friends to all the ignominy and insolence which the press could heap
upon his name, having somewhat ostentatiously declared that it was
your duty as a man of high public virtue to protect those poor old
fools whom you have humbugged there at the hospital, you now find that
the game costs more than it's worth, and so you make up your mind to
have done with it.  A prudent resolution, Mr Bold; but it is a pity
you should have been so long coming to it.  Has it struck you that
we may not now choose to give over? that we may find it necessary to
punish the injury you have done to us?  Are you aware, sir, that we
have gone to enormous expense to resist this iniquitous attempt of
yours?"

Bold's face was now furiously red, and he nearly crushed his hat
between his hands; but he said nothing.

"We have found it necessary to employ the best advice that money
could procure.  Are you aware, sir, what may be the probable cost of
securing the services of the attorney-general?"

"Not in the least, Dr Grantly."

"I dare say not, sir.  When you recklessly put this affair into
the hands of your friend Mr Finney, whose six-and-eightpences and
thirteen-and-fourpences may, probably, not amount to a large sum, you
were indifferent as to the cost and suffering which such a proceeding
might entail on others; but are you aware, sir, that these crushing
costs must now come out of your own pocket?"

"Any demand of such a nature which Mr Harding's lawyer may have to
make will doubtless be made to my lawyer."

"'Mr Harding's lawyer and my lawyer!' Did you come here merely to
refer me to the lawyers?  Upon my word I think the honour of your
visit might have been spared!  And now, sir, I'll tell you what my
opinion is:--my opinion is, that we shall not allow you to withdraw
this matter from the courts."

"You can do as you please, Dr Grantly; good-morning."

"Hear me out, sir," said the archdeacon; "I have here in my hands the
last opinion given in this matter by Sir Abraham Haphazard.  I dare
say you have already heard of this;--I dare say it has had something
to do with your visit here to-day."

"I know nothing whatever of Sir Abraham Haphazard or his opinion."

"Be that as it may, here it is; he declares most explicitly that under
no phasis of the affair whatever have you a leg to stand upon; that Mr
Harding is as safe in his hospital as I am here in my rectory; that a
more futile attempt to destroy a man was never made, than this which
you have made to ruin Mr Harding.  Here," and he slapped the paper
on the table, "I have this opinion from the very first lawyer in the
land; and under these circumstances you expect me to make you a low
bow for your kind offer to release Mr Harding from the toils of your
net!  Sir, your net is not strong enough to hold him; sir, your net
has fallen to pieces, and you knew that well enough before I told
you--and now, sir, I'll wish you good-morning, for I'm busy."

Bold was now choking with passion.  He had let the archdeacon run on
because he knew not with what words to interrupt him; but now that he
had been so defied and insulted, he could not leave the room without
some reply.

"Dr Grantly," he commenced.

"I have nothing further to say or to hear," said the archdeacon.
"I'll do myself the honour to order your horse."  And he rang the
bell.

"I came here, Dr Grantly, with the warmest, kindest feelings--"

"Oh, of course you did; nobody doubts it."

"With the kindest feelings;--and they have been most grossly outraged
by your treatment."

"Of course they have;--I have not chosen to see my father-in-law
ruined; what an outrage that has been to your feelings!"

"The time will come, Dr Grantly, when you will understand why I called
upon you to-day."

"No doubt, no doubt.  Is Mr Bold's horse there?  That's right; open
the front door.  Good-morning, Mr Bold;" and the doctor stalked into
his own drawing-room, closing the door behind him, and making it quite
impossible that John Bold should speak another word.

As he got on his horse, which he was fain to do feeling like a dog
turned out of a kitchen, he was again greeted by little Sammy.

"Good-bye, Mr Bold; I hope we may have the pleasure of seeing you
again before long; I am sure papa will always be glad to see you."

That was certainly the bitterest moment in John Bold's life.  Not even
the remembrance of his successful love could comfort him; nay, when
he thought of Eleanor he felt that it was that very love which had
brought him to such a pass.  That he should have been so insulted,
and be unable to reply!  That he should have given up so much to the
request of a girl, and then have had his motives so misunderstood!
That he should have made so gross a mistake as this visit of his to
the archdeacon's!  He bit the top of his whip, till he penetrated the
horn of which it was made: he struck the poor animal in his anger, and
then was doubly angry with himself at his futile passion.  He had been
so completely checkmated, so palpably overcome! and what was he to do?
He could not continue his action after pledging himself to abandon it;
nor was there any revenge in that;--it was the very step to which his
enemy had endeavoured to goad him!

He threw the reins to the servant who came to take his horse, and
rushed upstairs into his drawing-room, where his sister Mary was
sitting.

"If there be a devil," said he, "a real devil here on earth, it is
Dr Grantly."  He vouchsafed her no further intelligence, but again
seizing his hat, he rushed out, and took his departure for London
without another word to anyone.


Chapter XIII

THE WARDEN'S DECISION


The meeting between Eleanor and her father was not so stormy as that
described in the last chapter, but it was hardly more successful.  On
her return from Bold's house she found her father in a strange state.
He was not sorrowful and silent as he had been on that memorable
day when his son-in-law lectured him as to all that he owed to his
order; nor was he in his usual quiet mood.  When Eleanor reached the
hospital, he was walking to and fro upon the lawn, and she soon saw
that he was much excited.

"I am going to London, my dear," he said as soon as he saw her.

"London, papa!"

"Yes, my dear, to London; I will have this matter settled some way;
there are some things, Eleanor, which I cannot bear."

"Oh, papa, what is it?" said she, leading him by the arm into the
house.  "I had such good news for you, and now you make me fear I am
too late."  And then, before he could let her know what had caused
this sudden resolve, or could point to the fatal paper which lay on
the table, she told him that the lawsuit was over, that Bold had
commissioned her to assure her father in his name that it would be
abandoned,--that there was no further cause for misery, that the whole
matter might be looked on as though it had never been discussed.  She
did not tell him with what determined vehemence she had obtained this
concession in his favour, nor did she mention the price she was to pay
for it.

The warden did not express himself peculiarly gratified at this
intelligence, and Eleanor, though she had not worked for thanks, and
was by no means disposed to magnify her own good offices, felt hurt
at the manner in which her news was received.  "Mr Bold can act as
he thinks proper, my love," said he; "if Mr Bold thinks he has been
wrong, of course he will discontinue what he is doing; but that cannot
change my purpose."

"Oh, papa!" she exclaimed, all but crying with vexation; "I thought
you would have been so happy;--I thought all would have been right
now."

"Mr Bold," continued he, "has set great people to work,--so great that
I doubt they are now beyond his control.  Read that, my dear."  The
warden, doubling up a number of _The Jupiter_, pointed to the peculiar
article which she was to read.  It was to the last of the three
leaders, which are generally furnished daily for the support of the
nation, that Mr Harding directed her attention.  It dealt some heavy
blows on various clerical delinquents; on families who received their
tens of thousands yearly for doing nothing; on men who, as the article
stated, rolled in wealth which they had neither earned nor inherited,
and which was in fact stolen from the poorer clergy.  It named some
sons of bishops, and grandsons of archbishops; men great in their way,
who had redeemed their disgrace in the eyes of many by the enormity of
their plunder; and then, having disposed of these leviathans, it
descended to Mr Harding.


   We alluded some weeks since to an instance of similar
   injustice, though in a more humble scale, in which the warden
   of an almshouse at Barchester has become possessed of the
   income of the greater part of the whole institution.  Why an
   almshouse should have a warden we cannot pretend to explain,
   nor can we say what special need twelve old men can have for
   the services of a separate clergyman, seeing that they have
   twelve reserved seats for themselves in Barchester Cathedral.
   But be this as it may, let the gentleman call himself warden
   or precentor, or what he will, let him be never so scrupulous
   in exacting religious duties from his twelve dependents, or
   never so negligent as regards the services of the cathedral,
   it appears palpably clear that he can be entitled to no
   portion of the revenue of the hospital, excepting that which
   the founder set apart for him; and it is equally clear that
   the founder did not intend that three-fifths of his charity
   should be so consumed.

   The case is certainly a paltry one after the tens of
   thousands with which we have been dealing, for the warden's
   income is after all but a poor eight hundred a year: eight
   hundred a year is not magnificent preferment of itself, and
   the warden may, for anything we know, be worth much more to
   the church; but if so, let the church pay him out of funds
   justly at its own disposal.

   We allude to the question of the Barchester almshouse at the
   present moment, because we understand that a plea has been
   set up which will be peculiarly revolting to the minds of
   English churchmen.  An action has been taken against Mr
   Warden Harding, on behalf of the almsmen, by a gentleman
   acting solely on public grounds, and it is to be argued that
   Mr Harding takes nothing but what he received as a servant of
   the hospital, and that he is not himself responsible for the
   amount of stipend given to him for his work.  Such a plea
   would doubtless be fair, if anyone questioned the daily wages
   of a bricklayer employed on the building, or the fee of the
   charwoman who cleans it; but we cannot envy the feeling of a
   clergyman of the Church of England who could allow such an
   argument to be put in his mouth.

   If this plea be put forward we trust Mr Harding will be
   forced as a witness to state the nature of his employment;
   the amount of work that he does; the income which he
   receives; and the source from whence he obtained his
   appointment.  We do not think he will receive much public
   sympathy to atone for the annoyance of such an examination.


As Eleanor read the article her face flushed with indignation, and
when she had finished it, she almost feared to look up at her father.

"Well, my dear," said he, "what do you think of that;--is it worth
while to be a warden at that price?"

"Oh, papa;--dear papa!"

"Mr Bold can't un-write that, my dear;--Mr Bold can't say that that
sha'n't be read by every clergyman at Oxford; nay, by every gentleman
in the land;" and then he walked up and down the room, while Eleanor
in mute despair followed him with her eyes.  "And I'll tell you what,
my dear," he continued, speaking now very calmly, and in a forced
manner very unlike himself; "Mr Bold can't dispute the truth of every
word in that article you have just read--nor can I."  Eleanor stared
at him, as though she scarcely understood the words he was speaking.
"Nor can I, Eleanor: that's the worst of all, or would be so if
there were no remedy.  I have thought much of all this since we were
together last night;" and he came and sat beside her, and put his arm
round her waist as he had done then.  "I have thought much of what the
archdeacon has said, and of what this paper says; and I do believe I
have no right to be here."

"No right to be warden of the hospital, papa?"

"No right to be warden with eight hundred a year; no right to be
warden with such a house as this; no right to spend in luxury money
that was intended for charity.  Mr Bold may do as he pleases about his
suit, but I hope he will not abandon it for my sake."

Poor Eleanor! this was hard upon her.  Was it for this she had made
her great resolve!  For this that she had laid aside her quiet
demeanour, and taken upon her the rants of a tragedy heroine!  One
may work and not for thanks, but yet feel hurt at not receiving them;
and so it was with Eleanor: one may be disinterested in one's good
actions, and yet feel discontented that they are not recognised.
Charity may be given with the left hand so privily that the right hand
does not know it, and yet the left hand may regret to feel that it has
no immediate reward.  Eleanor had had no wish to burden her father
with a weight of obligation, and yet she had looked forward to much
delight from the knowledge that she had freed him from his sorrows:
now such hopes were entirely over: all that she had done was of no
avail; she had humbled herself to Bold in vain; the evil was utterly
beyond her power to cure!

She had thought also how gently she would whisper to her father all
that her lover had said to her about herself, and how impossible she
had found it to reject him: and then she had anticipated her father's
kindly kiss and close embrace as he gave his sanction to her love.
Alas! she could say nothing of this now.  In speaking of Mr Bold, her
father put him aside as one whose thoughts and sayings and acts could
be of no moment.  Gentle reader, did you ever feel yourself snubbed?
Did you ever, when thinking much of your own importance, find yourself
suddenly reduced to a nonentity?  Such was Eleanor's feeling now.

"They shall not put forward this plea on my behalf," continued the
warden.  "Whatever may be the truth of the matter, that at any rate is
not true; and the man who wrote that article is right in saying that
such a plea is revolting to an honest mind.  I will go up to London,
my dear, and see these lawyers myself, and if no better excuse can be
made for me than that, I and the hospital will part."

"But the archdeacon, papa?"

"I can't help it, my dear; there are some things which a man cannot
bear:--I cannot bear that;" and he put his hand upon the newspaper.

"But will the archdeacon go with you?"

To tell the truth, Mr Harding had made up his mind to steal a march
upon the archdeacon.  He was aware that he could take no steps without
informing his dread son-in-law, but he had resolved that he would send
out a note to Plumstead Episcopi detailing his plans, but that the
messenger should not leave Barchester till he himself had started
for London; so that he might be a day before the doctor, who, he had
no doubt, would follow him.  In that day, if he had luck, he might
arrange it all; he might explain to Sir Abraham that he, as warden,
would have nothing further to do with the defence about to be set up;
he might send in his official resignation to his friend the bishop,
and so make public the whole transaction, that even the doctor would
not be able to undo what he had done.  He knew too well the doctor's
strength and his own weakness to suppose he could do this, if they
both reached London together; indeed, he would never be able to get to
London, if the doctor knew of his intended journey in time to prevent
it.

"No, I think not," said he.  "I think I shall start before the
archdeacon could be ready;--I shall go early to-morrow morning."

"That will be best, papa," said Eleanor, showing that her father's
ruse was appreciated.

"Why yes, my love.  The fact is, I wish to do all this before the
archdeacon can--can interfere.  There is a great deal of truth in
all he says;--he argues very well, and I can't always answer him;
but there is an old saying, Nelly: 'Everyone knows where his own
shoe pinches!'  He'll say that I want moral courage, and strength of
character, and power of endurance, and it's all true; but I'm sure I
ought not to remain here, if I have nothing better to put forward than
a quibble: so, Nelly, we shall have to leave this pretty place."

Eleanor's face brightened up, as she assured her father how cordially
she agreed with him.

"True, my love," said he, now again quite happy and at ease in his
manner.  "What good to us is this place or all the money, if we are to
be ill-spoken of?"

"Oh, papa, I am so glad!"

"My darling child!  It did cost me a pang at first, Nelly, to think
that you should lose your pretty drawing-room, and your ponies, and
your garden: the garden will be the worst of all;--but there is a
garden at Crabtree, a very pretty garden."

Crabtree Parva was the name of the small living which Mr Harding had
held as a minor canon, and which still belonged to him.  It was only
worth some eighty pounds a year, and a small house and glebe, all
of which were now handed over to Mr Harding's curate; but it was to
Crabtree glebe that Mr Harding thought of retiring.  This parish must
not be mistaken for that other living, Crabtree Canonicorum, as it is
called.  Crabtree Canonicorum is a very nice thing; there are only two
hundred parishioners; there are four hundred acres of glebe; and the
great and small tithes, which both go to the rector, are worth four
hundred pounds a year more.  Crabtree Canonicorum is in the gift of
the dean and chapter, and is at this time possessed by the Honourable
and Reverend Dr Vesey Stanhope, who also fills the prebendal stall
of Goosegorge in Barchester Chapter, and holds the united rectory of
Eiderdown and Stogpingum, or Stoke Pinquium, as it should be written.
This is the same Dr Vesey Stanhope whose hospitable villa on the Lake
of Como is so well known to the _élite_ of English travellers, and
whose collection of Lombard butterflies is supposed to be unique.

"Yes," said the warden, musing, "there is a very pretty garden at
Crabtree;--but I shall be sorry to disturb poor Smith." Smith was the
curate of Crabtree, a gentleman who was maintaining a wife and half a
dozen children on the income arising from his profession.

Eleanor assured her father that, as far as she was concerned, she
could leave her house and her ponies without a single regret.  She was
only so happy that he was going--going where he would escape all this
dreadful turmoil.

"But we will take the music, my dear."

G. sits, apparently buried in deep thought.

"What ho!" he cries, looking up with a start.

"My liege," says the sandwich-board man--I mean the Delegate, "I bring
hither the address of the Possilpark, Lambhill, Dykehead,
Camburnathen, Wishaw, Dalbeattie, Catrine, and Sorn Liberal and
Radical Association. Will I read it?"
"I think not," said ROSEBERY, quietly, but firmly, and the Delegate,
handing the red thing to Mr.

G., passed on.

Mr.

G. smiling and bowing; audience applauded; next man comes.
_He's_ from the Duntocher, Faifley, Slamannan, Cockpen, Pennicuik,
Clackmannan, Carnoustie, Kirkintilloch, and Lenzie Junior Liberal
Association.

He also wants to read the Address, but is mercifully hustled off,
and the line, ever emerging from L. of stage, crosses, and passes on.

At other side, PAT CAMPBELL waiting; a little anxious lest anything
should go wrong to spoil his carefully-devised plan.

But everything went well.

"Get ye away now," PAT whispered in ear of the man from Possilpark,
&c.

Possilpark, &c., at the clue, darted round rear of stage; got round
in good time to L.; fell into line, and was ready to come on again.

Same with the rest. Immense success! At the end of first three-quarters
of an hour, PAT CAMPBELL arranged a block; pressure of innumerable
Delegates so great, doncha, couldn't move off the stage in time.
This gave opportunity for two of the stoutest burghers to go through
quick change; reappeared, dressed in kilts. This fairly fetched
down house.
"The interminable procession," as ROSEBERY slyly called it, might
have gone on till now, so perfect were the arrangements. But there
was some talk of Mr. G. making a speech, and, at end of hour and
fifty minutes the last Delegate slowly crossed in front of delighted
audience, handed his red _bâton_ to Mr.Bold left the
office which he had latterly so much frequented, shaking the dust from
off his feet; and before he was down the stairs, an edict had already
gone forth for the preparation of the bill.

He next thought of the newspapers.  The case had been taken up by more
than one; and he was well aware that the keynote had been sounded by
_The Jupiter_.  He had been very intimate with Tom Towers, and had
often discussed with him the affairs of the hospital.  Bold could
not say that the articles in that paper had been written at his own
instigation.  He did not even know, as a fact, that they had been
written by his friend.  Tom Towers had never said that such a view of
the case, or such a side in the dispute, would be taken by the paper
with which he was connected.  Very discreet in such matters was Tom
Towers, and altogether indisposed to talk loosely of the concerns
of that mighty engine of which it was his high privilege to move
in secret some portion.  Nevertheless Bold believed that to him
were owing those dreadful words which had caused such panic at
Barchester,--and he conceived himself bound to prevent their
repetition.  With this view he betook himself from the attorneys'
office to that laboratory where, with amazing chemistry, Tom Towers
compounded thunderbolts for the destruction of all that is evil, and
for the furtherance of all that is good, in this and other
hemispheres.

Who has not heard of Mount Olympus,--that high abode of all the powers
of type, that favoured seat of the great goddess Pica, that wondrous
habitation of gods and devils, from whence, with ceaseless hum of
steam and never-ending flow of Castalian ink, issue forth fifty
thousand nightly edicts for the governance of a subject nation?

Velvet and gilding do not make a throne, nor gold and jewels a
sceptre.  It is a throne because the most exalted one sits there,--and
a sceptre because the most mighty one wields it.  So it is with Mount
Olympus.  Should a stranger make his way thither at dull noonday, or
during the sleepy hours of the silent afternoon, he would find no
acknowledged temple of power and beauty, no fitting fane for the
great Thunderer, no proud façades and pillared roofs to support
the dignity of this greatest of earthly potentates.  To the
outward and uninitiated eye, Mount Olympus is a somewhat humble
spot,--undistinguished, unadorned,--nay, almost mean.  It stands
alone, as it were, in a mighty city, close to the densest throng
of men, but partaking neither of the noise nor the crowd; a small
secluded, dreary spot, tenanted, one would say, by quite unambitious
people at the easiest rents.  "Is this Mount Olympus?" asks the
unbelieving stranger.  Search the eight volumes of the "Recherches sur
les Ossemens Fossiles" from cover to cover, and nothing but the
application of the method of Zadig will be found in the arguments by
which a fragment of a skeleton is made to reveal the characters
of the animal to which it belonged.

There is one well-known case which may represent all. It is an
excellent illustration of Cuvier's sagacity, and he evidently
takes some pride in telling his story about it. A split slab
of stone arrived from the quarries of Montmartre, the two halves of
which contained the greater part of the skeleton of a small animal.
On careful examinations of the characters of the teeth and of the
lower jaw, which happened to be exposed, Cuvier assured himself
that they presented such a very close resemblance to the corresponding
parts in the living opossums that he at once assigned the fossil
to that genus.

Now the opossums are unlike most mammals in that they possess two bones
attached to the fore part of the pelvis, which are commonly called
"marsupial bones." The name is a misnomer, originally conferred
because it was thought that these bones have something to do with the
support of the pouch, or marsupium, with which some, but not all, of
the opossums are provided. As a matter of fact, they have nothing to
do with the support of the pouch, and they exist as much in those
opossums which have no pouches as in those which possess them. In truth,
no one knows what the use of these bones may be, nor has any valid
theory of their physiological import yet been suggested. And
if we have no knowledge of the physiological importance of the bones
themselves, it is obviously absurd to pretend that we are able
to give physiological reasons why the presence of these bones is
associated with certain peculiarities of the teeth and of the jaws.
If any one knows why four molar teeth and an inflected angle of the
jaw are very generally found along with marsupial bones, he has not yet
communicated that knowledge to the world.

If, however, Zadig was right in concluding from the likeness of the
hoof-prints which he observed to be a horse's that the creature which
made them had a tail like that of a horse, Cuvier, seeing that the teeth
and jaw of his fossil were just like those of an opossum, had the
same right to conclude that the pelvis would also be like an
opossum's; and so strong was his conviction that this retrospective
prophecy, about an animal which he had never seen before, and which
had been dead and buried for millions of years, would be verified,
that he went to work upon the slab which contained the pelvis in
confident expectation of finding and laying bare the "marsupial
bones," to the satisfaction of some persons whom he had invited to
witness their disinterment.

Away with majorities
in the House of Commons, with verdicts from judicial bench given after
much delay, with doubtful laws, and the fallible attempts of humanity!
Does not _The Jupiter_, coming forth daily with fifty thousand
impressions full of unerring decision on every mortal subject, set all
matters sufficiently at rest?  Is not Tom Towers here, able to guide
us and willing?

Yes indeed, able and willing to guide all men in all things, so
long as he is obeyed as autocrat should be obeyed,--with undoubting
submission: only let not ungrateful ministers seek other colleagues
than those whom Tom Towers may approve; let church and state, law and
physic, commerce and agriculture, the arts of war, and the arts of
peace, all listen and obey, and all will be made perfect.  Has not Tom
Towers an all-seeing eye?  From the diggings of Australia to those of
California, right round the habitable globe, does he not know, watch,
and chronicle the doings of everyone?  From a bishopric in New Zealand
to an unfortunate director of a North-west passage, is he not the only
fit judge of capability?  From the sewers of London to the Central
Railway of India,--from the palaces of St Petersburg to the cabins of
Connaught, nothing can escape him.  Britons have but to read, to obey,
and be blessed.  None but the fools doubt the wisdom of _The Jupiter_;
none but the mad dispute its facts.

No established religion has ever been without its unbelievers, even
in the country where it is the most firmly fixed; no creed has been
without scoffers; no church has so prospered as to free itself
entirely from dissent.  There are those who doubt _The Jupiter_!
They live and breathe the upper air, walking here unscathed, though
scorned,--men, born of British mothers and nursed on English milk, who
scruple not to say that Mount Olympus has its price, that Tom Towers
can be bought for gold!

Such is Mount Olympus, the mouthpiece of all the wisdom of this great
country.  It may probably be said that no place in this 19th century
is more worthy of notice.  No treasury mandate armed with the
signatures of all the government has half the power of one of those
broad sheets, which fly forth from hence so abundantly, armed with no
signature at all.

Some great man, some mighty peer,--we'll say a noble duke,--retires to
rest feared and honoured by all his countrymen,--fearless himself; if
not a good man, at any rate a mighty man,--too mighty to care much
what men may say about his want of virtue.  He rises in the morning
degraded, mean, and miserable; an object of men's scorn, anxious only
to retire as quickly as may be to some German obscurity, some unseen
Italian privacy, or indeed, anywhere out of sight.  What has made this
awful change? what has so afflicted him?  An article has appeared in
_The Jupiter_; some fifty lines of a narrow column have destroyed all
his grace's equanimity, and banished him for ever from the world.
No man knows who wrote the bitter words; the clubs talk confusedly of
the matter, whispering to each other this and that name; while Tom
Towers walks quietly along Pall Mall, with his coat buttoned close
against the east wind, as though he were a mortal man, and not a god
dispensing thunderbolts from Mount Olympus.

It was not to Mount Olympus that our friend Bold betook himself.  He
had before now wandered round that lonely spot, thinking how grand a
thing it was to write articles for _The Jupiter_; considering within
himself whether by any stretch of the powers within him he could ever
come to such distinction; wondering how Tom Towers would take any
little humble offering of his talents; calculating that Tom Towers
himself must have once had a beginning, have once doubted as to
his own success.  Towers could not have been born a writer in _The
Jupiter_.  With such ideas, half ambitious and half awe-struck, had
Bold regarded the silent-looking workshop of the gods; but he had
never yet by word or sign attempted to influence the slightest word
of his unerring friend.  On such a course was he now intent; and not
without much inward palpitation did he betake himself to the quiet
abode of wisdom, where Tom Towers was to be found o' mornings inhaling
ambrosia and sipping nectar in the shape of toast and tea.

Not far removed from Mount Olympus, but somewhat nearer to the blessed
regions of the West, is the most favoured abode of Themis.  Washed by
the rich tide which now passes from the towers of Cæsar to Barry's
halls of eloquence; and again back, with new offerings of a city's
tribute, from the palaces of peers to the mart of merchants, stand
those quiet walls which Law has delighted to honour by its presence.
What a world within a world is the Temple! how quiet are its
"entangled walks," as someone lately has called them, and yet how
close to the densest concourse of humanity! how gravely respectable
its sober alleys, though removed but by a single step from the
profanity of the Strand and the low iniquity of Fleet Street!  Old
St Dunstan, with its bell-smiting bludgeoners, has been removed; the
ancient shops with their faces full of pleasant history are passing
away one by one; the bar itself is to go--its doom has been pronounced
by _The Jupiter_; rumour tells us of some huge building that is to
appear in these latitudes dedicated to law, subversive of the courts
of Westminster, and antagonistic to the Rolls and Lincoln's Inn; but
nothing yet threatens the silent beauty of the Temple: it is the
mediæval court of the metropolis.

Here, on the choicest spot of this choice ground, stands a lofty row
of chambers, looking obliquely upon the sullied Thames; before the
windows, the lawn of the Temple Gardens stretches with that dim yet
delicious verdure so refreshing to the eyes of Londoners.  If doomed
to live within the thickest of London smoke you would surely say that
that would be your chosen spot.  Yes, you, you whom I now address, my
dear, middle-aged bachelor friend, can nowhere be so well domiciled
as here.  No one here will ask whether you are out or at home; alone
or with friends; here no Sabbatarian will investigate your Sundays,
no censorious landlady will scrutinise your empty bottle, no
valetudinarian neighbour will complain of late hours.  If you love
books, to what place are books so suitable?  The whole spot is
redolent of typography.  Would you worship the Paphian goddess, the
groves of Cyprus are not more taciturn than those of the Temple.
Wit and wine are always here, and always together; the revels of the
Temple are as those of polished Greece, where the wildest worshipper
of Bacchus never forgot the dignity of the god whom he adored. Where
can retirement be so complete as here? where can you be so sure of all
the pleasures of society?

It was here that Tom Towers lived, and cultivated with eminent success
the tenth Muse who now governs the periodical press.  But let it not
be supposed that his chambers were such, or so comfortless, as are
frequently the gaunt abodes of legal aspirants.  Four chairs, a
half-filled deal book-case with hangings of dingy green baize, an old
office table covered with dusty papers, which are not moved once in
six months, and an older Pembroke brother with rickety legs, for all
daily uses; a despatcher for the preparation of lobsters and coffee,
and an apparatus for the cooking of toast and mutton chops; such
utensils and luxuries as these did not suffice for the well-being of
Tom Towers.  He indulged in four rooms on the first floor, each of
which was furnished, if not with the splendour, with probably more
than the comfort of Stafford House.  Every addition that science
and art have lately made to the luxuries of modern life was to be
found there.  The room in which he usually sat was surrounded by
book-shelves carefully filled; nor was there a volume there which was
not entitled to its place in such a collection, both by its intrinsic
worth and exterior splendour: a pretty portable set of steps in one
corner of the room showed that those even on the higher shelves were
intended for use.  The chamber contained but two works of art:--the
one, an admirable bust of Sir Robert Peel, by Power, declared the
individual politics of our friend; and the other, a singularly long
figure of a female devotee, by Millais, told equally plainly the
school of art to which he was addicted.  This picture was not hung,
as pictures usually are, against the wall; there was no inch of wall
vacant for such a purpose: it had a stand or desk erected for its own
accommodation; and there on her pedestal, framed and glazed, stood
the devotional lady looking intently at a lily as no lady ever looked
before.

Our modern artists, whom we style Pre-Raphaelites, have delighted
to go back, not only to the finish and peculiar manner, but also to
the subjects of the early painters.  It is impossible to give them
too much praise for the elaborate perseverance with which they have
equalled the minute perfections of the masters from whom they take
their inspiration: nothing probably can exceed the painting of some of
these latter-day pictures.  It is, however, singular into what faults
they fall as regards their subjects: they are not quite content to
take the old stock groups,--a Sebastian with his arrows, a Lucia with
her eyes in a dish, a Lorenzo with a gridiron, or the Virgin with two
children.  But they are anything but happy in their change.  As a
rule, no figure should be drawn in a position which it is impossible
to suppose any figure should maintain.  The patient endurance of St
Sebastian, the wild ecstasy of St John in the Wilderness, the maternal
love of the Virgin, are feelings naturally portrayed by a fixed
posture; but the lady with the stiff back and bent neck, who looks at
her flower, and is still looking from hour to hour, gives us an idea
of pain without grace, and abstraction without a cause.

It was easy, from his rooms, to see that Tom Towers was a Sybarite,
though by no means an idle one.  He was lingering over his last cup of
tea, surrounded by an ocean of newspapers, through which he had been
swimming, when John Bold's card was brought in by his tiger.  This
tiger never knew that his master was at home, though he often knew
that he was not, and thus Tom Towers was never invaded but by his
own consent.  On this occasion, after twisting the card twice in his
fingers, he signified to his attendant imp that he was visible; and
the inner door was unbolted, and our friend announced.

I have before said that he of _The Jupiter_ and John Bold were
intimate.  There was no very great difference in their ages, for
Towers was still considerably under forty; and when Bold had been
attending the London hospitals, Towers, who was not then the great man
that he had since become, had been much with him.  Then they had often
discussed together the objects of their ambition and future prospects;
then Tom Towers was struggling hard to maintain himself, as a
briefless barrister, by shorthand reporting for any of the papers that
would engage him; then he had not dared to dream of writing leaders
for _The Jupiter_, or canvassing the conduct of Cabinet ministers.
Things had altered since that time: the briefless barrister was still
briefless, but he now despised briefs: could he have been sure of a
judge's seat, he would hardly have left his present career.  It is
true he wore no ermine, bore no outward marks of a world's respect;
but with what a load of inward importance was he charged!  It is true
his name appeared in no large capitals; on no wall was chalked up "Tom
Towers for ever;"--"Freedom of the Press and Tom Towers;" but what
member of Parliament had half his power?  It is true that in far-off
provinces men did not talk daily of Tom Towers but they read _The
Jupiter_, and acknowledged that without _The Jupiter_ life was not
worth having.  This kind of hidden but still conscious glory suited
the nature of the man.  He loved to sit silent in a corner of his club
and listen to the loud chattering of politicians, and to think how
they all were in his power;--how he could smite the loudest of them,
were it worth his while to raise his pen for such a purpose.  He loved
to watch the great men of whom he daily wrote, and flatter himself
that he was greater than any of them.  Each of them was responsible to
his country, each of them must answer if inquired into, each of them
must endure abuse with good humour, and insolence without anger.  But
to whom was he, Tom Towers, responsible?  No one could insult him;
no one could inquire into him.  He could speak out withering words,
and no one could answer him: ministers courted him, though perhaps
they knew not his name; bishops feared him; judges doubted their own
verdicts unless he confirmed them; and generals, in their councils of
war, did not consider more deeply what the enemy would do, than what
_The Jupiter_ would say. Tom Towers never boasted of _The Jupiter_;
he scarcely ever named the paper even to the most intimate of his
friends; he did not even wish to be spoken of as connected with it;
but he did not the less value his privileges, or think the less of his
own importance.  It is probable that Tom Towers considered himself
the most powerful man in Europe; and so he walked on from day to day,
studiously striving to look a man, but knowing within his breast that
he was a god.


Chapter XV

TOM TOWERS, DR ANTICANT, AND MR SENTIMENT


"Ah, Bold! how are you?  You haven't breakfasted?"

"Oh yes, hours ago.  And how are you?"

When one Esquimau meets another, do the two, as an invariable rule,
ask after each other's health? is it inherent in all human nature to
make this obliging inquiry?  Did any reader of this tale ever meet
any friend or acquaintance without asking some such question, and did
anyone ever listen to the reply?  Sometimes a studiously courteous
questioner will show so much thought in the matter as to answer it
himself, by declaring that had he looked at you he needn't have asked;
meaning thereby to signify that you are an absolute personification of
health: but such persons are only those who premeditate small effects.

"I suppose you're busy?" inquired Bold.

"Why, yes, rather;--or I should say rather not.  If I have a leisure
hour in the day, this is it."

"I want to ask you if you can oblige me in a certain matter."

Towers understood in a moment, from the tone of his friend's voice,
that the certain matter referred to the newspaper.  He smiled, and
nodded his head, but made no promise.

"You know this lawsuit that I've been engaged in," said Bold.

Tom Towers intimated that he was aware of the action which was pending
about the hospital.

"Well, I've abandoned it."

Tom Towers merely raised his eyebrows, thrust his hands into his
trowsers pockets, and waited for his friend to proceed.

"Yes, I've given it up.  The covenants of the Almighty, whether the
old covenant or the new, denounce such unholy pretensions.

To these laws did they of old refer, who maintained the African trade.
Such treaties did they cite, and not untruly; for, by one shameful
compact, you bartered the glories of Blenheim for the traffic in
blood.

Yet, in despite of law and of treaty, that infernal traffic is now
destroyed, and its votaries put to death like other pirates. How came
this change to pass? Not, assuredly, by Parliament leading the way;
but the country at length awoke; the indignation of the people was
kindled; it descended in thunder, and smote the traffic, and
scattered its guilty profit to the winds.

Now, then, let the planters beware,--let their assemblies beware,--let
the government at home beware,--let the Parliament beware! The same
country is once more awake,--awake to the condition of negro slavery;
the same indignation kindles in the bosom of the same people; the
same cloud is gathering that annihilated the slave-trade; and if it
shall descend again, they, on whom its crash may fall, will not
be destroyed before I have warned them; but I pray that their
destruction may turn away from us the more terrible judgments of God!

Lord Brougham.

LXX.

THE TEACHERS OF MANKIND.

There is nothing which the adversaries of improvement are more wont to
make themselves merry with than what is termed the "march of intellect;"
and here I will confess, that I think, as far as the phrase goes,
they are in the right. It is a very absurd, because a very incorrect
expression. It is little calculated to describe the operation in
question.

It does not picture an image at all resembling the proceedings of the
true friends of mankind. It much more resembles the progress of the
enemy to all improvement. The conqueror moves in a march. He stalks
onward with the "pride, pomp, and circumstance of warp,"--banners
flying--shouts rending the air--guns thundering--and martial music
pealing, to drown the shrieks of the wounded, and the lamentations
for the slain.

Not thus the schoolmaster, in his peaceful vocation. He meditates and
prepares in secret the plans which are to bless mankind; he slowly
gathers round him those who are to further their execution, he quietly,
though firmly, advances in his humble path, laboring steadily, but
calmly, till he has opened to the light all the recesses of ignorance,
and torn up by the roots the weeds of vice. His is a progress not to
be compared with anything like a march; but it leads to a far more
brilliant triumph, and to laurels more imperishable than the destroyer
of his species, the scourge of the world, ever won.

Such men--men deserving the glorious title of Teachers of Mankind--I
have found, laboring conscientiously, though, perhaps obscurely,
in their blessed vocation, wherever I have gone. I have found them,
and shared their fellowship, among the daring, the ambitious, the
ardent, the indomitably active French; I have found them among the
persevering, resolute, industrious Swiss; I have found them among
the laborious, the warmhearted, the enthusiastic Germans; I have found
them among the high-minded, but enslaved Italians; and in our own
country, God be thanked, their numbers everywhere abound, and are
every day increasing.

Their calling is high and holy; their fame is the property of nations;
their renown will fill the earth in after-ages, in proportion as it
sounds not far off in their own times. Each one of those great
teachers of the world, possessing his soul in peace, performs his
appointed course; awaits in patience the fulfillment of the premises;
and, resting from his labors, bequeathed his memory to the generation
whom his works have blessed, and sleeps under the humble but not
inglorious epitaph, commemorating it one in whom mankind lost a
friend, and no man got rid of an enemy." Lord Brougham.

LXXI.

THE GREATNESS OF WASHINGTON.

Great he was, preëminently great, whether we regard him sustaining alone
the whole weight of campaigns all but desperate, or gloriously
terminating a just warfare by his resources and his courage; presiding
over the jarring elements of his political council, alike deaf to the
storms of all extremes, or directing the formation of a new government
for a great people, the first time that so vast an experiment had
ever been tried by man; or, really, retiring from the supreme power
to which his virtue had raised him over the nation he had created,
and whose destinies he had guided as long as his aid was required,--retiring
with the veneration of all parties, of all nations, of all mankind,
in order that the rights of men might be conserved, and that his
example never might be appealed to by vulgar tyrants.Truly, a cutting of blocks with fine razors
while we scrape our chins so uncomfortably with rusty knives!  Oh, my
political economist, master of supply and demand, division of labour
and high pressure--oh, my loud-speaking friend, tell me, if so much
be in you, what is the demand for poets in these kingdoms of Queen
Victoria, and what the vouchsafed supply?"

This was all very well: this gave us some hope.  We might do better
with our next poet, when we got one; and though the partridges might
not be abandoned, something could perhaps be done as to the poachers.
We were unwilling, however, to take lessons in politics from so
misty a professor; and when he came to tell us that the heroes of
Westminster were naught, we began to think that he had written enough.
His attack upon despatch boxes was not thought to have much in it;
but as it is short, the doctor shall again be allowed to speak his
sentiments.


   Could utmost ingenuity in the management of red tape avail
   anything to men lying gasping,--we may say, all but dead;
   could despatch boxes with never-so-much velvet lining and
   Chubb's patent be of comfort to a people _in extremis_, I
   also, with so many others, would, with parched tongue, call
   on the name of Lord John Russell; or, my brother, at your
   advice, on Lord Aberdeen; or, my cousin, on Lord Derby, at
   yours; being, with my parched tongue, indifferent to such
   matters.  'Tis all one.  Oh, Derby!  Oh, Gladstone!  Oh,
   Palmerston!  Oh, Lord John!  Each comes running with serene
   face and despatch box.  Vain physicians! though there were
   hosts of such, no despatch box will cure this disorder!
   What! are there other doctors' new names, disciples who
   have not burdened their souls with tape?  Well, let us call
   again.  Oh, Disraeli, great oppositionist, man of the bitter
   brow! or, Oh, Molesworth, great reformer, thou who promisest
   Utopia.  They come; each with that serene face, and each,--
   alas, me! alas, my country!--each with a despatch box!

   Oh, the serenity of Downing Street!

   My brothers, when hope was over on the battle-field, when no
   dimmest chance of victory remained, the ancient Roman could
   hide his face within his toga, and die gracefully.  Can you
   and I do so now?  If so, 'twere best for us; if not, oh my
   brothers, we must die disgracefully, for hope of life and
   victory I see none left to us in this world below.  I for
   one cannot trust much to serene face and despatch box!


There might be truth in this, there might be depth of reasoning;
but Englishmen did not see enough in the argument to induce them
to withdraw their confidence from the present arrangements of the
government, and Dr Anticant's monthly pamphlet on the decay of the
world did not receive so much attention as his earlier works.  He did
not confine himself to politics in these publications, but roamed at
large over all matters of public interest, and found everything bad.
According to him nobody was true, and not only nobody, but nothing; a
man could not take off his hat to a lady without telling a lie;--the
lady would lie again in smiling.  The ruffles of the gentleman's
shirt would be fraught with deceit, and the lady's flounces full of
falsehood.  Was ever anything more severe than that attack of his on
chip bonnets, or the anathemas with which he endeavoured to dust the
powder out of the bishops' wigs?

The pamphlet which Tom Towers now pushed across the table was entitled
"Modern Charity," and was written with the view of proving how much in
the way of charity was done by our predecessors,--how little by the
present age; and it ended by a comparison between ancient and modern
times, very little to the credit of the latter.

"Look at this," said Towers, getting up and turning over the pages of
the pamphlet, and pointing to a passage near the end.  "Your friend
the warden, who is so little selfish, won't like that, I fear."  Bold
read as follows--


   Heavens, what a sight!  Let us with eyes wide open see the
   godly man of four centuries since, the man of the dark ages;
   let us see how he does his godlike work, and, again, how the
   godly man of these latter days does his.

   Shall we say that the former is one walking painfully
   through the world, regarding, as a prudent man, his worldly
   work, prospering in it as a diligent man will prosper, but
   always with an eye to that better treasure to which thieves
   do not creep in?  Is there not much nobility in that old
   man, as, leaning on his oaken staff, he walks down the High
   Street of his native town, and receives from all courteous
   salutation and acknowledgment of his worth?  A noble old
   man, my august inhabitants of Belgrave Square and such like
   vicinity,--a very noble old man, though employed no better
   than in the wholesale carding of wool.

   This carding of wool, however, did in those days bring with
   it much profit, so that our ancient friend, when dying,
   was declared, in whatever slang then prevailed, to cut up
   exceeding well.  For sons and daughters there was ample
   sustenance with assistance of due industry; for friends and
   relatives some relief for grief at this great loss; for aged
   dependents comfort in declining years.  This was much for
   one old man to get done in that dark fifteenth century.  But
   this was not all: coming generations of poor wool-carders
   should bless the name of this rich one; and a hospital
   should be founded and endowed with his wealth for the
   feeding of such of the trade as could not, by diligent
   carding, any longer duly feed themselves.

   'Twas thus that an old man in the fifteenth century did his
   godlike work to the best of his power, and not ignobly, as
   appears to me.

   We will now take our godly man of latter days.  He shall no
   longer be a wool-carder, for such are not now men of mark.
   We will suppose him to be one of the best of the good, one
   who has lacked no opportunities.  Our old friend was, after
   all, but illiterate; our modern friend shall be a man
   educated in all seemly knowledge; he shall, in short, be
   that blessed being,--a clergyman of the Church of England!

   And now, in what perfectest manner does he in this lower
   world get his godlike work done and put out of hand?
   Heavens! in the strangest of manners.  Oh, my brother! in a
   manner not at all to be believed, but by the most minute
   testimony of eyesight.  He does it by the magnitude of his
   appetite,--by the power of his gorge; his only occupation is
   to swallow the bread prepared with so much anxious care for
   these impoverished carders of wool,--that, and to sing
   indifferently through his nose once in the week some psalm
   more or less long,--the shorter the better, we should be
   inclined to say.

   Oh, my civilised friends!--great Britons that never will be
   slaves, men advanced to infinite state of freedom and
   knowledge of good and evil;--tell me, will you, what
   becoming monument you will erect to an highly-educated
   clergyman of the Church of England?


Bold certainly thought that his friend would not like that: he could
not conceive anything that he would like less than this.  To what a
world of toil and trouble had he, Bold, given rise by his indiscreet
attack upon the hospital!

"You see," said Towers, "that this affair has been much talked of, and
the public are with you.  I am sorry you should give the matter up.
Consider the extent of its territory, its increasing and happy
population, its advance in arts which render life agreeable, and
the sciences which elevate the mind!

See education spreading the lights of religion, morality, and general
information into every cottage in this wide extent of our Territories
and States! Behold it, as the asylum where the wretched and the oppressed
find a refuge and support!

Look on this picture of happiness and honor, and say "We, too, are
citizens of America! Carolina is one of these proud States; her
arms have defended, her best blood has cemented this happy Union!"
And then add, if you can, with out horror and remorse, "This happy
Union we will dissolve this picture of peace and prosperity we will
deface--this free intercourse we will interrupt--these fertile
fields we will deluge with blood--the protection of that glorious
flag we renounce--the very name of Americans we discard!"

And for what, mistaken men! for what do you throw away these inestimable
blessings--for what would you exchange your share in the advantages
and honor of the Union?

For the dream of a separate independence--a dream interrupted by bloody
conflicts with your neighbors, and a vile dependence on a foreign
power.
A. Jackson.

L.

THE SAME CONCLUDED.

There is yet time to show, that the descendants of the Pinckneys, the
Sumters the Rutledges, and of the thousand other names which adorn the
pages of your Revolutionary history, will not abandon that Union to
support which so many of them fought, and bled, and died. I
adjure you, as you honor their memory, as you love the cause of freedom
to which they dedicated their lives, as you prize the peace of
your country, the lives of its best citizens, and your own fair
fame, to retrace your steps.

Snatch from the archives of your State the disorganizing edict of its
convention,--bid its members to reassemble and promulgate the decided
expression of your will, to remain in the path which alone can conduct
you to safety, prosperity, and honor;--tell them that compared to
disunion, all other evils are light, because that brings with it an
accumulation of all;--declare that you will never take the field,
unless the star-spangled banner of your country shall float over
you; that you will not be stigmatized when dead, and dishonored and
scorned while you live, as the authors of the first attack on the
Constitution of your country,--its destroyers you cannot be.

Fellow-citizens, the momentous case is before you. On your undivided
support of the Government depends the decision of the great question
it involves: whether our sacred Union will be preserved, and the
blessings it secures to us as one people shall be perpetuated.

Mr Harding has felt
what it has said deeply; and I thought that if I could explain to you
that he personally has not been to blame, these articles might be
discontinued."

How calmly impassive was Tom Towers' face, as this innocent little
proposition was made!  Had Bold addressed himself to the doorposts in
Mount Olympus, they would have shown as much outward sign of assent or
dissent.  His quiescence was quite admirable; his discretion certainly
more than human.

"My dear fellow," said he, when Bold had quite done speaking, "I
really cannot answer for _The Jupiter_."

"But if you saw that these articles were unjust, I think that You
would endeavour to put a stop to them.  Of course nobody doubts that
you could, if you chose."

"Nobody and everybody are always very kind, but unfortunately are
generally very wrong."

"Come, come, Towers," said Bold, plucking up his courage, and
remembering that for Eleanor's sake he was bound to make his best
exertion; "I have no doubt in my own mind but that you wrote the
articles yourself, and very well written they were: it will be a great
favour if you will in future abstain from any personal allusion to
poor Harding."

"My dear Bold," said Tom Towers, "I have a sincere regard for you.
I have known you for many years, and value your friendship; I hope
you will let me explain to you, without offence, that none who
are connected with the public press can with propriety listen to
interference."

"Interference!" said Bold, "I don't want to interfere."

"Ah, but, my dear fellow, you do; what else is it?  You think that I
am able to keep certain remarks out of a newspaper.  Your information
is probably incorrect, as most public gossip on such subjects is; but,
at any rate, you think I have such power, and you ask me to use it:
now that is interference."

"Well, if you choose to call it so."

"And now suppose for a moment that I had this power, and used it as
you wish: isn't it clear that it would be a great abuse?  Certain men
are employed in writing for the public press; and if they are induced
either to write or to abstain from writing by private motives,
surely the public press would soon be of little value.  Look at the
recognised worth of different newspapers, and see if it does not
mainly depend on the assurance which the public feel that such a paper
is, or is not, independent.  You alluded to _The Jupiter_: surely you
cannot but see that the weight of _The Jupiter_ is too great to be
moved by any private request, even though it should be made to a much
more influential person than myself: you've only to think of this, and
you'll see that I am right."

The discretion of Tom Towers was boundless: there was no contradicting
what he said, no arguing against such propositions.  He took such high
ground that there was no getting on to it.  "The public is defrauded,"
said he, "whenever private considerations are allowed to have weight."
Quite true, thou greatest oracle of the middle of the nineteenth
century, thou sententious proclaimer of the purity of the press;--the
public is defrauded when it is purposely misled.  Poor public! how
often is it misled! against what a world of fraud has it to contend!

Bold took his leave, and got out of the room as quickly as he could,
inwardly denouncing his friend Tom Towers as a prig and a humbug.  "I
know he wrote those articles," said Bold to himself.  "I know he got
his information from me.  He was ready enough to take my word for
gospel when it suited his own views, and to set Mr Harding up before
the public as an impostor on no other testimony than my chance
conversation; but when I offer him real evidence opposed to his own
views, he tells me that private motives are detrimental to public
justice!  Confound his arrogance!  What is any public question but a
conglomeration of private interests?  What is any newspaper article
but an expression of the views taken by one side?  Truth! it takes an
age to ascertain the truth of any question!  The idea of Tom Towers
talking of public motives and purity of purpose!  Why, it wouldn't
give him a moment's uneasiness to change his politics to-morrow, if
the paper required it."

Such were John Bold's inward exclamations as he made his way out of
the quiet labyrinth of the Temple; and yet there was no position of
worldly power so coveted in Bold's ambition as that held by the man of
whom he was thinking.  It was the impregnability of the place which
made Bold so angry with the possessor of it, and it was the same
quality which made it appear so desirable.

Passing into the Strand, he saw in a bookseller's window an
announcement of the first number of "The Almshouse;" so he purchased a
copy, and hurrying back to his lodgings, proceeded to ascertain what
Mr Popular Sentiment had to say to the public on the subject which had
lately occupied so much of his own attention.

In former times great objects were attained by great work. When evils
were to be reformed, reformers set about their heavy task with grave
decorum and laborious argument.  An age was occupied in proving a
grievance, and philosophical researches were printed in folio pages,
which it took a life to write, and an eternity to read.  We get on
now with a lighter step, and quicker: ridicule is found to be more
convincing than argument, imaginary agonies touch more than true
sorrows, and monthly novels convince, when learned quartos fail to
do so.  If the world is to be set right, the work will be done by
shilling numbers.

Of all such reformers Mr Sentiment is the most powerful.  It is
incredible the number of evil practices he has put down: it is to
be feared he will soon lack subjects, and that when he has made the
working classes comfortable, and got bitter beer put into proper-sized
pint bottles, there will be nothing further for him left to do.  Mr
Sentiment is certainly a very powerful man, and perhaps not the less
so that his good poor people are so very good; his hard rich people
so very hard; and the genuinely honest so very honest.  Namby-pamby
in these days is not thrown away if it be introduced in the proper
quarters.  Divine peeresses are no longer interesting, though
possessed of every virtue; but a pattern peasant or an immaculate
manufacturing hero may talk as much twaddle as one of Mrs Ratcliffe's
heroines, and still be listened to.  Perhaps, however, Mr Sentiment's
great attraction is in his second-rate characters.  If his heroes and
heroines walk upon stilts, as heroes and heroines, I fear, ever must,
their attendant satellites are as natural as though one met them in
the street: they walk and talk like men and women, and live among our
friends a rattling, lively life; yes, live, and will live till the
names of their calling shall be forgotten in their own, and Buckett
and Mrs Gamp will be the only words left to us to signify a detective
police officer or a monthly nurse.

"The Almshouse" opened with a scene in a clergyman's house. Every
luxury to be purchased by wealth was described as being there: all the
appearances of household indulgence generally found amongst the most
self-indulgent of the rich were crowded into this abode.  Here the
reader was introduced to the demon of the book, the Mephistopheles of
the drama.  What story was ever written without a demon?  What novel,
what history, what work of any sort, what world, would be perfect
without existing principles both of good and evil?  The demon of "The
Almshouse" was the clerical owner of this comfortable abode.  He was
a man well stricken in years, but still strong to do evil: he was one
who looked cruelly out of a hot, passionate, bloodshot eye; who had a
huge red nose with a carbuncle, thick lips, and a great double, flabby
chin, which swelled out into solid substance, like a turkey-cock's
comb, when sudden anger inspired him: he had a hot, furrowed, low
brow, from which a few grizzled hairs were not yet rubbed off by
the friction of his handkerchief: he wore a loose unstarched white
handkerchief, black loose ill-made clothes, and huge loose shoes,
adapted to many corns and various bunions: his husky voice told
tales of much daily port wine, and his language was not so decorous
as became a clergyman.  Such was the master of Mr Sentiment's
"Almshouse."  He was a widower, but at present accompanied by two
daughters, and a thin and somewhat insipid curate.  One of the young
ladies was devoted to her father and the fashionable world, and she of
course was the favourite; the other was equally addicted to Puseyism
and the curate.

The second chapter of course introduced the reader to the more
especial inmates of the hospital.  Here were discovered eight old
men; and it was given to be understood that four vacancies remained
unfilled, through the perverse ill-nature of the clerical gentleman
with the double chin.  The state of these eight paupers was touchingly
dreadful: sixpence-farthing a day had been sufficient for their diet
when the almshouse was founded; and on sixpence-farthing a day were
they still doomed to starve, though food was four times as dear,
and money four times as plentiful.  It was shocking to find how the
conversation of these eight starved old men in their dormitory shamed
that of the clergyman's family in his rich drawing-room.  The absolute
words they uttered were not perhaps spoken in the purest English, and
it might be difficult to distinguish from their dialect to what part
of the country they belonged; the beauty of the sentiment, however,
amply atoned for the imperfection of the language; and it was really a
pity that these eight old men could not be sent through the country as
moral missionaries, instead of being immured and starved in that
wretched almshouse.

Bold finished the number; and as he threw it aside, he thought that
that at least had no direct appliance to Mr Harding, and that the
absurdly strong colouring of the picture would disenable the work from
doing either good or harm.  He was wrong.  The artist who paints for
the million must use glaring colours, as no one knew better than Mr
Sentiment when he described the inhabitants of his almshouse; and the
radical reform which has now swept over such establishments has owed
more to the twenty numbers of Mr Sentiment's novel, than to all the
true complaints which have escaped from the public for the last half
century.


Chapter XVI

A LONG DAY IN LONDON


The warden had to make use of all his very moderate powers of intrigue
to give his son-in-law the slip, and get out of Barchester without
being stopped on his road.  No schoolboy ever ran away from school
with more precaution and more dread of detection; no convict, slipping
down from a prison wall, ever feared to see the gaoler more entirely
than Mr Harding did to see his son-in-law as he drove up in the pony
carriage to the railway station, on the morning of his escape to
London.

The evening before he went he wrote a note to the archdeacon,
explaining that he should start on the morrow on his journey; that
it was his intention to see the attorney-general if possible, and to
decide on his future plans in accordance with what he heard from that
gentleman; he excused himself for giving Dr Grantly no earlier notice,
by stating that his resolve was very sudden; and having entrusted this
note to Eleanor, with the perfect, though not expressed, understanding
that it was to be sent over to Plumstead Episcopi without haste, he
took his departure.

He also prepared and carried with him a note for Sir Abraham
Haphazard, in which he stated his name, explaining that he was the
defendant in the case of "The Queen on behalf of the Wool-carders of
Barchester _v_. Trustees under the will of the late John Hiram," for
so was the suit denominated, and begged the illustrious and learned
gentleman to vouchsafe to him ten minutes' audience at any hour on the
next day.  Mr Harding calculated that for that one day he was safe;
his son-in-law, he had no doubt, would arrive in town by an early
train, but not early enough to reach the truant till he should have
escaped from his hotel after breakfast; and could he thus manage to
see the lawyer on that very day, the deed might be done before the
archdeacon could interfere.

On his arrival in town the warden drove, as was his wont, to the
Chapter Hotel and Coffee House, near St Paul's.  His visits to London
of late had not been frequent; but in those happy days when "Harding's
Church Music" was going through the press, he had been often there;
and as the publisher's house was in Paternoster Row, and the printer's
press in Fleet Street, the Chapter Hotel and Coffee House had been
convenient.  It was a quiet, sombre, clerical house, beseeming such
a man as the warden, and thus he afterwards frequented it.  Had he
dared, he would on this occasion have gone elsewhere to throw the
archdeacon further off the scent; but he did not know what violent
steps his son-in-law might take for his recovery if he were not found
at his usual haunt, and he deemed it not prudent to make himself the
object of a hunt through London.

Arrived at his inn, he ordered dinner, and went forth to the
attorney-general's chambers.  There he learnt that Sir Abraham was in
Court, and would not probably return that day.  He would go direct
from Court to the House; all appointments were, as a rule, made at the
chambers; the clerk could by no means promise an interview for the
next day; was able, on the other hand, to say that such interview was,
he thought, impossible; but that Sir Abraham would certainly be at the
House in the course of the night, where an answer from himself might
possibly be elicited.

To the House Mr Harding went, and left his note, not finding Sir
Abraham there.  He added a most piteous entreaty that he might be
favoured with an answer that evening, for which he would return.  He
then journeyed back sadly to the Chapter Coffee House, digesting his
great thoughts, as best he might, in a clattering omnibus, wedged in
between a wet old lady and a journeyman glazier returning from his
work with his tools in his lap.  In melancholy solitude he discussed
his mutton chop and pint of port.  What is there in this world more
melancholy than such a dinner?  A dinner, though eaten alone, in a
country hotel may be worthy of some energy; the waiter, if you are
known, will make much of you; the landlord will make you a bow and
perhaps put the fish on the table; if you ring you are attended to,
and there is some life about it.  A dinner at a London eating-house is
also lively enough, if it have no other attraction.  There is plenty
of noise and stir about it, and the rapid whirl of voices and rattle
of dishes disperses sadness.  But a solitary dinner in an old,
respectable, sombre, solid London inn, where nothing makes any noise
but the old waiter's creaking shoes; where one plate slowly goes and
another slowly comes without a sound; where the two or three guests
would as soon think of knocking each other down as of speaking; where
the servants whisper, and the whole household is disturbed if an order
be given above the voice,--what can be more melancholy than a mutton
chop and a pint of port in such a place?

Excessive rapidity of utterance is, undoubtedly, a very prevalent
fault, both in speaking and in conversation. Deliberate speech is
usually a characteristic of culture and good-breeding. This excellence
is greatly promoted by giving due quantity, or prolongation of
sound, to the vowels.

PAUSES. Besides the pauses required by the syntactical structure of
the sentence, and denoted by grammatical punctuation, there are the
pauses of passion, and the pauses at the termination of the clusters
into which words are grouped in good speaking.

The pauses of emotion occur in impassioned delivery. They usually consist
in lengthening the stops indicated by the punctuation marks, especially
those of the points of exclamation and interrogation, and the dash.
Pauses of this description constitute one of the most importent of
the elements of emphatic expression, and yet they are, by many
speakers, altogether neglected, or so abridged as to destroy
their effect. The young student is particularly apt to disregard
them.

The pauses which mark the grouping of words according to the sense,
and afford rests for taking breath, should generally be introduced
before the nominative, if it consists of several words, or if it is one
important word; before and after an intermediate clause; before the
relative; before and after clauses introduced by prepositions;
before conjunctions; and before the infinitive mood, if any words
intervene betwixt it and the word governing it.

INFLECTIONS.

The two chief inflections or slides are the raising and the falling.
The voice, when properly managed, usually rises or falls on each
emphatic syllable. These upward and downward movements of the voice
are what we mean by inflections.

The student should practice on them till he can inflect with ease
and in a full sonorous voice. Persons who are deficient in tune do
not readily perceive the difference between the rising slide and
loudness of voice, or the falling and softness. It is a very useful
exercise to pronounce the long vowel sounds giving to each first the
rising then the falling slide. The prolongation of these sounds is
most profitably connected with the slides, the voice being thus
strengthened in its whole range of compass, and, at the same time,
accustomed to utter the musical sounds of speech with due quantity.

In inflecting the vowels, the voice, in order to rise, begins low;
and, in order to fall, it begins high.

The rising and falling slides combined form the circumflex, or wave,
which is a very impressive and significant modification of the
voice.

It is chiefly used in sarcasm, raillery, irony, wit, and humor. It
well deserves careful study and practice.

THE MONOTONE, is the repetition of nearly the same tone on successive
syllables, resembling the repeated strokes of the bell. This element
belongs to very grave delivery, especially where emotions of
awe, sublimity, grandeur, and vastness are expressed, and is peculiarly
adapted to devotional exercises. The following example well illustrates
its use:

"He bowed the heavens also, and came down; and darkness was under his
feet,--And he rode upon a cherub and did fly; yea, he did fly
upon the wings of the wind. He made darkness his secret place; his
pavilion round about him were dark waters and thick clouds of the
skies."
In practical delivery, the elements of expression are never used
independently of each other, two or three being always combined, even
in the utterance of the shortest passage.

The perfection of vocal training, therefore, requires a command,
not merely of each individual modification of the voice, but of all
their numerous combinations.

The following example requires the union of declamatory force, low
pitch, slow rate, monotone, and orotund quality:--
"High on a throne of royal state, which far Outshone the wealth of
Ormus. and of Ind, Or where the gorgeous East with richest hand,
Showers on her kings barbaric pearl and gold, Satan exalted sat."

What has been said thus far, relates wholly to preparatory training
in the elements of elocution. I have dwelt upon this theoretical
department of my subject, because of its transcendent importance."No, sir, not one," whispered the waiter, putting his mouth nearly
close to the warden's ear.

Mr Harding was reassured.

"Waiter," said he again, and the waiter again creaked up.  "If anyone
calls for me, I am going to dine out, and shall return about eleven
o'clock."

The waiter nodded, but did not this time vouchsafe any reply; and Mr
Harding, taking up his hat, proceeded out to pass a long day in the
best way he could, somewhere out of sight of the archdeacon.

Bradshaw had told him twenty times that Dr Grantly could not be at
Paddington station till 2 P.M., and our poor friend might therefore
have trusted to the shelter of the hotel for some hours longer with
perfect safety; but he was nervous.  There was no knowing what steps
the archdeacon might take for his apprehension: a message by electric
telegraph might desire the landlord of the hotel to set a watch upon
him; some letter might come which he might find himself unable to
disobey; at any rate, he could not feel himself secure in any place
at which the archdeacon could expect to find him; and at 10 A.M. he
started forth to spend twelve hours in London.

Mr Harding had friends in town had he chosen to seek them; but he felt
that he was in no humour for ordinary calls, and he did not now wish
to consult with anyone as to the great step which he had determined
to take.  As he had said to his daughter, no one knows where the shoe
pinches but the wearer.  There are some points on which no man can be
contented to follow the advice of another,--some subjects on which
a man can consult his own conscience only.  Our warden had made up
his mind that it was good for him at any cost to get rid of this
grievance; his daughter was the only person whose concurrence appeared
necessary to him, and she did concur with him most heartily.  Under
such circumstances he would not, if he could help it, consult anyone
further, till advice would be useless.  Should the archdeacon catch
him, indeed, there would be much advice, and much consultation of a
kind not to be avoided; but he hoped better things; and as he felt
that he could not now converse on indifferent subjects, he resolved
to see no one till after his interview with the attorney-general.

He determined to take sanctuary in Westminster Abbey, so he again went
thither in an omnibus, and finding that the doors were not open for
morning service, he paid his twopence, and went in as a sightseer.
It occurred to him that he had no definite place of rest for the day,
and that he should be absolutely worn out before his interview if he
attempted to walk about from 10 A.M. to 10 P.M., so he sat himself
down on a stone step, and gazed up at the figure of William Pitt, who
looks as though he had just entered the church for the first time in
his life and was anything but pleased at finding himself there.

He had been sitting unmolested about twenty minutes when the verger
asked him whether he wouldn't like to walk round. Mr Harding didn't
want to walk anywhere, and declined, merely observing that he was
waiting for the morning service.  The verger, seeing that he was a
clergyman, told him that the doors of the choir were now open, and
showed him into a seat.  This was a great point gained; the archdeacon
would certainly not come to morning service at Westminster Abbey, even
though he were in London; and here the warden could rest quietly, and,
when the time came, duly say his prayers.

He longed to get up from his seat, and examine the music-books of the
choristers, and the copy of the litany from which the service was
chanted, to see how far the little details at Westminster corresponded
with those at Barchester, and whether he thought his own voice would
fill the church well from the Westminster precentor's seat.  There
would, however, be impropriety in such meddling, and he sat perfectly
still, looking up at the noble roof, and guarding against the coming
fatigues of the day.

By degrees two or three people entered; the very same damp old woman
who had nearly obliterated him in the omnibus, or some other just like
her; a couple of young ladies with their veils down, and gilt crosses
conspicuous on their prayer-books; an old man on crutches; a party who
were seeing the abbey, and thought they might as well hear the service
for their twopence, as opportunity served; and a young woman with her
prayer-book done up in her handkerchief, who rushed in late, and, in
her hurried entry, tumbled over one of the forms, and made such a
noise that everyone, even the officiating minor canon, was startled,
and she herself was so frightened by the echo of her own catastrophe
that she was nearly thrown into fits by the panic.

Mr Harding was not much edified by the manner of the service.  The
minor canon in question hurried in, somewhat late, in a surplice not
in the neatest order, and was followed by a dozen choristers, who were
also not as trim as they might have been: they all jostled into their
places with a quick hurried step, and the service was soon commenced.
Soon commenced and soon over,--for there was no music, and time was
not unnecessarily lost in the chanting.  On the whole Mr Harding was
of opinion that things were managed better at Barchester, though even
there he knew that there was room for improvement.

It appears to us a question whether any clergyman can go through our
church service with decorum, morning after morning, in an immense
building, surrounded by not more than a dozen listeners.  The best
actors cannot act well before empty benches, and though there is, of
course, a higher motive in one case than the other, still even the
best of clergymen cannot but be influenced by their audience; and to
expect that a duty should be well done under such circumstances, would
be to require from human nature more than human power.

When the two ladies with the gilt crosses, the old man with his
crutch, and the still palpitating housemaid were going, Mr Harding
found himself obliged to go too.  The verger stood in his way, and
looked at him and looked at the door, and so he went.  But he returned
again in a few minutes, and re-entered with another twopence.  There
was no other sanctuary so good for him.

As he walked slowly down the nave, and then up one aisle, and then
again down the nave and up the other aisle, he tried to think gravely
of the step he was about to take.  He was going to give up eight
hundred a year voluntarily; and doom himself to live for the rest of
his life on about a hundred and fifty.  He knew that he had hitherto
failed to realise this fact as he ought to do.  Could he maintain
his own independence and support his daughter on a hundred and fifty
pounds a year without being a burden on anyone?  His son-in-law was
rich, but nothing could induce him to lean on his son-in-law after
acting, as he intended to do, in direct opposition to his son-in-law's
counsel.  The bishop was rich, but he was about to throw away the
bishop's best gift, and that in a manner to injure materially the
patronage of the giver: he could neither expect nor accept anything
further from the bishop.  There would be not only no merit, but
positive disgrace, in giving up his wardenship, if he were not
prepared to meet the world without it.  Yes, he must from this time
forward bound all his human wishes for himself and his daughter to
the poor extent of so limited an income.  He knew he had not thought
sufficiently of this, that he had been carried away by enthusiasm,
and had hitherto not brought home to himself the full reality of his
position.

He thought most about his daughter, naturally.  It was true that she
was engaged, and he knew enough of his proposed son-in-law to be sure
that his own altered circumstances would make no obstacle to such a
marriage; nay, he was sure that the very fact of his poverty would
induce Bold more anxiously to press the matter; but he disliked
counting on Bold in this emergency, brought on, as it had been, by
his doing.  He did not like saying to himself, Bold has turned me
out of my house and income, and, therefore, he must relieve me of my
daughter; he preferred reckoning on Eleanor as the companion of his
poverty and exile,--as the sharer of his small income.

Some modest provision for his daughter had been long since made.  His
life was insured for three thousand pounds, and this sum was to go to
Eleanor.  The archdeacon, for some years past, had paid the premium,
and had secured himself by the immediate possession of a small
property which was to have gone to Mrs Grantly after her father's
death.  This matter, therefore, had been taken out of the warden's
hands long since, as, indeed, had all the business transactions of
his family, and his anxiety was, therefore, confined to his own life
income.

Yes.  A hundred and fifty per annum was very small, but still it might
suffice; but how was he to chant the litany at the cathedral on Sunday
mornings, and get the service done at Crabtree Parva?  True, Crabtree
Church was not quite a mile and a half from the cathedral; but he
could not be in two places at once.  It will be for another age, and
a higher civilization, to appreciate the more exalted character of
the art of benevolence, the art of extending happiness and all good
influences, by word or deed, to the largest number of mankind, which,
in blessed contrast with the misery, the degradation, the wickedness
of war, shall shine resplendent, the true grandeur of peace. All
then will be willing to join with the early poet in saying, at least,

"Through louder fame attend the martial rage, 'T is greater glory to
reform the age."
Then shall the soul thrill with a nobler heroism than that of
battle.
Peaceful industry, with untold multitudes of cheerful and beneficent
laborers, shall be its gladsome token. Literature, full of sympathy
and comfort for the heart of man, shall appear in garments of purer
glory than she has yet assumed. Science shall extend the bounds of
knowledge and power adding unimaginable strength to the hands of man,
opening innumerable resources in the earth, and revealing new secrets
and harmonies in the skies. Art, elevated and refined, shall lavish
fresh streams of beauty and grace.

Charity, in streams of milk and honey, shall diffuse itself among
all the habitations of the world.

Does any one ask for the signs of this approaching era? The increasing
beneficence and intelligence of our own day, the broad-spread
sympathy with human suffering, the widening thoughts of men, the
longings of the heart for a higher condition on earth, the unfulfilled
promises of Christian progress, are the auspicious auguries of this
happy future.He hurried along, still in dread of the archdeacon, till he came
to Charing Cross, and then remembered that in one of his passages
through the Strand he had seen the words "Chops and Steaks" on a
placard in a shop window.  He remembered the shop distinctly; it was
next door to a trunk-seller's, and there was a cigar shop on the other
side.  He couldn't go to his hotel for dinner, which to him hitherto
was the only known mode of dining in London at his own expense; and,
therefore, he would get a steak at the shop in the Strand.  Archdeacon
Grantly would certainly not come to such a place for his dinner.

He found the house easily,--just as he had observed it, between the
trunks and the cigars.  He was rather daunted by the huge quantity
of fish which he saw in the window.  There were barrels of oysters,
hecatombs of lobsters, a few tremendous-looking crabs, and a tub full
of pickled salmon; not, however, being aware of any connection between
shell-fish and iniquity, he entered, and modestly asked a slatternly
woman, who was picking oysters out of a great watery reservoir,
whether he could have a mutton chop and a potato.

The woman looked somewhat surprised, but answered in the affirmative,
and a slipshod girl ushered him into a long back room, filled with
boxes for the accommodation of parties, in one of which he took his
seat.  Let us aid them and cheer them on. Let us, my fellow-citizens,
rally round the flag of our country, the flag of our fathers, the
glorious flag known and honored throughout the earth, and now rendered
more illustrious by the gallant Anderson. In the spirit of peace and
forbearance he waved it over Fort Sumter. The pretended authorities
of South Carolina and the other Southern States attacked him because
they seemed to consider him a kind of minister plenipotentiary.
It was a London
supper-house.  About one o'clock at night the place would be lively
enough, but at the present time his seclusion was as deep as it had
been in the abbey.

In about half an hour the untidy girl, not yet dressed for her evening
labours, brought him his chop and potatoes, and Mr Harding begged for
a pint of sherry.  He was impressed with an idea, which was generally
prevalent a few years since, and is not yet wholly removed from the
minds of men, that to order a dinner at any kind of inn, without also
ordering a pint of wine for the benefit of the landlord, was a kind of
fraud,--not punishable, indeed, by law, but not the less abominable
on that account.  Mr Harding remembered his coming poverty, and
would willingly have saved his half-crown, but he thought he had no
alternative; and he was soon put in possession of some horrid mixture
procured from the neighbouring public-house.

His chop and potatoes, however, were eatable, and having got over
as best he might the disgust created by the knives and forks, he
contrived to swallow his dinner.  He was not much disturbed: one
young man, with pale face and watery fishlike eyes, wearing his hat
ominously on one side, did come in and stare at him, and ask the
girl, audibly enough, "Who that old cock was;" but the annoyance went
no further, and the warden was left seated on his wooden bench in
peace, endeavouring to distinguish the different scents arising from
lobsters, oysters, and salmon.

Unknowing as Mr Harding was in the ways of London, he felt that he had
somehow selected an ineligible dining-house, and that he had better
leave it.  Everything comes to him who knows how to wait. We waited,
and Mr. JOHN HOLLINGSHEAD brought Niagara to Westminster. We waited
again, and Mr. ARTHUR VOKINS brings Cornwall to Baker Street, and
introduces us to a very clever young sea-scapist, Mr. A.He thought of
getting into an omnibus, and going out to Fulham for the sake of
coming back in another: this, however, would be weary work, and as he
paid his bill to the woman in the shop, he asked her if there were any
place near where he could get a cup of coffee.  Though she did keep a
shellfish supper-house, she was very civil, and directed him to the
cigar divan on the other side of the street.

I hope that our learned men have done something for the honor of our
literature abroad. I hope that the courts of justice and members of
the bar of this country have done something to elevate the character
of the profession of the law.He thought he must have made some
mistake when he found himself in a cigar shop, but the man behind the
counter saw immediately that he was a stranger, and understood what he
wanted.  "One shilling, sir,--thank ye, sir,--cigar, sir?--ticket for
coffee, sir;--you'll only have to call the waiter.  Up those stairs,
if you please, sir.  Better take the cigar, sir,--you can always give
it to a friend, you know.  Well, sir, thank ye, sir;--as you are so
good, I'll smoke it myself."  And so Mr Harding ascended to the divan,
with his ticket for coffee, but minus the cigar.

