Said he: "A swordless foeman
 I've no desire to slay;
But if you will, as yeomen,
 We'll try another way."
As waves 'gainst waves are pushing,
 And breaking crest on crest,
So on each other rushing,
 They wrestled breast to breast.

They fought like two bears trying
 Their strength on crust of snow,
Or, as o'er mad waves flying
 The eagle meets his foe.
The firm earth trembled round them,
 Though based on solid rock,
And oaks, though strong roots bound them,
 Could scarce withstand the shock.

Their brows with sweat were beaded,
 Their breasts heaved with a sound,
The brush and stones unheeded,
 They scattered all around.
The twelve in expectation
 Stood quaking on the sand;
Renowned through every nation
 That struggle on the strand.

But Fridthjof was the stronger,
 He felled his foe at last,
And said with fiery anger,
 His knee on Atle's breast:
"Had I my good sword ready,
 Thou berserk blackbeard, now
Thy miserable body
 I'd straightway plunge it through."

"Go bring it! Who'll prevent thee?"
 Is generous Atle's cry,
"And if it will content thee,
 As now I'll quiet lie.
Why should it make me sorrow?
 For all must Valhal see;
I go to-day--to-morrow
 Perhaps thy turn will be."

Then Fridthjof quick returning,
 Desired to end the fray;
Raised Angervadil burning,--
 But Atle quiet lay.
The falling blade ne'er harmed him,
 For Fridthjof struck the sand;
Such courage had disarmed him,
 He took brave Atle's hand.

With gleeful admonition
 Old Halvard swung his staff:
"For your battle-meal potation
 There's nothing here to quaff;
Upon the board hot-smoking
 The silver dishes glow;
A cold meal is provoking,
 And thirst annoys me so.'

Appeased, with friendly feeling,
 The portals they pass through,
And here from floor to ceiling,
 To Fridthjof all was new.
Rough planks well matched together
 Lined not the spacious hall,
But 'broidered golden leather
 Was stretched along the wall.

The center was not littered
 By mortared hearthstone wide;
A marble fireplace glittered,
 Built up against the side.
No smoke 'mid rafters flitted,
 No roof with soot spread o'er;
Glass panes the windows fitted,
 A lock secured the door.

No woollen torches crackling,
 Illumed the champions' feast,
But waxen candles, sparkling,
 In silver sconces placed.
A roasted stag, well larded,
 The table's center graced;
Gold bands his raised hoof guarded,
 With flowers his horns were dressed.

Beside each champion sitting,
 A youthful maiden stood,--
An evening star, bright flitting,
 Behind a stormy cloud
The blue eyes beamed, in showers
 The gold-brown tresses flowed,
Complete as sculptured flowers
 The little rose-lips glowed.

On silver stool, high mounted,
 Sat Angantyr, the old;
His helm shot rays uncounted,
 His corselet was of gold.
His mantle, rich and splendid,
 With golden stars was strewn,--
And where the purple ended,
 The spotless ermine shone,

Three steps the earl descended
 To Fridthjof genially
He said, with hand extended:
 "Come higher, sit by me.
Of horns I've emptied many
 With Thorstein in his day;
His son, more famed than any,
 Shall not sit far away."

He filled each goblet brimming

 With wine from Sicily,--
Like sparks of fire 'twas gleaming,
 And foaming like the sea.
"Welcome!" exclaimed the speaker,
 "My friend's most worthy son!
To Thorstein fill a beaker,--
 And drink now, every one!"

Now woke the harpstring's slumbers,
 A skald from Morven's hills,
In Gaul's melodious numbers,
 Sad hero-songs he trills.
But Thorstein's praise was chanted
 In old Norwayan tongue;
His noble deeds were vaunted,
 His daring valor snug.

The earl asked much concerning
 His friends of days gone by;
In words replete with learning
 Young Fridthjof made reply.
A judgment given blindly,
Swift accusation brings,
He spoke like Saga, kindly,
Remembering holy things.

And when he there recounted
 How Helge goblins sent,
Which first the blue waves mounted,
 Then, conquered, downward, went,
The champions cheered him loudly,
 And Angantyr the same,--
In high approwd, proudly,
 They echoed Fridthjof's name.

But when he spoke in anguish,
 Of Ing'borg in her bloom,
How she was left to languish,
 Her heart with grief o'ercome,--
Each maiden's cheek was burning,
 Each bosom sore distressed;
And to her lover turning,
 His faithful hand she pressed.

His embassy to mention
 He ventured by and by;
The earl gave pleased attention,
 And then he made reply:
"I ne'er was tributary;
 King Bele's health, maybe,
To drink was customary,
 But from his law we're free.

"His sons, I do not know them;
 If tribute they demand,
Custom the way will show them,
 We'll meet them on the strand,
And see who best is reckoned;
 But Thorstein was my friend."
His daughter then he beckoned,
 Who sat quite near at hand.

Figures 23 to 33 after Mühlmann.]
 In some areas of the nervous
system to accumulate the fat
 granules, which gradually
became dark pigment granules
 are earlier than in others,
eg in some cell groups
 involved in the regulation of myocardial work and the work of the
assistance of respiratory muscles.

To sum up, what the
 investigations of Mühlmann have
taught, so it can be said that
 _in the neurons even in the early
youth fat granules occur with the
 age is more and more to
grow until they eventually
 almost the entire cell erfüllen_.

_Pigmentkörnchen has also in the
 aged cells of all other
organs nachgewiesen._ Especially
 striking is a brownish pigment
deposition in the heart
 muscle cells. What has
this storage of pigment
 in cells mean?

This question is not easy. Only
 about _Vermutungen_ we can
employ. You know the fact
 that in the metabolism of
some forms of living matter,
 eg in bacteria and
in some invertebrates,
 substances used in the chemical group of the fatty acids to include
them.

Under certain circumstances,
 such as diseases, are also in
the metabolism of
 human fat, for example, with
diabetes. Fatty acids now
 combine with glycerin
to fat. Are you an animal
 larger amounts of fat, so you can find after a few hours in the
lymph of the animal, numerous fat globules.

That tells us that the cells of the animal organism the ability to
produce glycerol, which is then compared with the fatty acids to
fat united.

One could then imagine that the bold shiny granules, found in the
cells of the organism from the earliest youth to visit and see how
we have convinced ourselves up, in any case droplets of a fat-like
substance, in the following ways.

In the cells of our body to be metabolized,
perhaps even usually fatty acids
formed, but in the remainder of the material
movements in the cells from these
herausgeschafft be contributing to carbon
dioxide and water, the end products of metabolism, are incinerated.

Now we assume that with the removal of metabolic
products from the cells in the state cells
are not so well ordered, as it should
be. Then metabolic products in the
cells remain, although they are no longer
to include them. The transformations in
the cells will suffer a loss and further
processing of fatty acids is not good enough to
proceed. There will be a balance of fatty acids
in the cells left behind. The fatty acids are
similar to a fatty substance to be
processed - the glycerol, the cells need
to have, they may indeed have the capacity
to produce.
Wildly his pulses bound,
But none interprets the broken sound.

Ellide gayly the headland rounding,
Skips lightly on, like a roebuck bounding.
Familiar waters surround the prow
Where happy Fridthjof is standing now.
He rubs his eyes and his hand he places
Above his brow to discern the traces
Of home so dear; but he looks in vain,--
Of Framness ashes alone remain.
The naked chimney stands lone and dreary,
Like warriors' bones of their grave-mounds weary;
The garden place is a blackened floor,
The ashes whirl round the wasted shore.
In bitter mood from his ship he hasteth,
Around the ruins his eyes he casteth,
His father's dwelling, his childhood's pride.
Then faithful Bran with the shaggy hide,
Comes running toward him, each moment faster,--
Of forest bears had he oft been master;
How high he springs in his gladsome glee,
How leaps with pleasure his friend to see.
The milk-white steed he so oft had ridden
Comes bounding up from the valley hidden,
With swan-like neck and the frame of a hind
And gold mane floating upon the wind.
He curves his neck and he stamps while standing,
His food from Fridthjof's own hand demanding;
But Fridthjof, poorer by far than they,
Has nought to give them,--he turns away.

Worry that your lower abdomen - back - and
your Werth will be bigger, just let your Revel,
remember that the grave of his
throat dreymal continues against you
aufsperrt, as against other people -
Answer me abgeschmakten fun no dissent; bilde
dir not that I am the thing I was aware
of the heavens, and the world should
be aware that my former self of mine
geworffen did, and so I will work with my
society.
"The word I hear," Hilding said in sadness,
"I fear will bring you but little gladness.
You scarce had sailed when king Ring came on,
Five shields I counted against our one.
In Disar-dale did we prove our valor,--
The river foamed with a crimson color.
King Halfdan's jest and his laugh arose,
So too the sound of his manly blows.
My shield I held as a buckler o'er him,
Well pleased with fruits his bravery bore him.
Not long indeed did the battle last.
King Helge yielded, and flying fast,
Though asa-blood in his veins was welling,
In passing Framness he fired the dwelling.
Before the brothers the choice was placed,
To give their sister to Ring, disgraced.
(By her alone could his wrongs be righted),
Or give their throne for his offer slighted.
Then hither and thither the messengers hied,
But now has Ring carried home his bride."

"O woman, woman!" said Fridthjof, scorning,
"Old Loke's thought should have been a warning;
His thought a lie, was in woman's form,
To man he sent it his heart to warm,
A blue-eyed lie that with tears alarms us,
Forever cheats and forever charms us;
A rose-checked lie with bust defined,
Of spring-ice virtue and faith like wind;
From out whose heart folly often glances,
On whose fresh lips basest falsehood dances.
Far more important and more interesting
than the jokes of Lord Palmerston,
the sayings of a man, like Thomas Carlyle, the
heroes of the spirit to know and to
appreciate the seriousness and the depth
of insight and knowledge possessed. He
has evolved from Ms. Delia Bacon can visit
their views listened to and said: "Your Bacon
would just as well the earth can,
like Hamlet!" A simultaneous letters to
an American friend, he added the postscript:
"Your Countrywoman is crazy."
O, thou noble Var
Who wanderest over the earth afar,
To record on gold every vow that's spoken,
Forego thy pastime, the vows are broken.
The tablet filled with but falsest lies,
The faithful gold 'gainst the insult cries.
Of Balder's Nanna I've oft been dreaming,
But truth in mortals is only seeming.
In faithfulness can no heart rejoice
Since falsehood borrows my Ingeborg's voice,--
A voice like wind which o'er flower fields strayeth
Or harp-strings' music when Brage playeth.
I'll list no more when the harp is tried,
I will not think of my faithless bride;
Where storms are raging there will I follow,
Till blood thou drinkest, thou ocean billow.
Where swords sow seeds for pale death to reap,
On mount or vale I my vigil keep.
If king I meet and to combat dare him
I smile to think how my sword shall spare him.
But if in battle a youth I meet,
With heart enamored and visions sweet,
Deluded fool who on faith relieth,
I'll hew him down e'er the vision flyeth,
Will kindly slay him ere yet he be
Deceived, disgraced and betrayed like me."

"The blood that's youthful no boundaries heedeth,"
Old Hilding said, "how much it needeth
The cooling touch of the snows of age.
You wrong the maid with your senseless rage.
My foster-daughter beware of blaming
For adverse fortune which, heaven ordaining,
The wrathful norns upon men below
Hurl down, for none can escape the blow.
Like silent Vidar, no outward token
The maiden gave that her heart was broken.
Her grief was mute as in southern grove
The voiceless woe of the widowed dove.
To me alone who her childhood guided
Was all the pain she endured confided.
As dives the sea-fowl with wounded breast
Lest daylight's eye should upon it rest,
And there remaineth with life-blood flowing,
No sign of weakness or misery showing,
So she in darkness her suffering bore,
And only I saw her anguish sore.
She often said: 'I am but an offering
For Bele's kingdom; who talks of suffering!
The snow-drop fragrant, with leaf and vine
To deck the victim in wreaths they twine.
How sweet to die and escape from anguish!
But no, in pain must I live and languish;
For Balder's wrath will no rest allow

My aching heart and my throbbing brow.
But tell to no one my secret sorrow,
I'd rather suffer than pity borrow;
King Bele's daughter her fate may dare,--
But kindly greeting to Fridthjof bear.'
The wedding day with its footsteps fateful
Arrived at last. O, the day most hateful!
To the temple marched in procession sad,
The white-robed virgins and men steel-clad;
A bard dejected the train was guiding,
The pale bride followed, a black steed riding
As pale was she as the wraith which sits
On a storm-cloud black, when the lightning flits.
From off the saddle I quietly took her,
Nor at the temple door forsook her;
But led her up to the altar, where
Her vows she uttered in accents clear.
She wept and prayed, on good Balder calling,
While down her cheeks were the tear-drops falling.
When Helge saw on her arm your band,
He tore it off with an angry hand;
On Balder's image now hangs the jewel.
The reason was now discovered infidelity of
the woman. You have some Baconianer
Othello the motive to gewittert.
Admittedly, this appeared to 1622, while
from December 1625 disinherit datirt; admittedly
was sealed and Othello already listed before
geheirathet Bacon has, but it does the accounts of Mrs.

Henry Pott no entry 4. Bacon as Catherine of
Aragon, and Wolsey other fallen sizes.
Bacon had his fall, known for his guilt
and shame enough, "silent and proud" and
tolerate these people in Gesinnungsart
like Catherine of Aragon, Buckingham, Wolsey and others dramatically
presented.

In reality, Bacon at his mercy angefleht judge and referred to a
broken pipe: it was not "proud".

In truth, he is not tired, for his full restoration to ask: it was
not "silent".

"Still and proud!" That sounds almost
 like "noble simplicity" and
"hidden variable", as Winckelmann,
 the Greek art has charakterisirt.

[Footnote: Ebendaselbst p. 298-300.]
 VI. THE THIRD KIND OF BACON-MYTHS:
1. Bacon as the author of the Promus.
 A Collection of Manuscripts in the British Museum are kept, there
are about 50 pages folio under the title "Vorrath good design and
anmuthiger Redewendungen (_Promus of formularies and elegancies_)",
in groups separately, as there are forms of greeting , parables,
metaphors, proverbs & c.

A portion of this Promus is
 Speddings view of the whole
no significant Werth ascribes
 somehow, from Bacon's hand, so it just a few extracts from it in
his Gesammtausgabe of works has begun.

This was already the 1861st [Footnote:
 _Works_ VII, p. 187-213.] Several
decades later, an English lady, Mrs.
 Henry Pott, the Promus fully released (1883) and after an alleged
survey of several thousand books in 1655 Redewendungen want to
demonstrate that they are not vorbaconischen literature, in the
simultaneous but only to Shakespeare, which are said by knowledgeable
historical assertion disputed site and has been refuted.

She has in the "Promus" the germs
 meant to be discovered,
giving both the sonnets, as well
 as the dramas of Shakespeare were grown, so this is not a total
seal of Shakespeare, but only came to Bacon.

The proof of the Bacon theory
 called the first of obvious
intrinsic reasons (_internal evidence_).
 [Footnote: _The Promus of formularies and elegancies [being private
notes, circ. 1594, Hitherto unpublished] by _Francis Bacon_,
elucidated and illustrated by passages from _Shakespeare_ by Mrs.

Henry Pott with preface by EA Abbot,
 London 1883._ With appendix and
index the book counts 658 pages, while
 Speddings extracts only 13 pages and on Romeo and Juliet related
not included.] 2 The Promus as a source of Romeo and Juliet.

I will note only those leaves which
 the germ, though the raw
material and preparing to "Romeo and
 Juliet" and therefore should be included by Mrs.

Henry Pott even explain excellently
 suited their view to prove.

 the fire has the upper hand,
 Smoke-clouds dense are growing,
Gold falls first on the red-hot sand,
 Silver streams are flowing.

All is lost! to the half-burned hall
 A fire-red cock is clinging,
He sits and crows on the roof-peak tall,
 His loosened pinions swinging.

The wind-blown flame mounts the vaulted sky,
 Everything it levels,
Balder's grove is summer dry,
 The hungry fire-king revels.

Fiercely leaping from height to height
 Aiming yet still higher;
O, what wild and terrific light!
 Strong is Balder's pyre!

Hark, it crackles! the roots now burn,
 The tops are fiery showers;
Muspel's ruddy children spurn
 Man's mere human powers.

A fire-sea billows in Balder's grove,
 Strandless breaks and hisses,
The sun is up, but bay and cove
 Mirror flaming abysses.

Soon in smoldering ashes lay
 Grove and temple's adorning;
Sadly then Fridthjof turned away,--
 Wept in the light of morning.


XIV.

FRIDTHJOF GOES INTO EXILE


On deck at night
In summer bright,
Sat Fridthjof grieving;
Like billows heaving,
Now wrath, now grief,
In his heart was chief;
And shoreward turning
Saw fires still burning.

"Thou temple reek
Fly up and seek
High Valhal's towers;
The  White God's powers
Call down on me
With wrath's decree.
And tell, swift bounding,
The vault resounding,
The temple burned
To dust is turned;
The imaged glory
But lives in story.
Quick burned the god
Like common wood.
The grove protected
Nor once neglected
Since men swords bore
Is now no more;
By fire the slaying
Not time's decaying.
Forget no word
Thou hast seen or heard,
In Balder's dwelling
The story telling,
Thou message cloud
Of gods the shroud.
Long live in story
King Helge's glory,
Who exiled me
From him and thee,
My father's nation.
We'll roam creation
Where blue is king,
Where wild waves sing.
Thou canst not rest thee
Ellide, haste thee;
Earth's farthest bound
We'll sail around.
Soon thou'lt be rocking,
The sea-foam mocking,
My dragon good;
A drop of blood
Will nothing hinder
As on we wander.

In fiercest storm
Art thou my home;--
The one I cherished
By Helge perished.
Thou art my North
My foster-earth,--
The other leaving
I wander grieving:
My bride caressed
In black robes dressed;
The one in lustre
I could not trust her.

Thou ocean free,
Unknown to thee
Is king oppressive,
Untrue, aggressive.
Thy king is he
Among the free
Who trembles never
How high soever,
With wrath oppressed,
Heaves thy white breast.
Blue fields are charming
And not alarming;
There heroes plow
With keel and bow,
And blood-rain showers
In oaken bowers.
The good steel blade
Is seed-corn made.
The fields bring yearly
Not honor merely, 
But gold as well.
Oh, kindly swell,
Thou ocean billow!
Thee will I follow.
My father's grave
Calm waters lave
(How still he sleepeth
Where green grass creepeth).
Mine blue shall be,
Flecked like the sea;
Forever floating,
On tempest gloating,
And fathoms deep
Draw men to sleep;
To me thou'rt given
For life a haven;
My grave thou'lt be,
Thou ocean free."

Thus inly burning
Sang Fridthjof, turning
His prow so true
From seas he knew,
And slowly creeping
'Mid rocks still keeping
Their faithful ward
O'er shallow fjord.

But vengeance watcheth;
King Helge fetcheth
Ten dragons out.
Thh people shout,
With breath abated:
"The king is fated;
He offers fight,
We scorn his might;
Though heaven-descended,
His reign is ended;
From earth we know
He now must go,
The blood god-given
Now longs for heaven."

Scarce was it spoke
Ere keels of oak
By unseen power
Began to lower;
Then on and on
Are downward drawn
To Ran's safe keeping.
King Helge, leaping,
Is glad to swim
From the sinking stem.
And Bjorn, none blaming,
Laughed loud, exclaiming:
"Thou asa-blood,
The art was good;
No one detected,
Or e'en suspected,
I bored so quick,--
A worthy trick!
May waves enfold them
And Ran still hold them
As heretofore.
It grieves me sore
That Helge misses
False Ran's cold kisses."

In wrathful mood
King Helge stood
From death delivered;
His round bow quivered,
Though made of steel,
As toward the shoal
So hard he drew it,
Though scarce he knew it,
It clanging broke.
Then Fridthjof spoke,
His lance well aiming,
While loud exclaiming:
"A death-bird here,
Enchained I bear:
If once set; flying,
Then low is lying
Thy coward head.
By Loke led
Thy fear abuseth;
My lance, refuseth

A coward's blood;
It is too good
For food so craven;
Its worth be graven
On funeral stone,
But not upon
A name which beareth
The stain thine weareth.
One exploit brave
Sank 'neath the wave;
The next one failed thee,
Nor aught availed thee;
Thy bow rust broke,
Not thou. The stroke,
When I aspire,
Is set much higher,
As thou mayst see
'Tis far from thee."

His carved oar limber
Was fir-tree timber,--
A mast-fir tall,
From Gudbrand's dale.
Taking another,
With both together
He rowed amain;
Like arrowy cane
Or steel blade brilliant
Were the oars resilient.
If you'll listen,
I sey as I was, then
come to me, and you
should Seyn what you
were, the guardians
and caregivers of
my Auschweiffungen. Until
then, banish
'ich dich, Tight
Bey of death, you and the rest of my seducer, you never under ten
miles of my person to approach.

I want you to let Nöthiger
 maintenance,
so you do not
 weakness Nöthiger
rude to thun, and
 as we will hear that
you are improving,
 we want you, euerm status and efficiency of your after, give
Befördrung - Sorget for Milord, our intention that this will
nachgelebt.

Continued - (The King
 and his entourage
pass.) Ninth Scene.
 Falstaff.
Schallow Lord, I
 am a thousand
pounds you owe. Schallow.
Yes, my soul, Sir John, and I ask you, give it to me again home.

Falstaff. This can
 hardly Seyn, Mr
Schallow. Do not
 worry on this, he will
send for me secret, you
 see, before he
had the people so like
 thun.

Seyde without concern for
 your transportation, but
I want the man Seyn
 that you do great.
Schallow. Begreiffen
 I can not like
the approach would have,
 except if you give me your dewlap, and me with straw ausstopft.

I ask you, good Sir
John, just give me
at least five
hundred pounds. Falstaff.
Sir, my word is just as
much. What you
heard this, adjustment
was only a trick, as I say, come with me to eat lunch, come,
Lieutenant Pistol: come, Bardolph.

 See how short is the shaft of the hammer of Thor, but
 an ell's length the sword blade of Frey;
'Tis enough, for your weapon will ne'er be too short if
 you dare near the enemy stay.

"When the storm rageth fierce, hoist the sail to the top,--
 O how merry the storm-king appears;
Let her drive! let her drive! better founder than strike,
 for who strikes is a slave to his fears.

"Never take on thy vessel the land-sheltered maid; were
 she Freyja herself she'd ensnare;
For the dimples she wears are but pitfalls for men, and
 a net is her free flowing hair.

"Wine is Allfather's drink, and the cup is allowed if you
 only can use it with sense;
He who falls on the land may arise,--who falls here he
 to Ran, the sleep-giving, goes hence.

"If a merchant sail by, you must shelter his ship, but
 the weak will not tribute withhold;
You are king of the waves, he a slave to his gains; and
 your steel is as good as his gold.

"Let your goods he divided by lot or by dice, how it
 falls you may never complain;
But the sea-king himself takes no part in the lots,--he
 considers the honor his gain.

"If a viking-ship come, there is grappling and strife,
 and the fight 'neath the shields will rejoice;
If you yield but a pace you are parted from us; 'tis the
 law, you may act by your choice.

"If you win, be content; he who praying for peace
 yields his sword, is no longer a foe;
"Prayer's a Valhalla-child, hear the suppliant voice; he's
 a coward who answereth no.

"Wounds are viking's reward, and the pride of the man
 on whose breast or whose forehead they stand;
Let them bleed on unbound till the close of the day, if
 you wish to be one of our band."

Thus his law was enrolled,--and his name, every day,
 through all foreign coasts grew renowned;
For his like was not seen on the blue-rolling sea, nor the
 valor his champions crowned.

Then he sat by the rudder and sullenly gazed in the
 depths of the blue rocking tide;
"Thou art deep; in thy depths thriveth peace, it may
 be, but it thriveth not here where we ride.

"Is the White God enraged? Let him take up his sword,
 I will fall if it thus is designed;
But he sits in the skies, and the thoughts he sends
 down which forever are clouding my mind."

When the conflict came on, then his spirit arose like an
 eagle refreshed for its flight;
And his brow it was clear, and his voice it rang high,--
 like the thunderer first in the fight.

So from conquest to conquest unbroken he went, and
 was safe o'er the high, foaming grave;

And he saw in the south many islands and rocks, till
 he came to the calm Grecian wave.

When he saw the green groves that stand out from the
 waves, and the temple before him uprose,
What he thought Freyja knows, and the poet knows too,
 and the lover, he knows, ah! he knows!

"Here we ought to have dwelt, here's the island and
 grove, here the fane as my father set forth.
It was here, it was here I invited my love, but the cruel
 one staid in the North.

"Surely peace has its home in those blissful green dales,--
 in the colonnades, memory's words;
Like the whisper of love are the murmuring founts, and
 a bride-song the voice of the birds.

"Where is Ingeborg now? Hath forgotten me quite for
 the gray-haired and withered old king?
I can never forget, but my life I would give, if one sight
 of my love it would bring.

"Now three years have passed by since the land I beheld
 where heroic achievement prevails;
Tower the honored mounts yet to the heavenly blue? is
 it green in my forefathers' dales?

"On the grave where my father is laid I once planted
 a tree; can it be it lives now?
And who cares for the weakling? Thou earth give it
 moisture, and dew, kindly heaven, give thou.

"But why linger I longer on far distant waves, taking
 tribute and striking men down?
For my soul but despises the glittering gold, and I've
 gained quite enough of renown.

"There's a flag on the mast and it points to the North,
 in the North is the land I hold dear;
I will follow the course of the heavenly winds, and back
 to the Northland I'll steer."


 

XVI.

FRIDTHJOF AND BJORN.


Bjorn, I am weary of riding the sea,
 Turbulent traps are the billowy fountains;
 Northland's firm earth and her long cherished mountains,
Wondrous attractions, are calling to me.
 Happy is he by his land unrejected,
No one denies him his father's green grave;
 Too long, alas, have I wandered dejected,
Outlawed, afloat on this wilderness wave.

BJORN.

Good is the sea, your complaining you squander,
 Freedom and joy on the sea flourish best;
 He never knoweth effeminate rest,
Who on the billows delighteth to wander.
 When I am old, to the green growing land
I too will cling, with the grass for my pillow;
 Now I will drink and will fight with free hand,
Now I'll enjoy my own sorrow-free billow.

FRIDTHJOF.

Now hath the ice indeed chased us to land,
 Close round our keel are the stiffened waves dozing;
 Let me not waste the long winter reposing
Here among rocks on this desolate strand.
 You may not believe that Shakespeare was, and
especially in the big world had known. In an
 exchange of letters between John Chamberlain,
and Dudley Carleton, which runs through the quarter-century covers
(1598-1623), in which Shakespeare's career falls height, was the
talk of all-day, court and city news, anything on the stage and
speakers literature in the new issue of the mask games at the court
in the smallest details from their writers and actors, of their
plan, its execution and recording, but not with a single syllable
of S hakespeare, the poet of "Hamlet" "What you want," "Othello,"
"Measure for Measure," "Merchant of Venice," "Macbeth," "Lear,"
"Storm", "Winter's Tale", etc. - In the year 1608, the Lord Southampton
to the Lord Chancellor Ellesmere written to a petition of the two
actors and Shakespeare Burbadge to advocate, he refers to Shakespeare
as his special friend and the author of some of the best shows,
both men were quite famous in their field, but His Lordship would
not befit, to the Places to go, where you get the ear of the amount
of delight.

And yet the same Lord Chancellor had six years before the Queen at
Harewood receive their entertainment and the "Othello" can perform.

The people knew the plays, but cared little
 about its author, it behaved with the plays,
 like the children to the stories, it takes
so much pleasure to listen to, they ask not
 afterwards, those who survived or invented
stories. The spectacles as lust objects
 of the show belonged to the theater, where
she saw and heard, but not in the literature and books, you read.

So it was to Shakespeare's time and long afterwards in England.

_Works_ 1, p. Note 519-520.] 2 The school Bacon.
 Voltaire. Urtheil Bacon How about Shakespeare
 would be unusual if he had respected
literature, is to me now, after detailed
 consideration, plausible enough: he saw in him
an example, probably one of the most
 effective causes of the "_corruptela theatri_».
Similarly, the philosophers, in the direction of its advanced
state, as Hobbes and Locke, Shakespeare is ungewürdigt and unheeded.

Bacon, however, by Locke, whose teaching in France to reign reached,
the father of French sensualism and Encyklopädisten Today, his books
on Werth and the propagation of science as their major have praised
inheritance.

 He chose for seat to rest him a bench beside the door,--
'Tis now the poor man's station, as 'twas in days of yore;
The courtiers all laughed loudly, with many a gibe and jest,
And with the finger pointed to him in bear-skin dressed.
 
The stranger's eyes flashed lightning which made his anger felt,
And quick a young man seizing with one hand, by the belt,
Both up and down he turned him; then ceased the gleeful din,
For all the rest were silent,--so you and I had been.

"What causes such an uproar? who dares disturb our peace?
Old man, come here and answer, and let the tumult cease;
Your name, your place, your errand; come, answer if you can."
Thus spake the angered monarch to the half-concealed 
old man.

"You ask me many questions, I'll answer every one:
My name (I will not give it) belongs to me alone;
My birthplace was misfortune, my heritage is want,--
I hither came but lately from wolf so fierce and gaunt.

"In youth I rode a dragon upon the waters blue,
Its wings were stout, and gayly and safely too it flew;
But crippled now and frozen, it leaves the land no more,
And I, grown old and weary, burn salt upon the shore.

"I came to see thy wisdom, renowned so far and wide;
And when they met me rudely (for scorn I'll not abide),
One idiot by the girdle I grasped, and turned him round,
For that I beg your pardon,--though now he's safe and sound."

(Lancaster and Lord upper-left judges.) Lancaster. This
procedure of the king like me, it is noble. He wants
to have its usual partners with all Nöthiger Seyn be
supplied, but they are banished to a better performance with the
world they have reconciled.

Lord Upper judges. That they are. Lancaster. The King has his
Parliament together beruffen Milord . Lord upper judge.
He has. Lancaster. I wanted to bet that we, eh DISS year end,
our civil Schwerdt for France will bear.In azure velvet mantle, he then stood forth erect,
His belt a silver girdle with forest beasts bedecked,--
Embossed by cunning workman, each figure deftly traced,
And round and round the hero they each the other chased.

A massive golden circlet his sinewy arm displayed;
His battle-sword hung by him as though the lightning stayed;
A hero glance about him he cast from time to time,
And stood as Balder beauteous, as Asa-Thor sublime.

Surprised, the queen's cheeks quickly with changing color glow,
As northern lights so ruddy paint fields of driven snow;
As two twin water lilies, alarmed by tempest's swell,
Stand swinging on the billow, her bosom rose and fell.

The horn a shrill blast sounded, then silence reigned throughout;
The hour for vows was coming, and Frey's boar now they brought;
His mouth contained an apple, wreaths on his neck were laid,
His four knees bent beneath him upon a silver cade.

_ He has not done what Bacon, this Urtheil expressly applied
to Shakespeare: the world-famous writers it first. The age
of Elizabeth was in his eyes, the flower of England,
not the taste.Then with a smile defiant uprose the stranger tall,
A look of wrath heroic spread o'er his features all,--
He smote with sword the table till through the hall it rang;
And up from oaken benches the steel-clad warriors sprang.

