software or any other related product without express permission.]


Prepared By:  Duncan Harrod - DuncanHarrod@excite.com


THE FORTUNES OF
OLIVER HORN

by F. -- Though Sin had witherd with a charnel breath Creation's morning
bloom, there still remain'd Elysian hues of that Adamic scene, When
the Sun gloried o'er a sinless world, And with each ray produced a
flower!

--From dells Untrodden, hark!

THE FORTUNES OF
OLIVER HORN


CHAPTER I

THE OLD HOUSE IN KENNEDY SQUARE


Kennedy Square, in the late fifties, was a place of
birds and trees and flowers; of rude stone benches,
sagging arbors smothered in vines, and cool dirt-paths
bordered by sweet-smelling box. Giant magnolias
filled the air with their fragrance, and climbing roses
played hide and seek among the railings of the rotting
fence. And when he slumbers on the tented plain
Beneath the vigil stars, a living wall Is round
him, in the might of love's defence:
For he is worthy--sacrifice and song By him are
ruled; and oft at shut of flowers, When queenly virgins
in the sunset go To carry water from the crystal wells,
In beautiful content,--beneath a tree Whose shadows
hung o'er many a hallow'd sire, He sits; recording how creation
rose From nothing, of the Word almighty born; How Man had fallen,
and where Eden boughs Had waved their beauty on the breeze of morn;
Or, how the angels still at twilight love To visit earth with errands
from the sky.

ISAIAH.

Terrific bard! and mighty--in thy strain A torrent
of inspiring passion sounds-- Whether for cities
by the Almighty cursed, Thy wail arose--or,
on enormous crimes That darken'd heav'n with supernat'ral
gloom, Thy flash of indignation fell, alike The
feelings quiver when thy voice awakes!

-- Borne in the whirlwind of a dreadful song, The
spirit travels round the destin'd globe, While
shadows, cast from solemn years to come, Fall round us,
and we feel a God is nigh!

But when a gladness from thy music flows, Creation
brightens!--glory paints the sky, The Sun hath got
an everlasting smile, And Earth in temper'd for
immortal spring-- The lion smoothes his ruffled mane,
the lamb And wolf together feed, and by the den Of
serpents, see! the rosy infant play.

THE SAVIOUR.On the sunny side of the square, opposite the
church, were more houses, high and low; one all garden, 
filled with broken-nosed statues hiding behind
still more magnolias, and another all veranda and
honeysuckle, big rocking-chairs and swinging hammocks; 
and still others with porticos curtained by
white jasmine or Virginia creeper.

Half-way down this stretch of sunshine--and what
a lovely stretch it was--there had stood for years
a venerable mansion with high chimneys, sloping roof,
and quaint dormer-windows, shaded by a tall sycamore 
that spread its branches far across the street.
Two white marble steps guarded by old-fashioned iron
railings led up to the front door, which bore on its
face a silver-plated knocker, inscribed in letters of
black with the name Of its owner--"Richard Horn."
All three, the door, the white marble steps, and the
silver-plated knocker--not to forget the round silver
knobs ornamenting the newel posts of the railings--
were kept as bright as the rest of the family plate by
that most loyal of servants, old Malachi, who daily
soused the steps with soap and water, and then brought
to a phenomenal polish the knocker, bell-pull, and
knobs by means of fuller's-earth, turpentine, hard
breathing, and the vigorous use of a buckskin rag.

If this weazened-faced, bald-headed old darky, resplendent 
in white shirt-sleeves, green baize apron, and
never-ceasing smile of welcome, happened to be engaged 
in this cleansing and polishing process--and it
occurred every morning--and saw any friend of his
master approaching, he would begin removing his pail
and brushes and throwing wide the white door before
the visitor reached the house, would there await his
coming, bent double in profound salutation. Indeed,
whenever Malachi had charge of the front steps he
seldom stood upright, so constantly was he occupied--
by reason of his master's large acquaintance--in either
crooking his back in the beginning of a bow, or
straightening it up in the ending of one.

To one and all inquiries for Mr. Here shone his
glory. Here REASON manifests its laws.

Here the WILL puts forth its volitions. Here is the
crown of IMMORTALITY. Why such endowments? Thus
furnished--the image of Jehovah--is he not capable of
self-government? And is he not to be so treated?
_Within the sphere where the laws of reason place
him_, may he not act according to his choice--carry
out his own volitions?--may he not enjoy life, exult
in freedom and pursue as he will the path of blessedness?
If not, why was he so created and endowed?

Why the mysterious, awful attribute of will?
To be a source, profound as the depths of hell, of
exquisite misery, of keen anguish, of insufferable torment!
Was man formed "according to the image of Jehovah," to be crossed,
thwarted, counteracted; to be forced in upon himself; to be the
sport of endless contradictions; to be driven back and forth forever
between mutually repellant forces; and all, all "_at the discretion
of another!"

_[A] How can men be treated according to his nature,
as endowed with reason or will, if excluded from the powers
and privileges of self government?--if "despotism"
be let loose upon him, to "deprive him of personal
liberty, oblige him to serve at the discretion of
another," and with the power of "transferring"
such "authority" over him and such claim upon him,
to "another master?" If "thousands of enlightened and
good men" can so easily be found, who are forward
to support "despotism" as "of all governments the
best and most acceptable to God," we need not wonder
at the testimony of universal history, that "the whole
creation groaneth and travaileth in pain together until now."

Groans and travail-pangs must continue to be the
order of the day throughout "the whole creation," till
the rod of despotism be broken, and man be
treated as man--as capable of, and entitled to,
self-government.

[Footnote A: Pittsburgh pamphlet, p.12]
But what is the despotism whose horrid features our
smooth professor tries to hide beneath an array of
cunningly-selected words and nicely-adjusted sentences?
It is the despotism of American slavery--which crushes
the very life of humanity out of its victims, and
transforms them to cattle!

At its touch, they sink from men to things!
"Slaves," with Prof. Stuart, "were _property_ in
Greece and Rome. That decides all questions about
their _relation_." Yes, truly.
In the centre of each room was a broad
mantel sheltering an open fireplace, and on cold days
--and there were some pretty cold days about Kennedy 
Square--two roaring wood-fires dispensed comfort, 
the welcoming blaze of each reflected in the shining 
brass fire-irons and fenders.

Adjoining the library was the dining-room with its
well-rubbed mahogany table, straight-backed chairs,
and old sideboard laden with family silver, besides a
much-coveted mahogany cellaret containing some of
that very rare Madeira for which the host was famous.
Here were more easy-chairs and more portraits--one
of Major Horn, who fell at Yorktown, in cocked hat
and epaulets, and two others in mob-caps and ruffles
--both ancient grandmothers of long ago.

The "li'l room ob Marse Richard," to which in the
morning Malachi directed all his master's visitors, was
in an old-fashioned one-story out-house, with a sloping 
roof, that nestled under the shade of a big tulip-
tree in the back yard--a cool, damp, brick-paved old
yard, shut in between high walls mantled with ivy
and Virginia creeper and capped by rows of broken
bottles sunk in mortar. This out-building had once
served as servants' quarters, and it still had the open
fireplace and broad hearth before which many a black
mammy had toasted the toes of her pickaninnies, as
well as the trap-door in the ceiling leading to the loft
where they had slept. Two windows which peered out
from under bushy eyebrows of tangled honeysuckle
gave the only light; a green-painted wooden door,
which swung level with the moist bricks, the only entrance.

It was at this green-painted wooden door that you
would have had to knock to find the man of all others
about Kennedy Square most beloved, and the man
of all others least understood--Richard Horn, the 
distinguished inventor.

Perhaps at the first rap he would have been too
absorbed to hear you. He would have been bending
over his carpenter-bench--his deep, thoughtful eyes
fixed on a drawing spread out before him, the shavings 
pushed back to give him room, a pair of compasses 
held between his fingers. Or he might have
been raking the coals of his forge--set up in the same
fireplace that had warmed the toes of the pickaninnies, 
his long red calico working-gown, which clung
about his spare body, tucked between his knees to
keep it from the blaze. Or he might have been stirring 
a pot of glue--a wooden model in his hand--
or hammering away on some bit of hot iron, the
brown paper cap that hid his sparse gray locks pushed
down over his broad forehead to protect it from the
heat.

When, however, his ear had caught the tap of your
knuckles and he had thrown wide the green door, what
a welcome would have awaited you! How warm the
grasp of his fine old hand; how cordial his greeting.

"Disturb me, my dear sir," he would have said
in answer to your apologies, "that's what I was put
in the world for. I love to be disturbed. Please do
it every day. Come in! Come in! It's delightful to
get hold of your hand."

If you were his friend, and most men who knew
him were, he would have slipped his arm through
your own, and after a brief moment you would have
found yourself poring over a detailed plan, his arm
still in yours, while he showed you the outline of some
pin, or lever, needed to perfect the most marvellous
of all discoveries of modern times--his new galvanic
motor.

Mary's paying the highest rate of wages in the island;
1s. 8d. currency per day nett, with allowances, are
generally offered; I am giving here, from sheer
necessity, 2s. 6d.
currency per day, without charging any rent in the mean
time. In the present state of things when so few
estates are doing anything at all, I have much
satisfaction in saying that the people here, on ----,
a good proportion of them were at work last week,
and I have now the mill about making sugar, with
every probability, I think of going on satisfactorily;
and looking dispassionately at the great change
which has so suddenly taken place, our present difficulties are
not much to be wondered at.

Sunday night, 8th Sept.--The foregoing was
written, but too late, for the last packet; but as
another sails to-morrow, I write you a few lines
more. There is, up to this moment, but little
material alteration in the state of affairs generally,
certainly none for the worse. I have made
here twenty hogsheads of sugar since the 1st ult.
We are altogether in an uncertain state, but there are
more mills about, and more work doing _in this
district than in any other in the island_, which might
and ought to be a feather in the cap of Maitter, our
late stipe. I have no time to say more now,
excepting that, although I am in great hopes that things
will soon generally improve, and am of opinion that
our present difficulties are not to be wondered at,
yet our situation is still so critical, that I dare
not venture to hazard an opinion as to the success
of the great experiment, I repeat, however, again,
that we have not seen anything to disappoint or
surprise us, bad as many things are."
And while he talked you would have listened with
your eyes and ears wide open, and your heart too, and
believed every word he said, no matter how practical
you might have been or how unwilling at first to be
convinced.

On another day perhaps you might have chanced
to knock at his door when some serious complication
had vexed him--a day when the cogs and pulleys
upon which he had depended for certain demonstration 
had become so tangled up in his busy brain that
he had thoughts for nothing else. Then, had he
pushed pack his green door to receive you, his greeting 
might have been as cordial and his welcome as
hearty, but before long you would have found his
eyes gazing into vacancy, or he would have stopped
half-way in an answer to your question, his thoughts
far away. Had you loved him you would then have
closed the green door behind you and left him alone.
Had you remained you would, perhaps, have seen him
spring from his seat and pick up from his work-bench
some unfinished fragment. This he would have
plunged into the smouldering embers of his forge and,
entirely forgetful of your presence, would have seized
the handle of the bellows, his eyes intent on the
blaze, his lips muttering broken sentences. At these
moments, as he would peer into the curling smoke,
one thin hand upraised, the long calico gown wrinkling 
about his spare body, the paper cap on his head,
he would have looked like some alchemist of old, or
weird necromancer weaving a mystic spell. Sometimes, 
as you watched his face, with the glow of the
coals lighting up his earnest eyes, there would have
flashed across his troubled features, as heat lightning
illumines a cloud, some sudden brightness from within 
followed by a quick smile of triumph. The rebellious 
fragment had been mastered. For the hundredth 
time the great motor was a success!

And yet, had this very pin or crank or cog, on
which he had set such store, refused the next hour
or day or week to do its work, no trace of his 
disappointment would have been found in his face or
speech. His faith was always supreme; his belief
in his ideals unshaken. If the pin or crank would
not answer, the lever or pulley would. The next day
when they meet, a polite bow from Mr.
K--g, and if an opportunity offers he enters into
conversation, and thus establishes his
acquaintance.

"Such is his EXTREME method of introducing himself,
which deserves credit for its ingenuity and
exclusiveness. I once knew a man who had only one story, and that
was about a gun. His difficulty was to introduce this story, and
he at last succeeded, like K--g, by the use of his foot. When sitting
after dinner he would stamp under the table and create a hollow
sound.If you had been only a stranger--some savant,
for instance, who wanted a problem in mechanics
solved, or a professor, blinded by the dazzling light of
the almost daily discoveries of the time, in search of
mental ammunition to fire back at curious students
daily bombarding you with puzzling questions; or
had you been a thrifty capitalist, holding back a first
payment until an expert like Richard Horn had
passed upon the merits of some new labor-saving device 
of the day; had you been any one of these, and
you might very easily have been, for such persons
came almost daily to see him, the inventor would not
only have listened to your wants, no matter how absorbed 
he might have been in his own work, but he
would not have allowed you to leave him until he
was sure that your mind was at rest.
She is splendid--confounded plain, but that's no consequence. That
Grisi screams rather too much, although she acts well, and has a
pretty person, if it was washed. I believe Brugnoli's toes are made
of _cast iron_. _Toe_ K--g, could make no impression upon them.