General Flahaut, who had gone to meet the King of Saxony with a part of
the imperial Guard, received from this good king the most flattering
testimonials of appreciation and gratitude.  It is impossible to show
more cordiality and friendliness than the King of Saxony displayed.  The
Emperor said of him and his family that they were a patriarchal family,
and that all who comprised it joined to striking virtues an expansive
kindness of manner which made them adored by their subjects.  His Majesty
paid this royal personage the most affectionate attentions, and as long
as the war lasted sent couriers each day to keep the king informed of the
least circumstance:  He came himself as often as possible, and, in fact,
constantly treated him with that cordiality he so well knew how to
display and to render irresistible when he chose.

A few days after his arrival at Dresden his Majesty held a long
conversation with the King of Saxony, in which the Emperor Alexander was
the principal subject of conversation.

The characteristics and faults of this prince were fully analyzed; and
the conclusion drawn from this conversation was that the Emperor
Alexander had been sincere in the interview at Erfurt, and that it must
have been very complicated intrigues which had thus led to the rupture of
all their treaties of friendship.  "Sovereigns are most unfortunate,"
said his Majesty; "always deceived, always surrounded by flatterers or
treacherous counselors, whose greatest desire is to prevent the truth
from reaching the ears of their masters, who have so much interest in
knowing it."

The two sovereigns next spoke of the Emperor of Austria.  His Majesty
appeared profoundly grieved that his union with the Archduchess Marie
Louise, whom he did all in his power to render the happiest of women,
should have failed in producing the result he had anticipated, of
obtaining for him the confidence and friendship of her father.  "It is
perhaps because I was not born a sovereign," said the Emperor; "and
nevertheless, I should think that this would be an additional inducement
to the friendship of my father-in-law.  I shall never be convinced that
such ties are not strong enough to obtain the alliance of the Emperor of
Austria; for, in fact, I am his son-in-law, my son is his grandson, he
loves his daughter, and she is happy; how, then, can he be my enemy?"

On learning of the victory of Lutzen, and the entrance of the Emperor into
Dresden, the Emperor of Austria hastened to send M. de Bubna to his son-
in-law.  He arrived on the evening of the 16th; and the interview, which
his Majesty immediately granted, lasted until two hours after midnight.
This led us to hope that peace was about to be concluded, and we
consequently formed a thousand conjectures, each more encouraging than
the other; but when two or three days had passed away, and we still
witnessed only preparations for war, we saw that our hopes were cruelly
deceived.  Then it was I heard the unfortunate Marshal Duroc exclaim,
"This is lasting too long!  We will none of us outlive it!"  He had a
presentiment of his own death.

During the whole of this campaign the Emperor had not a moment of repose.
But for the appearance of the carriage, which presented better prey,
it is probable that Maclaine would have shot Mr. Donaldson immediately.
Maclaine a short time after committed a highway robbery, was tried,
found guilty, and hanged at Tyburn.

_Extraordinary Story._
What the religious principles of Mr. Donaldson were, I never knew, but I
am sure he had too manly a mind to give way to superstition.
The following circumstance, however, he told me as a fact in which
he placed full confidence, on account of the character of the gentleman
who related it. The latter was a particular friend of his, and a member
of Parliament. In order to attend the House of Commons, he had taken
apartments in St. Anne's Churchyard, Westminster. On the evening when
he took possession, he was struck with something that appeared to him
mysterious in the manner of the maid-servant, who looked like a man
disguised; and he felt a very unpleasant emotion. This feeling was
strengthened by a similar deportment in the mistress of the house,
who soon after entered his room, and asked him if he wanted anything
before he retired to rest: disliking her manner, he soon dismissed
her, and went to bed, but the disagreeable impression made on his
mind by the maid and mistress, kept him long awake; at length,
however, he fell asleep.

During his sleep he dreamed that the corpse of a gentleman, who had been
murdered, was deposited in the cellar of the house. This dream
co-operating with the unfavourable, or rather repulsive countenances
and demeanour of the two women, precluded all hopes of renewed sleep,
and it being the summer season, he arose about five o'clock in the
morning, took his hat, and resolved to quit a house of such alarm
and terror.

To his surprise, as he was leaving it, he met the mistress in the
entry, dressed, as if she had never gone to bed. She seemed to be much
agitated, and inquired his reason for wishing to go out so early in
the morning.
All the wounded who were able to march were already on the road to
Dresden, where all necessary help awaited them.  But on the field of
battle were stretched more than ten thousand men, Frenchmen, Russians,
Prussians, etc.,--hardly able to breathe, mutilated, and in a most
pitiable condition.  The unremitting labors of the kind and indefatigable
Baron Larrey and the multitude of surgeons encouraged by his heroic
example did not suffice even to dress their wounds.  And what means could
be found to remove the wounded in this desolate country, where all the
villages had been sacked and burned, and where it was no longer possible
to find either horses or conveyances?  Must they then let all these men
perish after most horrible sufferings, for lack of means to convey them
to Dresden?

It was then that this population of Saxon villagers, who it might have
been thought must be embittered by the horrors of war,--in seeing their
dwellings burned, their fields ravaged,--furnished to the army an example
of the sublime sentiments which pity can inspire in the heart of man.
They perceived the cruel anxiety which M. Larrey and his companions
suffered concerning the fate of so many unfortunate wounded, and
immediately men, women, children, and even old men, hastily brought
wheelbarrows.  The wounded were lifted, and placed on these frail
conveyances.  Two or three persons accompanied each wheelbarrow all the
way to Dresden, halting if by a cry or gesture even, the wounded
indicated a desire to rest, stopping to replace the bandages which the
motion had displaced, or near a spring to give them water to allay the
fever which devoured them.  I have never seen a more touching sight.

Baron Larrey had an animated discussion with the Emperor.  Among the
wounded, there were found a large number of young soldiers with two
fingers of their right hand torn off; and his Majesty thought that these
poor young fellows had done it purposely to keep from serving.  Having
said this to M. Larrey, the latter vehemently exclaimed that it was an
impossibility, and that such baseness was not in keeping with the
character of these brave young conscripts.  As the Emperor still
maintained his position, Larrey at length became so angry that he went so
far as to tax the Emperor with injustice.  Things were in this condition
when it was positively proved that these uniform wounds came from the
haste with which these young soldiers loaded and discharged their guns,
not being accustomed to handling them.  Whereupon his Majesty saw that M.
de Larrey was right, and praised him for his firmness in maintaining what
he, knew to be the truth.  "You are a thoroughly good man, M. de Larrey,"
said the Emperor.  "I wish I could be surrounded only with men like you;
but such men are very rare."


CHAPTER XII.

We had now reached the eve of the day on which the Emperor, still deeply
affected by the loss he had sustained in the death of the Duke of Istria,
was to receive a blow which he felt perhaps most keenly of all those
which struck deep into his heart as he saw his old companions in arms
fall around him.  The day following that on which the Emperor had, with
Baron Larrey, the discussion which I related at the end of the preceding
chapter was made memorable by the irreparable loss of Marshal Duroc.  The
Emperor's heart was crushed; and indeed not one of us failed to shed
sincere tears--so just and good was he, although grave and severe in his
manner towards persons whom the nature of their duties brought into
contact with him.  It was a loss not only to the Emperor, who possessed
in him a true friend, but, I dare to assert, also to the whole of France.
He loved the Emperor with a passionate devotion, and never failed to
bestow on him his faithful admonitions, although they were not always
heeded.  The death of Marshal Duroc was an event so grievous and so
totally unexpected, that we remained for some time uncertain whether to
believe it, even when the only too evident reality no longer permitted us
to remain under any delusion.

These are the circumstances under which this fatal event occurred which
spread consternation throughout the army: The Emperor was pursuing the
rear guard of the Russians, who continually eluded him, and had just
escaped for the tenth time since the morning, after having killed and
taken prisoners large numbers of our brave soldiers, when two or three
shells dug up the ground at the Emperor's feet, and caused him to
exclaim, "What! after such butchery no result! no prisoners! those men
there will not leave me a nail."  Hardly had he finished speaking when a
shell passed, and threw a chasseur of the cavalry escort almost under the
legs of his Majesty's horse.  "Ah, Duroc," added he, turning towards the
grand marshal, "fortune protects us to-day."--"Sire," said an aide-
decamp, rushing, up at a gallop, "General Bruyeres has just been killed."
"My poor comrade of Italy!  Is it possible?  Ah! it is necessary to push
on, nevertheless."  And noticing on the left an elevation from which he
could better observe what was passing, the Emperor started in that
direction amidst a cloud of dust.  The Duke of Vicenza, the Duke of
Treviso, Marshal Duroc, and general of engineers Kirgener followed his
Majesty closely; but the wind raised such a cloud of dust and smoke that
they could hardly see each other.  Suddenly a tree near which the Emperor
passed was struck by a shell and cut in half.  His Majesty, on reaching
the plateau, turned to ask for his field-glass, and saw no one near him
except the Duke of Vicenza.  Duke Charles de Plaisance came up, his face
showing a mortal pallor, leaned towards the grand equerry, and said a few
words in his ear.  "What is it?"  vehemently inquired the Emperor; "what
has happened?"--"Sire," said the Duke of Plaisance, weeping, "the grand
marshal is dead!"--"Duroc?  But you must be mistaken.  He was here a
moment ago by my side."  Several aides-de-camp arrived, and a page with
his Majesty's field-glass.  The fatal news was confirmed, in part at
least.  The Grand Duke of Frioul was not yet dead; but the shell had
wounded him in the stomach, and all surgical aid would be useless.  The
shell after breaking the tree had glanced, first striking General
Kirgener, who was instantly killed, and then the Duke of Frioul.
Monsieurs Yvan and Larrey were with the wounded marshal, who had been
carried into a house at Markersdorf.  There was no hope of saving him.

The consternation of the army and his Majesty's grief on this deplorable
event were indescribable.  He mechanically gave a few orders and returned
to camp, and when he had reached the encampment of the guard, seated
himself on a bench in front of his tent, with lowered head and clasped
hands, and remained thus for nearly an hour without uttering a word.
Since it was nevertheless essential that orders should be given for the
next day, General Drouot approached,

     [Count Antoine Drouot, chief of artillery of the guard, born at
     Nancy, 1774; fought as captain at Hohenlinden,1800; distinguished
     himself at Wagram (1809) and Borodino (1812); made general of
     division at Bautzen, 1813; went to Elba as commander of the guard,
     and was by the Emperor's side at Waterloo; died in 1847.  He was a
     Protestant, and was often seen during heavy firing reading his
     Testament calmly.]

and in a voice interrupted by sobs asked what should be done.  "To-
morrow, everything," replied the Emperor, and said not a word more.
"Poor man!" exclaimed the old watchdogs of the guard; "he has lost one of
his children."  Night closed in.  The enemy was in full retreat; and the
army having taken its position, the Emperor left the camp, and,
accompanied by the Prince de Neuchatel, M. Yvan, and the Duke of Vicenza,
repaired to the house where the grand marshal had been conveyed.  The
scene was terrible.  The Emperor, distracted with grief, repeatedly
embraced this faithful friend, endeavoring to cheer him; but the duke,
who was perfectly conscious of his condition, replied only by entreaties
to have opium given him.  At these words the Emperor left the room; he
could no longer control his emotions.

The Duke de Frioul died next morning; and the Emperor ordered that his
body should be conveyed to Paris, and paced under the dome of the
Invalides.

     [On either side of the entrance to the sarcophagus of porphyry
     which holds the mortal remains of the great Emperor, rest Duroc and
     Bertrand, who in life watched over him as marshals of his Palace.-
     TRANS.]

He bought the house in which the grand marshal died, and charged the
pastor of the village to have a stone placed in the spot where his bed
had stood, and these words engraved thereon:

                  "HERE GENERAL DUROC, DUKE OF FRIOUL,
          GRAND MARSHAL OF THE PALACE OF THE EMPEROR NAPOLEON,
                      MORTALLY WOUNDED BY A SHELL,
             DIED IN THE ARMS OF HIS FRIEND, THE EMPEROR."

The preservation of this monument was imposed as an obligation on the
occupant of the house, who received it as a gift with this condition
annexed.  The pastor, the magistrate of the village, and the one who
accepted this gift, were summoned to his Majesty's presence; and he made
known to them his wishes, which they solemnly engaged to fulfill.  His
Majesty then drew from his privy purse the necessary funds, and handed
them to these gentlemen.

It is well that the reader should know how this agreement so solemnly
made was executed.  This order of the Russian staff will inform him.

     "A copy of a receipt dated the 16th (28th) of March states that the
     Emperor Napoleon handed to Hermann, pastor of the church at
     Markersdorf, the sum of two hundred gold napoleons for the purpose
     of erecting a monument to the memory of Marshal Duroc, who died on
     the field of battle.  His Excellency Prince Repnin, Governor-General
     of Saxony, having ordered that a deputy from my office be sent to
     Markersdorf in order to bring the said sum and deposit it with me
     until it is finally disposed of, my secretary, Meyerheim, is charged
     with this mission, and consequently will go at once to Dlarkersdorf,
     and, as an evidence of his authority, will present to Minister
     Hermann the accompanying order, and take possession of the above
     mentioned sum of two hundred gold napoleons.  The secretary
     Meyerheim will account to me alone for the execution of this order.
     At Dresden this 20th of March (1st of April), 1814.

                                   "(Signed) BARON DE ROSEN."


This order needs no comment.  After the battles of Bautzen and Wurschen,
the Emperor entered Silesia.  He saw on every occasion combined armies of
the allies put to flight before his own in every encounter; and this
sight, while flattering his vanity exceedingly, also greatly strengthened
him in the belief that he would soon find himself master of a rich and
fertile country, where the abundant means of subsistence would be of much
advantage in all his undertakings.  Many times a day he exclaimed, "How
far are we from such a town?  When do we arrive at Breslau?  "His
impatience did not prevent him meanwhile from" occupying his mind with
every object which struck his attention, as if he were free from all
care.  He examined the houses, one by one, as he passed through each
village, remarked the direction of rivers and mountain ranges, and
collected the most minute information which the inhabitants could or
would give him.  On the 27th of May, his Majesty, when not more than
three days march from Breslau, met in front of a little town called
Michelsdorf several regiments of Russian cavalry who held the road.  They
were quite near the Emperor and his staff before his Majesty had even
perceived them.  The Prince de Neuchatel, seeing the enemy so near,
hastened to the Emperor, and said, "Sire, they are still advancing."--
"Well, we will advance also," replied his Majesty, smiling.  "Look behind
you-" And he showed the prince the French infantry approaching in close
columns.  A few discharges soon drove the Russians from this position;
but half a league or a league farther we found them again, and this
maneuver was again and again repeated.  The Emperor, perceiving this,
maneuvered accordingly, and in person directed with the greatest
precision the troops as they advanced.  He went from one height to
another, and thoroughly inspected the towns and villages on the route in
order to reconnoiter their position, and ascertain what resources he
could obtain from the country; and, as a result of his attentive care and
indefatigable oversight, the scene changed ten times a day.  If a column
emerged from a deep ravine, a wood, or a village, it could take immediate
possession of a height, since a battery was found already in position to
defend it.  The Emperor indicated every movement with admirable tact, and
in such a manner that it was impossible to be taken at a disadvantage.
He commanded only the troops as a whole, transmitting either personally,
or through his staff officers, his orders to the commander of the corps
and divisions, who in their turn transmitted or had them transmitted to
the chiefs of battalions.  All orders given by his Majesty were short,
precise, and so clear that it was never necessary to ask explanations.

On the 29th of May, not knowing how far on the road to Breslau it was
prudent to advance, his Majesty established himself on a little farm
called Rosnig, which had been pillaged, and presented a most miserable
aspect.  As there could be found in the house only a small apartment with
a closet suitable for the Emperor's use, the Prince de Neuchatel and his
suite established themselves as well as they could in the surrounding
cottages, barns, and even in the gardens, since there was not sufficient
shelter for all.  The next day a fire broke out in a stable near the
lodging of the Emperor.  There were fourteen or fifteen wagons in this
barn, which were all burned.  One of these wagons contained the traveling
treasury chest; in another were the clothes and linen belonging to the
Emperor, as well as jewelry, rings, tobacco boxes, and other valuable
objects.  We saved very few things from this fire; and if the reserve
corps had not arrived promptly, his Majesty would have been obliged to
change his customary toilet rules for want of stockings and shirts.  The
Saxon Major d'Odeleben, who has written some interesting articles on this
campaign, states that everything belonging to his Majesty was burned; and
that it was necessary to have him some pantaloons made in the greatest
haste at Breslau.  This is a mistake.  I do not think that the baggage-
wagon was burned; but even if it had been, the Emperor would not on that
account have needed clothing, since there were always four or five
complete suits either in advance or in the rear of the headquarters.
In Russia, when the order was given to burn all carriages which lacked
horses, this order was rigorously executed in regard to the persons of
the household, and they were consequently left with almost nothing; but
everything was reserved which might be considered indispensable to his
Majesty.

At length on the 1st of June, at six o'clock in the morning, the advance
guard entered Breslau, having at its head General Lauriston, and General
Hogendorp, whom his Majesty had invested in advance with the functions of
governor of this town, which was the capital of Silesia.  Thus was
fulfilled in part the promise the Emperor had made in passing through
Warsaw on his return from Russia: "I go to seek three hundred thousand
men.  Success will render the Russians bold.  I will deliver two battles
between the Elbe and the Oder, and in six months I will be again on the
Niemen."

These two battles fought and gained by conscripts, and without cavalry,
had re-established the reputation of the French army.  The King of Saxony
had been brought back in triumph to his capital.  Your hand, sir. I'll stand
by you, sir--though I never spoke t' you b'fore in my life. Let us shake
hands, sir."
But instead of waiting for this last shake, Mr. BUMSTEAD abruptly
turns away to the nearest chair, deposits his hat in the very middle of
the seat with great care, and recklessly sits down upon it.

The lemon tea in the bowl upon the table is a fruity compound, consisting
of two very thin slices of lemon, which are maintained in horizontal
positions, for the free action of the air upon their upper surfaces, by
a pint of whiskey procured for that purpose.

About half a pint of hot water has been added to help soften the rind of
the lemon, and a portion of sugar to correct its acidity.

With a wave of the hand toward this tropical preserve, Judge SWEENEY says:
"You have a reputation, sir, as a man of taste. Try some lemon tea."
Energetically, if not frantically, his guest holds out a tumbler to be
filled, immediately after which he insists upon shaking hands again.
"You're a man of insight, sir," he says, working Judge SWEENEY back and
forth in his chair. "I _am_ a man of taste, sir, and you know the world,
sir."
"The _World_?" says Judge SWEENEY, complacently. "If you mean the
religious female daily paper of that name, I certainly do know it.

I used to take it for my late wife when she was trying to learn Latin."

"I mean the terrestrial globe, sir," says Mr. BUMSTEAD, irritably.
"The great spherical foundation, sir, upon which Boston has since been
built."
"Ah, I see," says Judge SWEENEY, genially, "I believe, though, that I
know that world, also, pretty well; for, if I have not exactly been to
foreign countries, foreign countries have come to me. They have come to
me on--hem!--business, and I have improved my opportunities. A man comes
to me from a vessel, and I say 'Cork,' and give him Naturalization
Certificates for himself and his friends. Another comes, and I say 'Dublin;'
another, and I say 'Belfast.' If I want to travel still further, I
take them all together and say 'the Polls.'"

"You'll do to travel, sir," responds Mr. BUMSTEAD, abstractedly helping
himself to some more lemon tea; "but I thought we were to talk about
the late Mrs. SWEENEY."
"We were, sir," says Judge SWEENEY, abstractedly removing the bowl to a
sideboard on his farther side. "My late wife, young man, as you may
be aware, was a Miss HAGGERTY, and was imbued with homage to Shape. It
was rumored, sir, that she admired me for my Manly Shape. When I offered
to make her my bride, the only words she could articulate were, "O,
my!
_I_?"--meaning that she could scarcely believe that I really meant
_her_. After which she fell into strong hysterics. We were married,
despite certain objections on the score of temperance by that corrupt
Radical, her father. From looking up to me too much she contracted
an affection of the spine, and died about nine months ago.

Now, sir, be good enough to run your eye over this Epitaph, which I have
composed for the monument now erecting to her memory."
Mr. BUMSTEAD, rousing from a doze for the purpose, fixes glassy
eyes upon the slip of paper held out to him, and reads as
follows:

MARY ANN, 
Unlitigating and Unliterary Wife of
HIS HONOR, JUDGE SWEENEY.

In the darkest hours of
Her Husband's fortunes
She was never once tempted to Write for
THE TRIBUNE, THE INDEPENDENT, or THE RIVERSIDE MAGAZINE:

Nor did even a disappointment about a
new bonnet ever induce her to
threaten her husband with
AN INDIANA DIVORCE.

STRANGER, PAUSE,
and consider if thou canst say

the same about
THINE OWN WIFE!

If not,
WITH A RUSH RETIRE.

Mr. BUMSTEAD, affected to tears, interspersed with nods, by his
reading, has barely time to mutter that such a wife was too good
to live long in these days, when the servant announces that "MCLAUGHLIN
has come, sir."
JOHN MCLAUGHLIN, who now enters, is a stone-cutter and mason, much
employed in patching dilapidated graves and cutting inscriptions,
and popularly known in Bumsteadville, on account of the dried mortar
perpetually hanging about him, as "Old Mortarity." He is a ricketty
man, with a chronic disease called bar-roomatism, and so very
grave-yardy in his very '_Hic_' that one almost expects a _jacet_
to follow it as a matter of course.
"JOHN MCLAUGHLIN," says Judge SWEENEY, handing him the paper with
the Epitaph, "there is the inscription for the stone."
"I guess I can get it all on, sir," says MCLAUGHLIN. "Your servant,
Mr.
BUMSTEAD."
"Ah, JOHN MCLAUGHLIN, how are you?" says Mr. BUMSTEAD, his hand
with the tumbler vaguely wandering toward where the bowl formerly
stood. "By the way, JOHN MCLAUGHLIN, how came you to be called 'Old
Mortarity'?All these actors arrived on the 19th of June, and found every arrangement
made for their comfort,--tastefully furnished lodgings, carriages,
servants, everything which could enable them to agreeably endure the
ennui of a residence in a foreign land, and prove to them at the same
time how highly his Majesty appreciated their talents; an appreciation
which most of them richly merited, both on account of their excellent
social qualities, and the nobility and refinement of their manners.

The debut of the French troupe at the theater of the Orangery took place
on the 22d of June, in the 'Gageure Imprevue', and another piece, then
much in vogue at Paris, and which has often since been witnessed with
much pleasure, 'La Suite d'un Bal Masque'.

As the theater of the Orangery would have been too small for the
representation of tragedy, that was reserved for the grand theater of the
city; and persons were admitted on those occasions only by cards from the
Count of Turenne, no admission fee being charged.

At the grand theater on the days of the French play, and also in the
theater at the Marcolini palace, the footmen of his Majesty attended upon
the boxes, and served refreshments while the piece was being played.

This is how the days were spent after the arrival of the actors of the
French theater.

Everything was quiet until eight o'clock in the morning, unless a courier
arrived, or some aide-de-camp was unexpectedly summoned.  At eight
o'clock I dressed the Emperor; at nine he held his levee, which all could
attend who held as high a rank as colonel.  --You have been misinformed.
General BUTLER was not a participator in the Battle of Five Forks,
though more than that number of Spoons has been laid to his
charge.

_Anxious Parent_.--Probably the publication to which you refer is the one
entitled "Freedom of the Mind in Willing," not "Freedom of the Will
in Minding." It is not written for the encouragement of recalcitrant
boys.

_Confectioner_, (San Francisco.)--Mr. BEECHER, who wrote the article on
candy, in the _Ledger_, lives in Brooklyn, a town of some importance
not far from this city.

The Nose and the Rose.
The pink-lined parasols now in fashion were devised by some thoughtful
improver of woman, to enhance beauty by imparting a roseate hue to
the complexion.The Emperor often dined alone with the
Prince de Neuchatel, unless there were guests from the royal family of
Saxony.  After dinner they attended the theater, when there was a play;
and afterwards the Emperor returned to his cabinet to work again, either
alone or with his secretaries.

Each day it was the same thing, unless, which was very rarely the case,
fatigued beyond measure by the labors of the day, the Emperor took a
fancy to send for Madame Georges after the tragedy.  Then she passed two
or three hours in his apartment, but never more.

Sometimes the Emperor invited Talma or Mademoiselle Mars to breakfast.
One day, in a conversation with this admirable actress, the Emperor spoke
to her concerning her debut.  "Sire," said she, in that graceful manner
which every one remembers, "I began very young.  I slipped in without
being perceived."--"Without being perceived!" replied his Majesty
quickly; "you are mistaken.  Be assured moreover, Mademoiselle, that I
have always, in common with all France, highly appreciated your wonderful
talents."

The Emperor's stay at Dresden brought wealth and abundance.  More than
six million francs of foreign money were spent in this city between the
8th of May and 16th of November, if one can believe the statements
published on Saxon authority of the number of lodgings distributed.  This
sojourn was a harvest of gold, which keepers of boarding-houses, hotels,
and merchants carefully reaped.  Those in charge of military lodgings
furnished by the inhabitants also made large profits.  At Dresden could
be seen Parisian tailors and bootmakers, teaching the natives to work in
the French style.  Even bootblacks were found on the bridges over the
Elbe, crying, as they had cried on the bridges of the Seine, "Shine your
boots!"

Around the city numerous camps had been established for the wounded,
convalescents, etc.  One of these, called the Westphalian camp, presented
a most beautiful scene.  It was a succession of beautiful small gardens;
there a fortress made of turf, its bastions crowned with hortensias; here
a plot had been converted into a terrace, its walks ornamented with
flowers, like the most carefully tended parterre; on a third was seen a
statue of Pallas.  The whole barrack was decked with moss, and decorated
with boughs and garlands which were renewed each day.

As the armistice would end on the 15th of August, the fete of his Majesty
was advanced five days.  The army, the town, and the court had made
extensive preparations in order that the ceremony might be worthy of him
in whose honor it was given.  All the richest and most distinguished
inhabitants of Dresden vied with each other in balls, concerts,
festivities, and rejoicings of all sorts.  The morning before the day of
the review, the King of Saxony came to the residence of the Emperor with
all his family, and the two sovereigns manifested the warmest friendship
for each other.  They breakfasted together, after which his Majesty,
accompanied by the King of Saxony, his brothers and nephews, repaired to
the meadow behind the palace, where fifteen thousand men of the guard
awaited him in as fine condition as on the most brilliant parades on the
Champ-de-Mars.

After the review, the French and Saxon troops dispersed through the
various churches to hear the Te Deum; and at the close of the religious
ceremony, all these brave soldiers seated themselves at banqueting tables
already prepared, and their joyous shouts with music and dancing were
prolonged far into the night.


You had better go to FLORENCE for information on the subject.

_R.G. White_.--It was a happy thought of yours to apply to PUNCHINELLO for
information regarding Shaksperean readings. To your first question,
"Was SHAKSPEARE'S RICHARD III a gourmand?" we reply: undoubtedly he was.
By adopting what is obviously the correct reading of the passage--"Shadows
to-night," etc., it will be seen that "DICKON" was occasionally a sufferer
from heavy suppers:

----"Shad-roes to-night Have struck more terror to the soul of RICHARD."

Then, to your second query, "Was SHAKSPEARE'S RICHARD III a cannibal?"
our answer is: Certainly he was. Following the above quotation we
have the line, "Than can the substance," etc.This
distrust, as might be expected, did not tend to produce a final.
reconciliation, and, being the conquering party, the Emperor was
naturally irritated by it; nevertheless, under these grave circumstances
he conquered the just resentment caused by the conduct of the Emperor of
Russia towards himself.  The result of the time lost at Dresden, like the
prolongation of our sojourn at Moscow, was a great advantage to the
enemy.

All hopes of a peaceful adjustment of affairs now having vanished, on the
15th of August the Emperor ordered his carriage; we left Dresden, and the
war recommenced.  The French army was still magnificent and imposing,
with a force of two hundred thousand infantry, but only forty thousand
cavalry, as it had been entirely impossible to repair completely the
immense loss of horses that had been sustained.  The most serious danger
at that time arose from the fact that England was the soul of the
coalition of Russia, Prussia, and Sweden against France.  Her subsidies
having obtained her the supreme control, nothing could be decided without
consulting her; and I have since learned that even during the pretended
negotiations the British government had declared to the Emperor of Russia
that under the circumstances the conditions of the treaty of Luneville
would be far too favorable to France.  The_ PLAUSIBLE VILLAIN _goes through
with a complicated fit of St. Vitus's Dance, by way of preserving a cool
exterior, and thus allaying the suspicions of_ PETER. _Various_
TEDIOUS PEOPLE _enter and converse tediously with the_ IRRELEVANT
PEOPLE.I should, moreover, call attention to the fact that what
contributed to render our position extremely critical in case of reverses
was that Prussia waged on us not simply a war of regular armies, but that
it had now assumed the character of a national war, by the calling out of
the Zandwehr and Zandsturm which made the situation far more dangerous
than against the tactics of the best disciplined army.  To so many other
complications was added the fear, soon only too well justified, of seeing
Austria from an inoffensive and unbiased mediator become a declared
enemy.

