Distributed Proofreading Team (http://www.pgdp.net) from digital material
generously made available by Internet Archive/American Libraries
(http://www.archive.org/details/americana)


Note: Images of the original pages are available through
      Internet Archive/American Libraries. See
      http://www.archive.org/details/crookedhouse00flemiala


THE CROOKED HOUSE

by

BRANDON FLEMING


New York
Edward J. Clode

Copyright, 1921, by
Edward J. Clode
Printed in the United States of America


CONTENTS


CHAPTER                                      PAGE

     I A STRANGE RIDDLE                        9

    II THE CROOKED HOUSE                      19

   III THE ENDLESS GARDEN                     33

    IV DESTRUCTION                            45

     V COPPLESTONE                            53

    VI THE TRAIL OF CORPSES                   65

   VII TRANTER                                71

  VIII MRS. ASTLEY-ROLFE                      80

    IX THE DANSEUSE                           83

     X MR. GLUCKSTEIN                         85

    XI THE CLERGYMAN                          87

   XII MR. BOLSOVER                           89

  XIII THE TRINITY OF DEATH                   92

   XIV WITHOUT TRACE                         105

    XV A BUILDER OF MEN                      117

   XVI A TRIPLE ALLIANCE                     133

  XVII MR. GLUCKSTEIN IN CONFIDENCE          142

 XVIII THE WIT OF THE PINK LADY              151

   XIX DETAINED ON SUSPICION                 159

    XX THE BIRTH OF THE KILLER               176

   XXI A HASTY FLIGHT                        187

  XXII TRANTER ATTACKS THE CROOKED HOUSE     195

 XXIII A DUEL                                203

  XXIV THE SECRET OF THE HOUSE               220

   XXV TRUER COLORS                          233

  XXVI PROVIDING FOR THE WORST               241

 XXVII THE DISAPPEARANCE OF TRANTER      250

XXVIII IN PURSUIT                            259

  XXIX ETHICS OF KILLING                     262

   XXX MONSIEUR DUPONT'S TASK                273

  XXXI WHAT THEY HEARD                       279

 XXXII THE BEAUTY-KILLER                     288

XXXIII LAST TRUTHS                           291

 XXXIV CONCLUSION                            312


THE CROOKED HOUSE


CHAPTER I

A STRANGE RIDDLE


"Monsieur Tranter! A moment!"

The Right-Honorable John Tranter swung round, latch-key in hand. Behind
him, an enormous figure emerged, with surprisingly agile and noiseless
steps, from the shadow of the adjoining house--a figure almost grotesque
and monstrous in the dim light of the street lamp. The very hugeness of
the apparition was so disconcerting that John Tranter drew back with a
startled exclamation.

"Good Lord! Monsieur Dupont? You in London?"

Monsieur Dupont described circles with his country's largest silk hat.

"I in London! An event, my friend, in the history of your city!"

He laughed softly, and replaced the hat on his head. They shook hands
warmly.

"This is a delightful surprise," Tranter said, turning back to the door.
"Come in."

"It is late," Monsieur Dupont apologized--"but I entreat a moment. It is
three hours only since I arrived, and I have passed one of them on your
doorstep."

"An hour?" Tranter exclaimed. "But surely----"

Monsieur Dupont squeezed himself into the narrow hall with difficulty.

"I possess the gift of patience," he claimed modestly. "In London it is
of great value."

In the small library he looked about him with surprise. The plain,
almost scanty furniture of Tranter's house evidently did not accord with
his expectations of the residence of an English Privy Councillor.
Monsieur Dupont sat down on a well-worn leather couch, and stared,
somewhat blankly, at the rows of dull, monotonous bindings in the simple
mahogany bookcases.

He placed the drink Tranter mixed for him on a small table by his side,
accepted a cigar, and puffed at it serenely. And in that position,
Monsieur Victorien Dupont presented a pleasing picture of elephantine
geniality. He was so large that his presence seemed to fill half the
room. His great face was one tremendous smile. His eyes, though capable
of a disconcertingly direct gaze, were clear and even childlike. His
English was perfect, his evening-dress faultless, and, though obviously
a _bon-viveur_, he was also unmistakably a man with a purpose.

"And what has brought you to London?" Tranter asked, sitting opposite to
him.

"My friend," said Monsieur Dupont, "I am here with a remarkable object.
I have come to use the eyes the good God has given me. And to do so I
beg the assistance of the great position the good God has given you."

"I hope," Tranter returned, "that what you require will enable me to
make some sort of return to the man who saved my life."

Monsieur Dupont waved his hands in a gigantic gesture.

"To restore to the world one of its great men--it was a privilege for
which I, myself, should pay! The service I ask of you is small."

"You have but to name it," said the Privy Councillor.

       *       *       *       *       *

Suddenly there was no smile on Monsieur Dupont's face. Without the smile
it was a very much less pleasant face.

"Two years ago, in my own country," his voice acquired a new snap, "some
one asked me a riddle."

"A riddle?" Tranter echoed, surprised at the change.

"A very strange riddle. Unfortunately, I cannot tell you what it was. I
cannot tell any one what it was. I undertook to find the answer. From
France the riddle took me far away to another country--and there, after
a year's work, I found half the answer. The other half is in London. And
I am in London to find it."

"This is interesting," said Tranter, smiling slightly at the huge
Frenchman's intense seriousness.

"You, my friend, can help me."

"I am at your service," the other promised.

Monsieur Dupont half-emptied his glass, and the smile began to reappear
on his face in gradual creases. In a moment the shadow had vanished. He
laughed like a jolly giant.

"Ah, forgive me! I had almost committed the crime to be serious. It is a
fault that is easy in your London."

"What do you want me to do for you?" Tranter asked.

"I want," said Monsieur Dupont, "to be taken with you, as your friend
from Paris, to one or two society functions--where I may be likely to
meet ... what I seek."

Tranter was somewhat taken aback.

"Unconsciously," he returned--"though of course, I will make it my
business to fulfill your wishes--you have really asked me a difficult
thing. No man goes less into society than I do. Most people have given
up inviting me."

"Forgive me," said Monsieur Dupont again. "I had imagined I should be
asking a thing the most simple."

"So you are," Tranter assured him. "The fault is with me. Where women
are concerned I am utterly hopeless. I fly from a pretty woman as you
might fly from a crocodile."

"An ugly woman," said Monsieur Dupont, "is the real friend of man--if he
would but know it."

"The dull family dinners of dull family people are the only 'functions'
I ever attend. However, let me see what can be done for you." Tranter
rose, and with an amused expression began to sort out a small pile of
cards on the mantel-piece.

Monsieur Dupont smiled on. He emptied his glass, and inhaled the smoke
of his excellent cigar with all the enjoyment of a satisfied
connoisseur. His glance played from one article of furniture to another,
from the floor to the ceiling, from bookcase to bookcase, from picture
to picture. The very plainness of the room seemed to fascinate him. His
gaze sought out the ugliest picture, and became fixed on it. Tranter
turned over all the cards, and shrugged his shoulders helplessly.

"In a couple of days I shall be able to fix you up a dozen times over,"
he said. "But I am afraid I have scarcely anything to offer you for
to-morrow night. Why didn't you drop me a line in advance?"

"Let us dispense with to-morrow night, then," said Monsieur Dupont.

Tranter ran through the cards again.

"There is a dinner at Lord Crumbleton's--which I have too much regard
for you to suggest. The Countess is a most estimable lady, who has spent
the last fifteen years in vain attempts to become unfaithful to her
husband, and now reads the Apocrypha all day for stimulation. You could
dine with a high-church clergyman who absolves sins, or an actor-manager
who commits them. But stay----" he paused quickly. "I forgot. There is
something else." He sorted out a card. "Here is a possibility of
amusement that had escaped me."

"Ah!" said Monsieur Dupont.

"George Copplestone has favored me with an invitation to a select
gathering at his house at Richmond, which would be very much more likely
to provide answers to riddles. I never accept Copplestone's invitations
on principle--although he goes on sending them. But, if you like, I will
break my rule, and take you. It is sure to be entertaining, if nothing
more."

Monsieur Dupont bowed his gratitude. Tranter replaced the cards, and
returned to his seat.

"Copplestone is a remarkable individual, who has learnt what a multitude
of sins even a slight financial connection with the Theater will cover.
He puts various sums of money into the front of the house to gain
unquestioned admission to the back. He has an extraordinary taste for
fantasy, and is always startling his friends with some new eccentricity.
He is not generally considered to be a desirable acquaintance--and
certainly no man in London has less regard for the conventions."

"To confine myself to desirable acquaintances," said Monsieur Dupont,
"would be my last wish."

"Then we will go to Richmond to-morrow night. He lives in a very strange
house, in a stranger garden--the sort of place that no ordinary normal
person could possibly live in. And I warn you that you will find nothing
ordinary or normal in it. If you are interested in some of the
unaccountable vagaries of human nature, you will enjoy yourself."

"The unaccountable vagaries of human nature," said Monsieur Dupont, "are
the foundation of my riddle."

"Then," Tranter returned, "I could give you no better chance to solve
it. In addition, you will probably make the acquaintance of a certain
pretty society widow, who wants to marry him because of his vices, and
one or two other well-known people who owe him money and can't afford to
refuse to dine with him. Also, as the invitation is an unusually
pressing one, we can rely on the introduction of some unexpected freaks
for our entertainment."

"It is arranged," Monsieur Dupont declared, "I go with you to Richmond."

"Very well," Tranter agreed. "Call for me here at eight o'clock, and we
will go. Help yourself to another drink."

Monsieur Dupont helped himself to another drink.


CHAPTER II

THE CROOKED HOUSE


It was no unusual thing for George Copplestone to spring surprises on
his guests. He had a twisted sense of the dramatic, and twisted things
were expected from him. On some occasions he perpetrated the wildest and
most extravagant eccentricities, without the slightest regard for the
moral or artistic sensibilities of those on whom he imposed them--on
others he contented himself with less harrowing minor freaks--but the
object of thoroughly upsetting and confounding the mental balances of
his victims was invariably achieved. He delighted, and displayed
remarkable ingenuity, in providing orgies of the abnormal. He reveled in
producing an atmosphere of brain-storm, and in dealing sledge-hammer
blows at the intellects of his better balanced acquaintances. Often he
was in uncontrollable spirits--on fire with mental and physical
exuberance--sometimes he was morose and silent, and apparently weak.
Frequently he disappeared for considerable periods, and his house
appeared to be closed. But none saw his coming or going.

Strange rumors circulated about him from time to time. [Illustration:
J. A. DE THOU.]

CHAPTER XIV.

DE THOU--PINELLI--PEIRESC.

It was long a saying among the French that a man had never seen Paris who
had not looked upon the books of Thuanus. The historian Jacques-Auguste
de Thou held a leading place in literature, without pretending in
any way to rival the greatness of Joseph Scaliger or the erudition
of Isaac Casaubon.

He was the master of a great store of personal and secret history
collected in state papers and records; but he was also famous
for the extent of his general scholarship, and for the patronage which
he manifested towards all who laboured about books. He was himself a
most fastidious collector. He never heard of the appearance of a
valuable work without ordering three or four copies on the fine paper
manufactured for his private use; and of any such book already issued
he would order several sets of sheets to be taken to pieces in order to
procure one perfect example. His library was not large. It consisted
of about 8000 printed books and 1000 manuscripts, chiefly upon historical
subjects; but they were all well selected, well bound, and in perfect
condition. There is a letter upon this subject by Henri Estienne the
printer, in which the high reputation of De Thou's library is
contrasted with Lucian's just invective against the illiterate
book-hunter: 'The satirist would have honoured a man like you, so
learned and so generous in your library: you choose your books with
taste, and proportion the cost of binding to the price of the volume;
and Lucian, I am sure, would have praised your carefulness in these
respects.'

In all matters connected with literature De Thou was helped by his
friend 'Pithoeus,' of whom it was said that no one knew any
particular author as well as Pierre Pithou knew all the classics.
By talent and hard work combined Pithou had 'distilled the quintessence
of wisdom' out of the garnered stores of antiquity. Upon his death De
Thou was inclined to give up his books and the work that had made life
pleasant. He wrote in that strain to his associate Isaac Casaubon. 'On
the loss of my incomparable friend, the partner of my cares and my
counsellor in letters and politics, the web that I was weaving
fell from my hand, and I should not have resumed my history were
it not a tribute to the memory of one who has done so much for me.'

De Thou's end was hastened by the death of his wife. Those who
know the look of his books, stamped with a series of his family
quarterings, will remember that he was first married to Marie Barbançon,
and afterwards to Gasparde de la Chastre. 'I had always hoped and prayed,'
he wrote at the commencement of his will, 'that my dearest Gaspara Chastræa
would have outlived me.'
Admonished by her loss to set his affairs in order he began to take
special pains in providing for the future of his books. He anticipated
the public spirit of Cardinal Richelieu, to whom the merit is
often assigned of having been the first to bequeath the use of his library
to scholars. The Cardinal was not particular about the methods by which
he amassed his literary wealth: he is said to have increased his
store by all the arts of cajolery, and even by bare intimidation;
and he may have wished to make some amends by directing that 'persons
of erudition' should have access to his books after his death.

De Thou had an equal love of books, and showed perhaps a kinder feeling
about the use of the treasures which his own care had accumulated.
'It is important,' he wrote, 'for my own family and for the cause of
learning that the library should be kept together which I have been
for more than forty years collecting, and I hereby forbid any division,
sale, or dispersion thereof; I bequeath it to such of my sons as shall
apply themselves to literature, and they shall hold it in common,
but so that it shall be free to all scholars at home or abroad. I leave
its custody to Pierre du Puy until my sons are grown up, and he
shall have authority to lend out the MSS. under proper security for
their safe return.'

Pierre and Jacques du Puy, the 'two Puteani' as they were often called,
were the sons of a distinguished bibliophile, Charles du Puy, who died
in 1594, and were themselves the leaders in a curious department
of book-learning.

Their father was the founder of a library enriched by his care with
the best specimens of early printing and a few rare MSS.

In the latter class he possessed an ancient bilingual copy of St.

Paul's Epistles, a Livy in uncial characters, and the precious
fragments of the Vatican Virgil, which he gave to Fulvio Orsini in
his lifetime.

'On his death,' says M.

Guigard, 'the bibliographical succession passed to Pierre and Jacques,
his younger sons, the first a Councillor of State, the other Prior
of St.

Sauveur-les-Bray, and both employed as guardians of the books in
the Royal Library.

No two men were ever more ardently devoted to the interests of learning.
They worked in concert at increasing and improving their father's
library; but their chief object was to accumulate and preserve the
obscurer materials of history.

The _Collection Du Puy_, which has now became national property,
comprised more than 800 volumes of fugitive pieces, memoirs,
instructions, pedigrees, letters, and all the other miscellaneous
documents that were classed by D'Israeli 'under the vague title
of State Papers.'

It has been said that the object of their 'Titanic labour' was
to ease the way for the historian De Thou; but it is more likely
that the brothers obeyed an instinct for the acquisition of secret
history; 'life would have been too short to have decided on the
intrinsic value of the manuscripts flowing down in a stream to the
collectors.'

The surviving brother bequeathed these State Papers to the Abbé de Thou
(the fourth possessor of the 'Bibliotheca Thuana') who sold them
to Charron de Ménars; they were eventually purchased by Louis XVI.,
and were deposited in the Royal Library, where the printed books
and certain other MSS. had been already received under a legacy
from Jacques du Puy.

When the historian died the brothers jointly undertook the trust
that had fallen to Pierre.

'Among all the French scholars,' said Gassendi,'these two Puteani
do most excel; and now, abiding with the sons of Thuanus, they
sustain by all the means in their power the library and the students
that have been committed to their care.

François-Auguste de Thou, the historian's eldest son, became
Grand-Master of the King's books; he added considerably to the
'Bibliotheca Thuana,' and his house became the meeting-place of the
Parisian _savants_.

A brilliant career was cruelly cut short by the malignity of Richelieu.

The young Cinq-Mars was in a plot with the Queen and Gaston of Orléans
to overthrow the Cardinal's power.

His friend De Thou was aware of the design, but had taken no part in the
conspiracy. The Cardinal arrested them both, and dragged them along
the Rhone in a boat attached to his own barge; and De Thou was
executed as a scapegoat, while most of the leaders saved their lives.

The Cardinal died soon afterwards, without having confiscated the
library; and it passed to Jacques-Auguste, the historian's younger
son, who by a tardy act of grace had been restored to the civil
rights enjoyed by his brother before his unjust conviction.

He was by all accounts as great a book-collector as his father; and he
had the good fortune to marry an heiress, Marie Picardet, who
brought with her a large quantity of books from her father's house
in Britanny.

In the year 1677 the 'Bibliotheca Thuana' with all its additions
passed to the Abbé Jacques-Auguste de Thou, who was soon afterwards
compelled to part with it to the Président Charron de Ménars.

St. Simon praised its new owner as a most worthy and honourable
nonentity; but he had the sense to step into the breach and to save
the 'Thuana' from destruction. When he sold the library to the Cardinal
de Rohan, in 1706, he reserved the _Collection Du Puy_ for his daughters.
It is believed that the Cardinal, through the cleverness of his secretary
Oliva, obtained the historian's choice examples for less than the
price of the binding.

We must follow the career of the collection to its melancholy
end. The Cardinal left it to his nephew the Prince de Soubise. The
world knows him as the inventor of a sauce and as the general in
one lost battle; but he had a higher fame among the booksellers for
his prowess in the auction-room.

He seems to have been the victim of a frenzy for books.

He impressed them by crowds, and marshalled them in regiments
and myriads.

They all fell in 1789 before the hammer of the auctioneer. Dibdin has
described the catalogue.

It was unostentatious and printed on indifferent material.

He hoped, with his curious insistance on the point, that there were
'some few copies on large paper.'

It is a mark of the changes in book-collecting that Dibdin praised
the index as excellent, 'enabling us to discover any work of which
we may be in want'; but it is now regarded as remarkable for its
poverty, and especially for the extraordinary carelessness that
left eight noble specimens from Grolier's library without the
slightest mark of distinction.

Gian-Vincenzio Pinelli was a celebrated man of letters whose library
at Padua formed 'a perpetual Academy' for all the scholars of his
day.

Born at Naples in 1538, he spent the greater part of his long life
at Padua, where he was sent to study the law; but the only sign of
his professional labours appears to have been that he rigidly
excluded all works on jurisprudence from his magnificent library.

His books, says Hallam, were collected by the labours of many years:
'the catalogues of the Frankfort fairs and those of the principal
booksellers in Italy were diligently perused, nor did any work of
value appear from the press on either side of the Alps which he did
not instantly add to his shelves.'

Remembering the traditions of the age of Poggio, when the rarest classics
might be found perishing in a garret or a cellar, Pinelli was
always in the habit of visiting the dealers in old parchment and
the brokers who carried off deeds and papers from sales, just as Dr.

Rawlinson collected and gave to the Bodleian a mass of unsorted
documents, including, as we have seen, even the logs of recent
voyages, and the pickings of "grocers' waste-paper."

In each case the industry of the collector was constantly rewarded by
the discovery of valuable literary materials, which would have been
lost under ordinary circumstances. The library of Pinelli was augmented
by that of his friend Paul Aicardo, the two _literati_ having entered
into an undertaking that the survivor should possess the whole
fruit of their labours.

On Pinelli's death, in 1601, his family determined to transfer his
books to Naples. The Venetian government interfered on the ground that,
though Pinelli had been allowed to copy the archives and registers
of the State, it had never been intended that the information should be
communicated to a foreign power.

Their magistrate seized a hundred bales of books, of which fourteen were
packed with MSS.

On examination it appeared that there were about three hundred
volumes of political commentaries, dealing with the affairs of all
the Italian States; and it was arranged, by way of compromise, that
these should remain at Padua in a repository under the charge of
an official guardian.

The rest of the library was despatched in three shiploads from Genoa.

One vessel was captured by pirates, and the cargo was thrown overboard,
only a few volumes being afterwards cast ashore.

The other ships arrived safely at Naples; but it appears that the
new proprietors had little taste for literature.

The whole remaining stock was found some years afterwards in a mouldy
garret, packed in ninety bales; and it was purchased at last for 3000
crowns by Cardinal Frederic Borromeo, who used it as the basis for the
Ambrosian Library which he was at that time establishing in Milan. Another
library was afterwards founded at Venice by members of the Pinelli family
engaged in the Levantine trade.

On the death of its last possessor, Maffeo Pinelli, in 1787, the
collection was sold to a firm of English booksellers.

It seems by Dibdin's account to have been in a poor condition,
though Dr.

Harwood declared that, 'there being no dust in Venice,' it had
reposed for some centuries in excellent preservation.

This immense body of books was re-sold in London two years afterwards at
prices which barely covered the expenses incurred, though a large
amount was obtained for a copy of the Polyglott Bible of Ximènes
in six folio volumes printed upon vellum.

The praises of the great Pinelli were spread abroad by Scaliger, De Thou,
and Casaubon; but his memory, perhaps, has been best preserved by
the ardent friendship of Peiresc.

He was visited at Padua by the young philosopher in whose mind he found a
reflection of his own; and it was generally agreed that the lamp of
learning had passed into safe hands when it was yielded by Pinelli
to the student from Provence.

Nicolas Fabry de Peiresc belonged to an ancient family established near
Aix. His father had been selected by Louis XII. to share the
education of the Princess Renée.

A man of learning himself, he spared no expense in the boy's
instruction, who became celebrated even in his childhood for the
strength of his precocious intellect.

The most eminent professors in Italy combined to exalt 'the ripe excellence
of his unripe years'; and when Pinelli died it was said that Peiresc
had taken the helm of knowledge and was guiding the ship as he
pleased.

He explored at leisure the riches of Florence and Rome, and afterwards
watched the rise of the 'Ambrosiana' at Milan.

A letter from Joseph Scaliger, who ruled literary Europe like a King,
from his chair at Leyden, sent Peiresc off to Verona, where he
hunted up evidence in support of the wild story that the Scaligers
were the representatives of the Ducal line of La Scala.

Julius Cæsar Scaliger, the father of the great philologist, had
amused the world by claiming to be the son of Benedetto and Berenice
della Scala, to have been a page of the Emperor Maximilian, and to
have fought in the Battle of Ravenna; and he pretended that he had
become a Cordelier, so as to rise to the Papal throne and expel the
Venetians from his dominions.

Peiresc was by no means a believer in this extraordinary romance; but
he did his best to collect the coins, epitaphs, and pedigrees, which
might please his learned correspondent.

Crossing the Alps, we are told, 'he viewed the Lake of Geneva and
made a tour through a multitude of books'; and returned to Aix with
a library and cabinet of gems, 'thinking to himself that he would
never see such plenty again.'

When he visited Paris in 1605, his first object, he said, was to
see the illustrious De Thou, to thank him for his kind letters, and
to enquire for messages from Scaliger.

'I cannot express,' he repeats, 'how joyfully he entertained me.' De Thou
took down his books for the visitor, and showed him the records under
lock and key that contained the secrets of his history, 'opening his
very heart, and brimful of a wonderful sincerity.'

Next day Casaubon came in from the _Bibliothèque du Roi_, and showed
much pleasure at being introduced to the traveller.

His letters of a later date show his high esteem for Peiresc.

'I am eagerly waiting to hear what Scaliger will say about the antiques,
but I foresee that you will have room to glean after his harvest.' On
another occasion he wrote:
'I do not know if you heard that the Duke of Urbino has sent me the
Polybius, but I am indeed most beholden to you for the kindness.'

Ten years afterwards Peiresc came to Paris again, wishing to explore
the Oriental treasures in the library of De Mesmes, and to visit the
huge collections in the houses of St. Victor and St. Germain.

Here he gained the friendship of Pierre Séguier and the elegant Nicolas
Rigault, and of Jérome Bignon, the first of a long dynasty of librarians.
In England he saw the Bodleian, and talked with Savile, and admired
Sir Robert Cotton as 'an honestly curious sort of man.' In Holland his
chief business was to visit Scaliger, and we are told that he was
careful not to ask about the treatise on squaring the circle, or
to hint any doubt as to the truth of the Verona romance.

Here at Leyden he read in the great library, soon to be endowed with
Scaliger's books, and saw the room of which Heinsius so nobly said:
'In the very bosom of Eternity among all these illustrious souls I
take my seat'; and at Louvain he could only lament the death of
Justus Lipsius, whom he regarded as 'the light and the loadstar of
wisdom.'

Gassendi has left us an account of the library collected by Peiresc.

Besides his acquisitions in the East, of which we have spoken
elsewhere, the books came in crowds from his agents in France and
Germany, and his scribes in the Vatican and Escorial.

'When any library was to be sold by public outcry, he took care to buy
the best books, especially if they were of some neat edition that he did
not already possess.'

He bound them in red morocco with his cypher or initials in gold.
Not a tremor escaped the listener. Parting the leaves with a hand as
steady as the ground itself, he waited for the light.

"I have no world but you--no thought but you. I want nothing but you ...
you ... you." A sob broke her voice.

"Go," the answer was almost inaudible in its tenseness. "Go--and forget.
I have nothing for you."

The lightning came. In a small open space on the other side of the hedge
it illuminated the wild tortured face of Christine Manderson. And
standing before her, gripping both her hands and holding her away from
him--John Tranter.

She struggled to bring herself closer to him.

"I thought you were dead," she gasped.

"I _am_ dead," he answered. "I am dead to you. Let me go."

The listener could almost hear the effort of her breathing.

"I waited for you," she panted. "I was broken. I had to seem happy--but
my heart was a tomb. You were all my life--all my hope. I know I wasn't
what I might have been. I was what people call an adventuress. But my
love for you was the one great, true thing of my life. Oh, why did you
leave me?"

"For your own sake," he said slowly. "I am no mate for such a woman as
you."

"My own sake?" she repeated. "My own sake--to take from me the only
thing I had--my only chance?--to throw my life into the shadows? My own
sake ... to have made me what I am?"

"I would have spared you this meeting," he returned, "if I had known.
But the name Christine Manderson was strange to me. I had never heard
it before."

"I changed my name," she said sadly. "I couldn't bear that any one
should use the name that you had used. I called myself Christine
Manderson, and went on the stage in New York. Oh, it was dreadful. All
those long years since you left me I have lived under a mask--as you
have seen me to-night. You thought I was smiling--but I didn't smile.
You thought I was laughing--but I didn't laugh. It was all ... only
disguised tears ... to hide myself."

"Go," his voice was torn. "For God's sake go ... Thea."

A second flash showed them again to the listener. Tranter was still
holding her away from him. In that vivid fraction of a second the agony
of her face was terrible.

"Thea!" she echoed pitifully. "Ah, yes--call me Thea! Poor Thea! Oh,
doesn't that name awaken ... something? Hasn't it still some charm? Once
you said it was the only name in all the world. Is it nothing to you
now?"

"Nothing," he answered.

In spite of his resistance she was forcing herself nearer to him. The
magic of her presence was binding him.

"Am I less beautiful?" she whispered. "Have I lost anything that used to
draw you? Is not my hair as golden? Are not my eyes as bright--my lips
as red? Am I not as soft to touch? Where could you find anything better
than me?"

"Keep back!" he muttered.

Her hands were about him. In the darkness he could feel the deadly
loveliness of her face almost touching his own. He was yielding, inch by
inch. The warmth of her breath ... the perfume of her body.... Her
closeness was intoxicating--maddening.

"Oh, let me come to you," she prayed. "I will follow you barefooted to
the end of the world. I will live for you--slave for you--die for you.
Only let me come. Let me leave all this--and come to you ...
to-morrow...."

A groan was wrung from him. He crushed her to him.

"Come then!" he cried desperately. "Come, if you will!..."

A vivid flash, which seemed to burst almost over their heads, showed
them locked in each other's arms, their lips pressed together.

Monsieur Dupont raised himself quickly. There was the sound of running
footsteps on the path behind him. Monsieur Dupont had just time to turn
the corner before the disordered figure of the theatrical manager loomed
up before him.

"The madman is in the garden! He ran this way."

"_Diable!_" said Monsieur Dupont.

"I found him sneaking towards the house. He bolted out here."

Unaccustomed to physical exertion, the manager laid a heavy hand on
Monsieur Dupont's shoulder, and mopped his forehead breathlessly.

"The scoundrel means mischief," he declared. "He must be found."

"Where is Mr. Copplestone?"

"I called him, but couldn't get an answer. He must be away at the other
end of the garden."

"No one has passed this way," Monsieur Dupont assured him. "For a
half-hour I have been wandering about these horrible paths."

"It's a devil of a garden," the manager admitted. "The fellow won't get
very far. Let's look about here."

Fortified with a fresh supply of breath, he released Monsieur Dupont's
shoulder, and made a brisk movement towards the direction from which the
Frenchman had come.

Monsieur Dupont blocked the way.

"No, no--it would be a waste of time. I have come from there."

"To the river, then," the manager cried, bearing him round. "He may be
trying to get across."

He was evidently familiar with the intricacies of the garden. In a few
minutes, after a dozen turnings, they reached the gleam of water.

"Keep your eyes open for the next flash," the manager directed.

He peered about. A moment later the lightning lit up the calm stretch of
the river and the broad lawns sloping down to it. Monsieur Dupont
detected no form or movement--but with a startling shout, the manager
bounded away from him across the lawns.

Monsieur Dupont blinked after him in astonishment.

He was alone again--in a new and even darker part of the endless
garden.


CHAPTER IV

DESTRUCTION


A deep-toned clock in the house struck twelve.

Rain began to fall. A few moments later the financier hurried across the
lawns with his collar turned up. The danseuse followed him. She seemed a
disappointed and indignant woman.

"It's almost an insult," she complained overtaking him.

"Noth a penny more," said the financier firmly.

They both turned quickly. Her hand gripped his arm convulsively. Wild
shouting arose in the darkness, and the sound of someone forcing a
headlong way through hedge and bush.

The Reverend Percival Delamere was rushing towards the house as if the
entire penalties of sin were at his heels.

"A corpse! A corpse by the river! Miss Manderson has been murdered!"

The danseuse uttered a terrified cry. The financier shook.

"Murderedth?" he gasped, shrinking back.

The clergyman was shattered by horror.

"By the river ... almost torn to pieces...."

The danseuse screamed loudly. A figure bounded up behind them, and a
hand seized the clergyman's throat in a savage grip. The furious,
distorted face of George Copplestone glared down at him. He struggled,
freeing himself with all his strength.

"Copplestone," he choked, "something dreadful has happened to Miss
Manderson. I found her by the river ... horribly torn...."

From another direction, Tranter reached them, breathless.

"What is the matter? What has happened?"

The financier clung to him.

"Mith Manderthon ... murderedth."

Tranter shook him off, and stood very still. The agony on his face
passed unnoticed. As the theatrical manager and Mrs. Astley-Rolfe
arrived at a run, Copplestone, with a sound like the cry of a raging
animal, grasped the unhappy clergyman by the arm, and dashed off towards
the river.

The others followed. They found her lying a few yards from the water's
edge. The manager struck a match, and they looked down.

The danseuse shrieked, and fainted. Mrs. Astley-Rolfe sank on her knees,
sobbing, and covered her face with her hands. The financier sickened,
and turned away, trembling violently.

"God!" Tranter cried--"some one must have stamped on her!"

He bent down. "Thea...." he whispered.

Something like a sob shook him. But the others did not see.

"It must have been a wild beast," shuddered the clergyman.

"It is the work of a madman," said the manager hoarsely. "He has utterly
destroyed her--as he threatened."

George Copplestone stood without a tremor. As he looked down at the
broken form all his frenzy disappeared. The distortion of his first fury
faded from his face, leaving it set in a pallid, lifeless mask. He
contemplated the dreadful destruction at his feet without a sign of
horror, or even of pity. He was perfectly steady. Not a quiver escaped
him. Stooping down, he asked quietly for assistance to carry the body to
the house.

"Wait a bit," said the manager, looking at him curiously. "She ought not
to be moved before the police come."

Copplestone straightened himself, and remained silent.

"Let Gluckstein take the women in, and telephone to the Police Station,"
the manager suggested.

Mrs. Astley-Rolfe raised her bloodless face.

"Yes, yes," she sobbed. "Let me go. It's too horrible. I can't bear it."

Tranter raised her up. The danseuse had recovered consciousness, and was
crying hysterically. Suddenly the financier startled them in a thin high
voice, pointing a shaking finger into the darkness.

"Someone ith moving! Out there behind uth! Whoth there? Whoth there?"

They swung round, straining their eyes into the blackness.

"Who's there?" the manager called.

An answering voice reached them. The manager struck another match. On
the edge of the darkness they saw an enormous figure.

"It's Monsieur Dupont!" Tranter cried.

"My friends," exclaimed Monsieur Dupont, "at last I find you! What is
the matter?"

Copplestone looked at him steadily.

"The matter," he said evenly, "is that Miss Manderson has been
murdered."

Monsieur Dupont uttered an extraordinary exclamation. He was instantly
galvanized into a condition of seething energy. With what was almost a
snarl, he brushed the financier aside, and reached the white mangled
form on the ground.

For a tense minute he knelt beside it. The others waited.

"Destroyed," they heard him mutter--"utterly destroyed...."

When he rose, his eyes were full of tears.

"It is terrible. Who was with her last?"

"I was with her less than a quarter of an hour ago," Tranter replied.
"She said she was going back to the house, and asked me to find Mr.
Copplestone, and tell him that she was not feeling well."

"Where are your police?" asked Monsieur Dupont.

"Gluckstein is going to take the ladies back to the house, and telephone
for them," the manager returned.

The financier departed with his charges. The four men remained, facing
each other over the dead body. Rain was falling heavily.

"Poor girl," said the clergyman huskily.

"That such a brute should be at large," the manager added.

Copplestone's gaze again became rivetted to the ground. He seemed
unconscious of their presence. He was like a man alone and dazed in a
strange world.

Then the storm burst over them with all its fury. The rain poured down
in torrents, the lightning was incessant. It was as if the elements
themselves, in their rage, were seeking to complete the work of
destruction.

"We can't leave her out in this--police or no police," the clergyman
shivered.

Copplestone bent down again. The manager moved to assist, but Tranter
put him aside, and assisted Copplestone to lift the ghastly burden in
his arms. Then they picked their way slowly along the winding paths to
the house.

When they entered the decorated room, Copplestone's strange immobility
flashed upon him with startling suddenness. Uttering a oath, he placed
what he had previously been carrying with dull indifference roughly on a
couch, and hurled himself furiously upon the confusion of decorations,
tearing and crushing everything into a smashed heap on the floor. So
overwhelming was his violence that no one dared attempt to stop him. He
dashed the lights to the ground, and rent the flags with appalling
ferocity. In a few moments a shattered pile was all that remained of the
medley of illumination. He stood on the pile and ground his heels into
it.

Then all the energy was snuffed out of him like the switching off of an
electric current. The dull heavy cloud descended on him again. He stared
vacantly at the others, shrugged his shoulders slightly, and turned his
back on them.

The silence remained unbroken until a loud ringing at the front door
bell announced the arrival of the police.


I jumped at the conclusion instantly that in order to save our
lives, we had better at once own the truth.

In a very few words I told them who we were, where we were from,
how long we had been on the road, etc.

At this they withdrew a short distance from us for consultation,
leaving us for the time in terrible suspense as to what our fate might
be. Soon, how ever, they returned and informed us that they would be
compelled to take us to the County Jail, to await further orders
from the Military Commander of the District. While they were talking
together, I took a hasty inventory of what valuables we had on hand.
I found in the crowd four silver watches, about three hundred dollars
in Confederate money, and possibly, about one hundred dollars in greenbacks.
Before their return, I told the boys to be sure not to refuse any
request I should make.

Said I:

"'Gentlemen, we have here four silver watches and several hundred
dollars in Confederate money and greenbacks, all of which we now
offer you, if you will but allow us to proceed on our journey, we
taking our own chances in the future.'"

This proposition, to my great surprise, was refused. I thought then that
possibly I had been a little indiscreet in exposing our valuables, but
in this I was mistaken, for we had, indeed, fallen into the hands of
gentlemen, whose zeal for the Lost Cause was greater than that for
obtaining worldly wealth, and who not only refused the bribe, but took
us to a well-furnished and well-supplied farm house close by, gave
us an excellent breakfast, allowing us to sit at the table in a
beautiful dining-room, with a lady at the head, filled our haversacks
with good, wholesome food, and allowed us to keep our property,
with an admonition to be careful how we showed it again.

We were then put into a wagon and taken to Hamilton, a small town, the
county seat of Hamilton County, Georgia, and placed in jail, where we
remained for two days and nights --fearing, always, that the jail
would be burned over our heads, as we heard frequent threats of
that nature, by the mob on the streets.

But the same kind Providence that had heretofore watched over us,
seemed not to have deserted us in this trouble.

One of the days we were confined at this place was Sunday, and some
kind-hearted lady or ladies (I only wish I knew their names, as well
as those of the gentlemen who had us first in charge, so that I
could chronicle them with honor here) taking compassion upon our
forlorn condition, sent us a splendid dinner on a very large china
platter.

Whether it was done intentionally or not, we never learned, but
it was a fact, however, that there was not a knife, fork or spoon upon
the dish, and no table to set it upon. It was placed on the floor,
around which we soon gathered, and, with grateful hearts, we "got
away" with it all, in an incredibly short space of time, while many
men and boys looked on, enjoying our ludicrous attitudes and
manners.

From here we were taken to Columbus, Ga., and again placed in jail, and
in the charge of Confederate soldiers.

We could easily see that we were gradually getting into hot water
again, and that, ere many days, we would have to resume our old
habits in prison.

Our only hope now was that we would not be returned to Andersonville,
knowing well that if we got back into the clutches of Wirz our chances
for life would be slim indeed.

From Columbus we were sent by rail to Macon, where we were placed in a
prison somewhat similar to Andersonville, but of nothing like its
pretensions to security.

I soon learned that it was only used as a kind of reception place
for the prisoners who were captured in small squads, and when they numbered
two or three hundred, they would be shipped to Andersonville, or some
other place of greater dimensions and strength.

What became of the other boys who were with me, after we got to
Macon, I do not know, for I lost sight of them there.

The very next day after our arrival, there were shipped to Andersonville
from this prison between two and three hundred men.

I was called on to go with the crowd, but having had a sufficient
experience of the hospitality of that hotel, I concluded to play
"old soldier," so I became too sick to travel.

In this way I escaped being sent off four different times.

Meanwhile, quite a large number of commissioned officers had been
sent up from Charleston to be exchanged at Rough and Ready.

With them were about forty more than the cartel called for, and
they were left at Macon for ten days or two weeks.

Among these officers were several of my acquaintance, one being Lieut.
Huntly of our regiment (I am not quite sure that I am right in the
name of this officer, but I think I am), through whose influence I
was allowed to go outside with them on parole.

It was while enjoying this parole that I got more familiarly acquainted
with Captain Hurtell, or Hurtrell, who was in command of the prison
at Macon, and to his honor, I here assert, that he was the only
gentleman and the only officer that had the least humane feeling
in his breast, who ever had charge of me while a prisoner of war
after we were taken out of the hands of our original captors at
Jonesville, Va.

It now became very evident that the Rebels were moving the prisoners
from Andersonville and elsewhere, so as to place them beyond the
reach of Sherman and Stoneman.

At my present place of confinement the fear of our recapture had also
taken possession of the Rebel authorities, so the prisoners were
sent off in much smaller squads than formerly, frequently not more
than ten or fifteen in a gang, whereas, before, they never thought
of dispatching less than two or three hundred together.

I acknowledge that I began to get very uneasy, fearful that the "old
soldier" dodge would not be much longer successful, and I would
be forced back to my old haunts.

It so happened, however, that I managed to make it serve me, by
getting detailed in the prison hospital as nurse, so that I was
enabled to play another "dodge" upon the Rebel officers.

At first, when the Sergeant would come around to find out who were
able to walk, with assistance, to the depot, I was shaking with a
chill, which, according to my representation, had not abated in the
least for several hours.

My teeth were actually chattering at the time, for I had learned
how to make them do so.

I was passed.

The next day the orders for removal were more stringent than had yet been
issued, stating that all who could stand it to be removed on stretchers
must go. I concluded at once that I was gone, so as soon as I learned
how matters were, I got out from under my dirty blanket, stood up
and found I was able to walk, to my great astonishment, of course.

An officer came early in the morning to muster us into ranks preparatory
for removal. I fell in with the rest.

We were marched out and around to the gate of the prison.

Now, it so happened that just as we neared the gate of the prison,
the prisoners were being marched from the Stockade. The officer in charge
of us--we numbering possibly about ten--undertook to place us at the
head of the column coming out, but the guard in charge of that squad
refused to let him do so.

We were then ordered to stand at one side with no guard over us but
the officer who had brought us from the Hospital.

Taking this in at a glance, I concluded that now was my chance to
make my second attempt to escape.

I stepped behind the gate office (a small frame building with only
one room), which was not more than six feet from me, and as luck
(or Providence) would have it, the negro man whose duty it was, as
I knew, to wait on and take care of this office, and who had taken
quite a liking for me, was standing at the back door.

I winked at him and threw him my blanket and the cup, at the same
time telling him in a whisper to hide them away for me until he
heard from me again.

With a grin and a nod, he accepted the trust, and I started down along
the walls of the Stockade alone. In order to make this more plain, and
to show what a risk I was running at the time, I will state that
between the Stockade and a brick wall, fully as high as the Stockade
fence that was parallel with it, throughout its entire length on
that side, there was a space of not more than thirty feet.

On the outside of this Stockade was a platform, built for the guards
to walk on, sufficiently clear the top to allow them to look inside
with ease, and on this side, on the platform, were three guards.

I had traveled about fifty feet only, from the gate office, when I
heard the command to "Halt!"

I did so, of course.

"Where are you going, you d---d Yank?"

said the guard.

"Going after my clothes, that are over there in the wash," pointing
to a small cabin just beyond the Stockade, where I happened to
know that the officers had their washing done.

"Oh, yes," said he; "you are one of the Yank's that's been on,
parole, are you?"

"Yes."
"Well, hurry up, or you will get left."

The other guards heard this conversation and thinking it all right
I was allowed to pass without further trouble.

I went to the cabin in question--for I saw the last guard on the
line watching me, and boldly entered.

I made a clear statement to the woman in charge of it about how I had
made my escape, and asked her to secrete me in the house until
night.

I was soon convinced, however, from what she told me, as well as
from my own knowledge of how things were managed in the Confederacy,
that it would not be right for me to stay there, for if the house
was searched and I found in it, it would be the worse for her.

Therefore, not wishing to entail misery upon another, I begged her
to give me something to eat, and going to the swamp near by, succeeded
in getting well without detection.

I lay there all day, and during the time had a very severe chill
and afterwards a burning fever, so that when night came, knowing I
could not travel, I resolved to return to the cabin and spend the
night, and give myself up the next morning.

There was no trouble in returning.

I learned that my fears of the morning had not been groundless, for the
guards had actually searched the house for me.

The woman told them that I had got my clothes and left the house shortly
after my entrance (which was the truth except the part about the
clothes), I thanked her very kindly and begged to be allowed to
stay in the cabin till morning, when I would present myself at
Captain H.'

s office and suffer the consequences.

This she allowed me to do.

I shall ever feel grateful to this woman for her protection. She was
white and her given name was "Sallie," but the other I have
forgotten.

About daylight I strolled over near the office and looked around there
until I saw the Captain take his seat at his desk. I stepped into the
door as soon as I saw that he was not occupied and saluted him "a la
militaire."

"Who are you?" he asked; "you look like a Yank."
"Yes, sir," said I, "I am called by that name since I was captured
in the Federal Army."

"Well, what are you doing here, and what is your name?"
I told him.

"Why didn't you answer to your name when it was called at the gate
yesterday, sir?"

"I never heard anyone call my name."

Where were you?"
"I ran away down into the swamp."

"Were you re-captured and brought back?"
"No, sir, I came back of my own accord."

"What do you mean by this evasion?"

"I am not trying to evade, sir, or I might not have been here now. The
truth is, Captain, I have been in many prisons since my capture, and
have been treated very badly in all of them, until I came here."

"I then explained to him freely my escape from Andersonville, and
my subsequent re-capture, how it was that I had played 'old soldier'
etc."

"Now," said I, "Captain, as long as I am a prisoner of war, I wish to stay
with you, or under your command.

This is my reason for running away yesterday, when I felt confident
that if I did not do so I would be returned under Wirz's command,
and, if I had been so returned, I would have killed myself rather
than submit to the untold tortures which he would have put me to,
for having the audacity to attempt an escape from him."

The Captain's attention was here called to some other matters in
hand, and I was sent back into the Stockade with a command very
pleasantly given, that I should stay there until ordered out, which
I very gratefully promised to do, and did.

This was the last chance I ever had to talk to Captain Hurtrell,
to my great sorrow, for I had really formed a liking for the man,
notwithstanding the fact that he was a Rebel, and a commander of
prisoners.

The next day we all had to leave Macon.

Whether we were able or not, the order was imperative.

Great was my joy when I learned that we were on the way to Savannah
and not to Andersonville.

We traveled over the same road, so well described in one of your articles
on Andersonville, and arrived in Savannah sometime in the afternoon of
the 21st day of November, 1864. Our squad was placed in some barracks
and confined there until the next day.

I was sick at the time, so sick in fact, that I could hardly hold my head
up.

Soon after, we were taken to the Florida depot, as they told us, to be
shipped to some prison in those dismal swamps.

I came near fainting when this was told to us, for I was confident that
I could not survive another siege of prison life, if it was anything
to compare to-what I had already suffered.

When we arrived at the depot, it was raining. The officer in charge of
us wanted to know what train to put us on, for there were two, if not
three, trains waiting orders to start.

He was told to march us on to a certain flat car, near by, but
before giving the order he demanded a receipt for us, which the
train officer refused.

We were accordingly taken back to our quarters, which proved to be a most
fortunate circumstance.

On the 23d day of November, to our great relief, we were called
upon to sign a parole preparatory to being sent down the river on
the flat-boat to our exchange ships, then lying in the harbor.

When I say we, I mean those of us that had recently come from Macon, and
a few others, who had also been fortunate in reaching Savannah in small
squads.

The other poor fellows, who had already been loaded on the trains, were
taken away to Florida, and many of them never lived to return.

On the 24th those of us who had been paroled were taken on board
our ships, and were once more safely housed under that great,
glorious and beautiful Star Spangled Banner.

Long may she wave.

CHAPTER LXIII.

DREARY WEATHER--THE COLD RAINS DISTRESS ALL AND KILL HUNDREDS--EXCHANGE
OF TEN THOUSAND SICK--CAPTAIN BOWES TURNS A PRETTY, BUT NOT VERY
HONEST, PENNY.

As November wore away long-continued, chill, searching rains desolated
our days and nights. The great, cold drops pelted down slowly,
dismally, and incessantly.

Each seemed to beat through our emaciated frames against the very
marrow of our bones, and to be battering its way remorselessly
into the citadel of life, like the cruel drops that fell from the
basin of the inquisitors upon the firmly-fastened head of their
victim, until his reason fled, and the death-agony cramped his heart
to stillness.

The lagging, leaden hours were inexpressibly dreary. Compared with many
others, we were quite comfortable, as our hut protected us from the
actual beating of the rain upon our bodies; but we were much more
miserable than under the sweltering heat of Andersonville, as we
lay almost naked upon our bed of pine leaves, shivering in the raw,
rasping air, and looked out over acres of wretches lying dumbly on
the sodden sand, receiving the benumbing drench of the sullen skies
without a groan or a motion.

It was enough to kill healthy, vigorous men, active and resolute,
with bodies well-nourished and well clothed, and with minds vivacious
and hopeful, to stand these day-and-night-long solid drenchings.

No one can imagine how fatal it was to boys whose vitality was sapped
by long months in Andersonville, by coarse, meager, changeless
food, by groveling on the bare earth, and by hopelessness as to any
improvement of condition.

Fever, rheumatism, throat and lung diseases and despair now came to
complete the work begun by scurvy, dysentery and gangrene, in
Andersonville.

Hundreds, weary of the long struggle, and of hoping against hope,
laid themselves down and yielded to their fate.

In the six weeks that we were at Millen, one man in every ten died.

The ghostly pines there sigh over the unnoted graves of seven hundred
boys, for whom life's morning closed in the gloomiest shadows.

As many as would form a splendid regiment--as many as constitute the
first born of a populous City--more than three times as many as
were slain outright on our side in the bloody battle of Franklin,
succumbed to this new hardship.

The country for which they died does not even have a record of their
names.

They were simply blotted out of existence; they became as though they
had never been.

About the middle of the month the Rebels yielded to the importunities of
our Government so far as to agree to exchange ten thousand sick.

The Rebel Surgeons took praiseworthy care that our Government should
profit as little as possible by this, by sending every hopeless
case, every man whose lease of life was not likely to extend much
beyond his reaching the parole boat.

If he once reached our receiving officers it was all that was
necessary; he counted to them as much as if he had been a Goliath.

A very large portion of those sent through died on the way to our
lines, or within a few hours after their transports at being once
more under the old Stars and Stripes had moderated.

The sending of the sick through gave our commandant--Captain Bowes--a
fine opportunity to fill his pockets, by conniving at the passage
of well men.

There was still considerable money in the hands of a few prisoners.

All this, and more, too, were they willing to give for their lives.

In the first batch that went away were two of the leading sutlers
at Andersonville, who had accumulated perhaps one thousand dollars
each by their shrewd and successful bartering.

It was generally believed that they gave every cent to Bowes for
the privilege of leaving.

I know nothing of the truth of this, but I am reasonably certain that
they paid him very handsomely.

Soon we heard that one hundred and fifty dollars each had been
sufficient to buy some men out; then one hundred, seventy-five,
fifty, thirty, twenty, ten, and at last five dollars.

Whether the upright Bowes drew the line at the latter figure, and
refused to sell his honor for less than the ruling rates of a
street-walker's virtue, I know not.

It was the lowest quotation that came to my knowledge, but he may
have gone cheaper.

I have always observed that when men or women begin to traffic in
themselves, their price falls as rapidly as that of a piece of
tainted meat in hot weather.

If one could buy them at the rate they wind up with, and sell them at
their first price, there would be room for an enormous profit.

The cheapest I ever knew a Rebel officer to be bought was some weeks
after this at Florence.

The sick exchange was still going on.

I have before spoken of the Rebel passion for bright gilt buttons.
It used to be a proverbial comment upon the small treasons that were
of daily occurrence on both sides, that you could buy the soul of
a mean man in our crowd for a pint of corn meal, and the soul of a
Rebel guard for a half dozen brass buttons.

A boy of the Fifth-fourth Ohio, whose home was at or near Lima, O.,
wore a blue vest, with the gilt, bright-trimmed buttons of a staff
officer.

The Rebel Surgeon who was examining the sick for exchange saw the
buttons and admired them very much.

The boy stepped back, borrowed a knife from a comrade, cut the
buttons off, and handed them to the Doctor.

"All right, sir," said he as his itching palm closed over the coveted
ornaments; "you can pass," and pass he did to home and friends.

Captain Bowes's merchandizing in the matter of exchange was as open
as the issuing of rations. His agent in conducting the bargaining was a
Raider--a New York gambler and stool-pigeon--whom we called "Mattie."
He dealt quite fairly, for several times when the exchange was interrupted,
Bowes sent the money back to those who had paid him, and received it
again when the exchange was renewed.

Had it been possible to buy our way out for five cents each Andrews
and I would have had to stay back, since we had not had that much
money for months, and all our friends were in an equally bad plight.

Like almost everybody else we had spent the few dollars we happened
to have on entering prison, in a week or so, and since then we had
been entirely penniless.

There was no hope left for us but to try to pass the Surgeons as
desperately sick, and we expended our energies in simulating this
condition.

Rheumatism was our forte, and I flatter myself we got up two cases
that were apparently bad enough to serve as illustrations for a
patent medicine advertisement.

But it would not do.

Bad as we made our condition appear, there were so many more who
were infinitely worse, that we stood no show in the competitive
examination.

I doubt if we would have been given an average of "50" in a report. We
had to stand back, and see about one quarter of our number march
out and away home.

We could not complain at this--much as we wanted to go ourselves, since
there could be no question that these poor fellows deserved the
precedence.

We did grumble savagely, however, at Captain Bowes's venality, in
selling out chances to moneyed men, since these were invariably
those who were best prepared to withstand the hardships of imprisonment,
as they were mostly new men, and all had good clothes and blankets.

We did not blame the men, however, since it was not in human nature
to resist an opportunity to get away--at any cost-from that accursed
place.

"All that a man hath he will give for his life," and I think that
if I had owned the City of New York in fee simple, I would have
given it away willingly, rather than stand in prison another month.

When Tranter returned to the waiting-room, he found Monsieur Dupont
asleep in an armchair. The room was very quiet. The danseuse had
subsided into an interim condition of mute tension. Mrs. Astley-Rolfe
was deathly white, but perfectly composed. The men made occasional
remarks to each other.

"Mrs. Astley-Rolfe," the inspector called.


CHAPTER VIII

MRS. ASTLEY-ROLFE


"Madam," said the inspector, placing a chair for her, "I need only
trouble you with one or two questions. You will understand that it is
necessary for me to account for each member of this party, so that I may
know which of them can, or cannot, assist me in my investigations."

She sat down with a weary movement. Her hands trembled slightly.

"It is very dreadful," she shuddered. "Such a frightful crime is
inconceivable. Who could have hated the poor girl so dreadfully?"

"That remains to be discovered," the inspector returned quietly. "I have
no doubt we shall succeed in clearing it up."

"I hope you will," she said fervently. "Please ask me any questions you
like."

The inspector kept his eyes fixed on his note-book.

"You went into the garden with the others after dinner?"

"Yes."

"Will you please tell me with whom, and in what part of the garden, you
passed the time before the crime was discovered?"

"I was alone," she said slowly.

"The whole time?"

"Yes. I was not feeling very well, and did not want the trouble of
talking. I walked away by myself."

"You know the way about the garden quite well?"

"Quite."

"In what direction did you walk?"

"To the croquet lawn."

"Did you see anything of the others?"

"No."

"Or hear any voices?"

"No."

"Nothing until the alarm was given?"

"Nothing. It was an isolated part of the garden. When I heard Mr.
Delamere shouting, I ran back to the house, and found them on the
lawn."

The inspector shot a keen glance at her.

"Did you know Miss Manderson well?"

"I had only met her three or four times."

"I suppose--being one of the most beautiful women on the American stage,
and about to appear for the first time in London--you heard her a good
deal talked about?"

"Yes." Her voice was just perceptibly harder. "People were taking great
interest in her."

"Did you hear her private affairs, and mode of life, discussed at any
time?"

"No."

"Or the name of James Layton, the millionaire philanthropist, mentioned
in conjunction with her's?"

"Never."

"Thank you, madam. I need not trouble you any further. Will you kindly
leave me your address, in case I should have to ask you for any more
information?"

He wrote the address down, and bowed her out.


CHAPTER IX

THE DANSEUSE


"Madame Krashoff," summoned the inspector.

The danseuse was in a condition of the utmost distress.

"_Mon Dieu! Mon Dieu!_" she wept.

"Please calm yourself, madame," the inspector requested patiently.

"I ken nothin' o' the creeme!" she sobbed thoughtlessly.

"I am sure of that," he declared gravely. "I merely wish to establish
the movements of every one here. With whom did you pass the time after
you went out into the garden until the alarm was given?"

"Wi' M'soo Gluckstein," she whimpered.

"All the time?"

"N-no."

"How much of the time?"

She became more collected.

"He said to me something that made me angry," she replied, with a touch
of viciousness. "I walk away from him. Then it rain, and I overtook him
as I go back to the house."

"How long were you away from him?" the inspector asked.

"_Ma foi_, I cannot tell. Maybe ten minutes."

"Did you see any one else?"

"No."

"In what part of the garden were you when you left him?"

"Behind the tennis courts."

"That is some way from the river?"

"Yes, yes--ver' far away."

"Thank you, madame."


CHAPTER X

MR. GLUCKSTEIN


The financier was extremely agitated, and tried to shake hands with the
inspector.

"Mr. Gluckstein, I understand from Madame Krashoff that you were with
her in the garden for the greater part of the time before the crime was
discovered."

"I wath," the financier quivered--"indeed I wath, inthpector."

"Then she left you for about ten minutes?"

"Not tho much ath ten minutes," corrected the financier hastily.

"What did you do after she left you?"

"I stayed vere I vath--until the rain commenthed."

"Did you see any one else?"

"No one at allth."

"Thank you," said the inspector. "Please leave me your address, in case
I should want to ask you any further questions."

The financier produced a card with trembling fingers.


CHAPTER XI

THE CLERGYMAN


"Mr. Delamere," said the inspector, "you discovered the body?"

"I did," replied the clergyman, with a shiver.

"Were you alone when you found it?"

"Yes. I had been walking with Mr. Bolsover for about quarter of an hour.
Then he turned back to find some of the others, and I strolled on to the
river."

"Did you meet any one else?"

"No."

"You saw nothing of this young man, Layton, who was chased towards the
river by Mr. Bolsover?"

"Nothing whatever."

"No sounds of a struggle?"

"No. I heard nothing."

"Was the body lying in your path?"

"No. Some distance aside. I saw something white on the ground in one of
the lightning flashes, and went to see what it was."

"I shall have to ask you to return here at ten o'clock, to show me the
exact spot."

"Certainly."

"Thank you, Mr. Delamere."


CHAPTER XII

MR. BOLSOVER


"My God!" exclaimed the manager, "what an appalling business!"

"It is," the inspector agreed shortly.

"She was to have appeared at my theater, too," said the manager
ruefully.

"I understand that you found Layton sneaking about the house?"

"Yes. I first strolled out with Mr. Delamere. Then I left him, and went
back to see where the others had got to, and saw Layton creeping round
the side of the house towards the open drawing-room windows. He heard my
footsteps on the path, and bolted."

"To the river?"

"Yes. I shouted for Mr. Copplestone, but there was no answer--so I
followed him."

"You are quite certain it was Layton?"

"Perfectly. I saw his face in the light of the windows, and he was
wearing the peculiar kind of slouch hat he had carried when he came into
the room."

"Apparently no one saw him in the garden except yourself."

"Unfortunately not. I met the Frenchman, Monsieur Dupont, a little way
from the river--but he had not seen him."

"It was a pity you did not manage to catch him," the inspector remarked.

"Confound it, yes! But it was easy to get away in such a garden as this.
There wasn't a chance of finding him."

"What did you do, after meeting Monsieur Dupont?"

"We went on to the river together. I thought I saw a movement among the
trees when the lightning lit them up--but there was nothing. I walked
round about there for a few minutes, and then went back to warn
Copplestone."

"Leaving Monsieur Dupont by the river?"

"Yes. Before I reached the house, I heard Mr. Delamere shouting the
alarm."

"Thank you," said the inspector, closing his note-book. "I am afraid I
shall have to trouble you to come here at ten o'clock and show me
certain places in the garden."

"I am entirely at your disposal," said the manager.

He went out. The inspector sat down at the table, and remained perfectly
still for half an hour.


CHAPTER XIII

THE TRINITY OF DEATH


In Tranter's car, its owner and Monsieur Dupont started, at half-past
one, on their return from the crooked house.

The storm had passed, and the air was fresh and cool. It was possibly
the atmospheric clearance which accounted for the fact, that, however,
fatigued he had been, or appeared to be, at the end of his conversation
with the inspector, Monsieur Dupont was now particularly wide-awake and
alert.

"_Dieu!_" he cried, "what a terrible crime! Almost to tear that woman to
pieces--to crush her--to rend her! And what a woman! _Ma foi_, what a
woman!"

There was a pause. Monsieur Dupont accepted and lit a cigar from
Tranter's case.

"My friend," he said quietly, "I wish to be quite fair to you."

"Fair to me?" Tranter echoed, surprised.

"Something happened to-night which you doubtless believe to be unknown
to every one except yourself."

Tranter turned to him quickly.

"I have not the habit," Monsieur Dupont continued, "of listening to
private conversations between other people. It is only on very rare
occasions that I have done so. I did so to-night."

"What do you mean?" Tranter exclaimed.

"In that horrible garden, before the crime was committed," pursued
Monsieur Dupont evenly, "I lost my way. Such a garden must have been
especially designed to cause innocent people to lose their way. I
wandered about. How I wandered!"

"What did you overhear?" asked Tranter, in a strained voice.

"A conversation--between that unfortunate Mademoiselle Manderson, and
yourself."

"You heard it?" Tranter cried sharply.

"I heard it," admitted Monsieur Dupont. "I heard a great part of it. I
believe nearly all. I should not have done so. Understand, I make you
all my apologies. It was improper to listen. But the storm, the
surroundings, the scene itself, excited me. I listened."

Tranter remained silent.

"I continued to listen, until Mr. Bolsover found me. He was following
that young man, Layton. I went with him to the river."

Tranter was still silent--staring straight in front of him with fixed
eyes.

"You saw a picture of weakness," he said, at last. "I am not proud of
it. I should much prefer to be able to think that no one had seen it. I
gave Inspector Fay an account of the whole scene, and of my previous
acquaintance with Christine Manderson. He promised to keep it to
himself. I hope you will do the same."

"I shall indeed," the other assured him.

"I am only human," Tranter went on, with an effort--"more human than I
thought. I resisted her once by taking flight. I couldn't resist her
to-night."

He mastered his emotion.

"From the moment she first came into the room I was helpless. I knew
what would come of it--but I couldn't tear myself away. It was the
whole spell--with all the new strength of memories. I knew she intended
to find me alone in the garden." He paused. "I had to let her."

"Human nature," said Monsieur Dupont consolingly, "is human nature."

Silence followed. Monsieur Dupont thoughtfully puffed at his cigar.

"A crooked house in a crooked garden," he said, at length, "is a
combination from which all honest people should shrink. Those who
frequent it must be, for the most part, crooked people. They were, for
the most part, crooked people to-night."

"It was a crooked evening from beginning to end," Tranter said wearily.

"It was a wicked evening," Monsieur Dupont declared--"full of wicked
thoughts. A crime was the natural and logical end to such an evening. It
would have been surprising if there had not been one."

He smoked vigorously for some moments--then made an expansive gesture.

"Are there not," he demanded, "houses and gardens and thunder-storms
that awaken cruel and shameful impulses that would never be aroused in
other houses and other gardens and other storms? Does not the influence
of good and noble decorations uplift us to joy and patriotism? Why
should not the influence of mean and sinful decorations degrade us to
murder and destruction? The flags that fly over the innocent revels of
children are innocent flags, and inspire kind feelings and happiness.
But remove the same flags to a Bull-ring, and they become evil flags,
inspiring lust for the blood and slaughter of helpless creatures--the
basest of human instincts."

"You are fantastic," said Tranter, with a gloomy smile.

"In fantasy," returned Monsieur Dupont, "are the world's greatest
truths."

He carefully deposed the ash from his cigar.

"Will you please tell me," he went on, "something more about our strange
host to-night--the man who chooses so much crookedness to live in, when
there is straightness to be had for the same price?"

"I know very little more about him than I told you last night," Tranter
replied. "He is wealthy, and very eccentric. He seems to pass his life
in a perpetual effort to be different from other people."

"He is more than eccentric," Monsieur Dupont stated. "He is mad. In a
few years he will be a dangerous lunatic. And the Good God only knows
what he may make of himself in the meantime."

"There are plenty of strange stories about him," Tranter said. "But I
have always looked on them as greatly exaggerated."

"Probably," Monsieur Dupont remarked, "they were true."

"Whatever his reputation may be, women seem very ready to put up with
his eccentricities, or pander to them, in return, no doubt, for big
inroads into his banking account. He is very free with his money where
the opposite sex is concerned."

"It is always so," said Monsieur Dupont, "with such men."

"He mixes chiefly in theatrical and bohemian circles--and often by no
means the most desirable of those. The better people look askance on
him--but he is supremely indifferent to the opinions of others, and to
all the conventions. Whatever he takes it into his head to do he does,
quite regardless of the approval or disapproval of other people. He is
certainly not a man I would introduce to any woman who possessed even
the smallest degree of physical attraction. He is supposed to be quite
unscrupulous in the attainment of his objects."

"Most of us are," said Monsieur Dupont. "But we dislike to admit it."

He looked steadily out of the window for a moment.

"I wonder," he said, turning back, "what he does with the rest of that
house."

"The rest of the house?" Tranter repeated.

"It is very large," said Monsieur Dupont. "It is large enough for twenty
men."

"In this country," Tranter smiled, "there is no law against one man
living in a house large enough for twenty, if he chooses."

"When only a small part of a house is used for ordinary purposes,"
remarked Monsieur Dupont, "the remainder is often used for extraordinary
ones."

"You know as much of the house as I do," Tranter returned.

"As a practical man," Monsieur Dupont continued, "you may smile when I
speak of such a thing as 'psychic intuition.' But you may smile, and
again you may smile. I possess that intuition strongly. It has been of
great use to me. The moment I entered that house to-night, I knew it was
a house of sin. I knew there were hidden things in it--things that were
not for honest eyes to see. I do not say--at present--that they have any
connection with the crime. But they are there."

"I do not smile at such instincts," Tranter said. "I quite admit that
there is a strange, uncanny atmosphere about the place. And if there are
secrets in it, I am equally ready to admit that they are probably bad
ones."

"They are bad ones," declared Monsieur Dupont. "They could not be
anything but bad ones. When that excellent Inspector Fay has solved the
mystery of the garden, he would be wise to turn his attention to the
secrets of the house."

There was a pause.

"Did Layton kill her?" Tranter asked suddenly.

Monsieur Dupont shrugged his shoulders.

"The evidence is against him," he replied judicially. "Your Coroner's
jury will find him guilty, and the police will not look further. They
will build up a strong case. They will doubtless find that he was
cruelly treated by that poor girl, and was furious to know that she was
engaged to another man. He threatened, in the presence of many
witnesses, to kill her in a horrible way. He was seen later in the
garden, and afterwards she was found--killed in exactly that horrible
way. Who would not say that in his rage and jealousy he had fulfilled
his threat? Every one will be perfectly satisfied. It is enough for
justice if the most likely person is hanged. And, so far, he is not only
the most likely, but the only, person."

"Perhaps so," Tranter acknowledged. "But--he didn't look like a
murderer. He looked a good fellow. Is there no other alternative?"

"There _is_ an alternative," said Monsieur Dupont steadily.

"There is?"

"Yes."

Monsieur Dupont smoked composedly for a minute.

"My friend," he said--"are you inclined for an adventure?"

"I am rather busy," Tranter replied. "What is it?"

"Suppose ... I were to declare to you positively that James Layton is
innocent--that he did not commit that crime in the crooked garden
to-night--and that I do not intend to allow him to be hanged for a crime
that he did not commit--would you give a certain amount of your time to
help me to save him?"

"Certainly. I will do anything I can."

"Then," said Monsieur Dupont, "I answer the question you asked a moment
ago. He did _not_ kill her."

"Who did?" Tranter demanded, looking at him in astonishment.

"That is another matter. It is one thing to say who did not--but quite
another to say who did. That is for us to discover. There will be very
little time. I think I can promise you excitement. Possibly there will
be danger. You do not object to that?"

"I have faced a certain amount of danger in my time," Tranter replied.

"Good," said Monsieur Dupont. "Then we will set ourselves--quite apart
from the efforts of our friend, Inspector Fay--to solve the mystery of
the crooked garden. The whole matter impressed me queerly. The only
artillery I had ever seen in action were field pieces.

They made an earsplitting crash when they were discharged, and there
was likely to be oceans of trouble for everybody in that neighborhood
about that time.

I reasoned from this that bigger guns made a proportionally
greater amount of noise, and bred an infinitely larger quantity
of trouble.

Now I was hearing the giants of the world's ordnance, and they were not
so impressive as a lively battery of three-inch rifles.

Their reports did not threaten to shatter everything, but had a dull
resonance, something like that produced by striking an empty barrel
with a wooden maul. Their shells did not come at one in that
wildly, ferocious way, with which a missile from a six-pounder
convinces every fellow in a long line of battle that he is the identical
one it is meant for, but they meandered over in a lazy, leisurely
manner, as if time was no object and no person would feel put out at
having to wait for them.

Then, the idea of firing every quarter of an hour for a year--fixing up
a job for a lifetime, as Andrews expressed it,--and of being fired
back at for an hour at 9 o'clock every morning and evening; of fifty
thousand people going on buying and selling, eating, drinking and
sleeping, having dances, drives and balls, marrying and giving in
marriage, all within a few hundred yards of where the shells were
falling-struck me as a most singular method of conducting warfare.

We received no rations until the day after our arrival, and
then they were scanty, though fair in quality. We were by this time so
hungry and faint that we could hardly move. We did nothing for hours but
lie around on the ground and try to forget how famished we were. At the
announcement of rations, many acted as if crazy, and it was all
that the Sergeants could do to restrain the impatient mob from
tearing the food away and devouring it, when they were trying to
divide it out.

Very many--perhaps thirty--died during the night and morning. No blame
for this is attached to the Charlestonians.

They distinguished themselves from the citizens of every other place
in the Southern Confederacy where we had been, by making efforts
to relieve our condition.

They sent quite a quantity of food to us, and the Sisters of Charity
came among us, seeking and ministering to the sick. I believe our
experience was the usual one.

The prisoners who passed through Charleston before us all spoke very
highly of the kindness shown them by the citizens there.

We remained in Charleston but a few days.

One night we were marched down to a rickety depot, and put aboard
a still more rickety train.

When morning came we found ourselves running northward through a
pine barren country that resembled somewhat that in Georgia, except
that the pine was short-leaved, there was more oak and other hard
woods, and the vegetation generally assumed a more Northern look.

We had been put into close box cars, with guards at the doors and
on top.

During the night quite a number of the boys, who had fabricated
little saws out of case knives and fragments of hoop iron, cut holes
through the bottoms of the cars, through which they dropped to the
ground and escaped, but were mostly recaptured after several days.

There was no hole cut in our car, and so Andrews and I staid in.

Just at dusk we came to the insignificant village of Florence, the
junction of the road leading from Charleston to Cheraw with that
running from Wilmington to Kingsville.

To
reach an object it was necessary to walk away from it. To arrive at the
bank of the river, Copplestone conducted his followers in the opposite
direction.

"This garden might have been designed for a crime," the inspector
remarked, as they turned yet another corner.

"It was," Monsieur Dupont agreed from the rear. "It was designed for the
most abominable crime of making men and women go backwards instead of
forwards. And last night it attained the height of its purpose."

For an instant Copplestone glanced back at him, a quickening in his dull
eyes. A moment afterwards they turned a final corner, and emerged on to
the broad lawns, sloping down to the edge of the river.

Copplestone halted, and looked round, measuring distances. Then he moved
on, keeping close to the trees.

"About here, I think," said the clergyman, pausing.

Copplestone stopped a few paces ahead.

"It was very dark," he said, looking at the ground. "I don't think I
knew exactly where we were. As near as I can judge, it was just here."

"There ought to have been some sign left to mark the place when the body
was taken away," the inspector said sharply.

"You will find," said the quiet voice of Monsieur Dupont, "a pencil in
the ground at the exact spot. It is a useful pencil, and I should be
obliged if you would kindly return it to me."

The inspector shot him a rather grim smile. All, except Copplestone,
bent down to look for the sign.

"Here it is," Tranter exclaimed, pulling a pencil out of the ground.
They stood aside to give the inspector room.

"The rain has washed away any traces that might have helped us," that
official grumbled, after a fruitless search.

"And even if it had not," the manager observed, "you would only have
found traces of all of us, as we were all here."

The inspector continued his examination. Copplestone stood apart, his
eyes fixed on the river. He did not appear to be taking the slightest
interest in the proceedings.

"In what position was the body lying?" the inspector asked, looking up
at the clergyman.

"It was so horribly contorted that it is difficult to say in what
position it _was_ lying," the latter replied, bending down beside him.
"The head, I think, lay towards the river, and the feet towards the
trees."

"It was so when we came," Copplestone corroborated, without turning his
head.

"There are no signs of a struggle here," said the inspector,
straightening himself after another pause. "If there had been one, some
of the heavier indications might have remained in spite of the rain."

"It is possible," Monsieur Dupont suggested, "that the body was carried
here from the place where the struggle did take place."

"Quite possible," the inspector agreed. He turned to Tranter. "Will you
show us now, Mr. Tranter, where you parted from Miss Manderson?"

"I am not familiar with the garden," Tranter replied. "I only know, as I
told you last night, that we had just passed under some arches across
the path. I do not know where they are."

"Mr. Copplestone will show us," said the inspector.

Copplestone started at the sound of his own name, and turned to them.

"What next?" he asked abruptly.

"The rose arches," returned the inspector.

Copplestone indicated an opening in the trees, some distance ahead of
them.

"Over here," he directed, moving towards it.

There were twelve ornamental arches, overgrown with roses. Monsieur
Dupont looked at the wealth of flowers almost with reverence.

"So far," he muttered, "the only innocent things I have seen in this
garden."

Tranter stopped at a point where several paths intersected.

"I left her here," he said. "I went down that path to the right, which
she told me would lead to the main lawns where I should be most likely
to Mr. Copplestone. She said she was going straight back to the house."

"She should have taken that path," Copplestone said, turning to one in
another direction. "That is the way to the house."

"Did she know the garden well?" asked the inspector.

"Perfectly well."

"Still, she might easily have taken a wrong turning in the darkness."

"She might. But it is about the straightest path in the garden. I don't
think she would have made a mistake."

Slowly and carefully Inspector Fay followed the path to the house, under
the guidance of Copplestone. Every yard of the way was examined, but
yielded nothing. The inspector's face became darker and darker. He
stopped when they turned a corner and found themselves at the house.

"She could not possibly have got so far as this before the attack was
made," he said discontentedly.

"Impossible," agreed the manager. "If the murderer had killed her here,
he would have left her here. He would not have taken the risk of
dragging her all the way to the river."

"It seems a curious thing," the clergyman remarked, "that apparently she
did not utter any cry for help."

"Ah!" said Monsieur Dupont quietly.

He looked at the clergyman with a new interest. Copplestone also glanced
at him quickly.

"Even the thunder would hardly have drowned a sharp cry, and some one
would surely have heard it."

"Probably she hadn't time," suggested the manager. "No doubt he sprang
out and attacked her from the back. He must have been as quick as the
lightning itself."

Monsieur Dupont drew Tranter aside.

"Our clerical friend does not realize the importance of his own point,"
he said softly. "But he has put his finger on the key to the whole
mystery."

"The key?" Tranter repeated.

"If Christine Manderson had uttered a cry for help, this would have been
a simple, straightforward case," said Monsieur Dupont. "In the fact that
she did not lies the whole secret of the crime."

"Bolsover's reason would seem to be the obvious one," Tranter returned.
"The assault must have been made so quickly that she had no time."

"Mr. Bolsover's reason is, as you say, the obvious one," admitted
Monsieur Dupont. "But it is not the correct one. I have already warned
Inspector Fay to disregard the obvious. If he will not take my advice,
that is his affair."

"But what do you mean?" asked Tranter.

Monsieur Dupont's voice sank lower.

"Don't you see that a cry for help would have completely transformed the
whole case? It would have brought it down in one crash to a human
level. It is the silence--the utter, horrible silence--that makes it
what it is. It is the silence----"

The inspector's voice recalled them.

"Now, Mr. Bolsover, just whereabouts was Layton when you disturbed him?"

"He was sneaking round there," the manager replied, pointing to a corner
of the house, "towards the drawing-room windows."

"Which path did he run to when he saw you?"

"That one--to the river."

"Does that path communicate anywhere with the one which we presume Miss
Manderson was following to the house?"

"Yes," said Copplestone.

They moved along the path indicated by the manager. It twisted about
unproductively for some distance.

"How far was he in front of you?" asked the inspector.

"I don't know," confessed the manager. "I should say about ten yards
when we started--but I am not much of a runner. I had lost him
altogether before I got here."

They went on.

"That cursed rain," the inspector muttered.

"This is the branch that leads to the other path," said Copplestone,
halting.

"And it was further along there, by that fir tree that I met Monsieur
Dupont," added the manager.

"That is so," agreed Monsieur Dupont. "Layton certainly did not come
beyond this point in my direction."

"By taking that branch," the inspector calculated, "he would have met
Miss Manderson just at the time that the crime was committed."

"He would," said the manager.

Monsieur Dupont turned again to Tranter.

"We must be quick," he whispered, "Layton is already hanged."

"There doesn't seem to be much chance for him," returned Tranter. "It
will be a very strong case. No criminal could complain at being hanged
on such evidence."

"And yet," said Monsieur Dupont slowly, "so far as the actual crime is
concerned, there is not a single trace. Not one single trace. Is it not
extraordinary?"

He doubled his fists.

"That luck!" he ground out angrily. "Again that luck!"

"What luck?" Tranter exclaimed.

"If that most unfortunate young man had not come here and made a fool of
himself last night, the police might have searched forever without
finding a clue. There is no clue here. And there was the rain. The very
elements sweep up after the passing of the Destroyer."

"What on earth do you mean?" Tranter cried.

"Hush!" said Monsieur Dupont.

"I am obliged to you, gentlemen," said the inspector. "Your evidence
will of course be required at the inquest, of which you will receive
notice. I need not detain you any longer."

The clergyman and the manager hurried away. Monsieur Dupont lingered at
the inspector's side, and Tranter strolled back with Copplestone.

"Well?" queried the inspector. "Not much doubt about it, is there?"

"You have a strong case," said Monsieur Dupont. "Very strong."

"You agree with it?"

Monsieur Dupont shrugged his shoulders.

"At all events, I am not in position, at present, to contradict it."

"You will have your work cut out to build up another one," said the
inspector complacently. "There isn't a trace."

"That is it," said the other sharply. "There is no trace. There is never
a trace." He lowered his voice cautiously. "One point I recommend to
you, as I have just recommended it to Tranter--that remark of Mr.
Delamere that there was no cry for help."

"What of it?" "No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of
the Priesthood, only by persuasion, by long suffering, by gentleness,
and meekness, and by love unfeigned;
"By kindness, and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge the
soul without hypocrisy, and without guile;
"Reproving betimes with sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy
Ghost, and then showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward
him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy;

"That he may know that thy faithfulness is stronger than the cords
of death;
"Let thy bowels also be full of charity towards all men, and to the
household of faith, and let virtue garnish thy thoughts unceasingly,
then shall thy confidence wax strong in the presence of God, and
the doctrine of the Priesthood shall distil upon thy soul as the
dews from heaven.

"The Holy Ghost shall be thy constant companion, and thy sceptre
an unchanging sceptre of righteousness and truth, and thy dominion
shall be an everlasting dominion, and without compulsory means it
shall flow unto thee forever and ever."

(Doc. & Cov., Sec. 121:34-46.)

* * * * * 
QUESTIONS AND SUGGESTIONS--CHAPTER XXII 
1.

What constitutes good discipline?

2. What factors contribute to make discipline a real problem in our
Church?

3. Discuss our attitude toward discipline today as compared with the
attitude toward it a generation ago.

4. Name the various methods of securing discipline.

5. Discuss their relative values.

6. Why is the teacher's attitude so important a factor in discipline?

7.

What qualities are involved in the proper attitude?

8. Discuss preparation in its bearing upon discipline.

HELPFUL REFERENCES
Doctrine & Covenants; Bagley, _School Discipline_; O'Shea, _Everyday
Problems in Teaching_; Brumbaugh, _The Making of a Teacher_; Dewey,
_Interest and Effort in Education_.

CHAPTER XXIII
CREATING CLASS SPIRIT
OUTLINE--CHAPTER XXIII
The "pull" of a good class.--The appeal of an attractive classroom.--Making
it "our room."--The teacher and class spirit.--Capitalizing
on the leadership of the class.--Stimulating free participation.--Out
of class activities.--Some possibilities.

There is a "pull" to certain classes--a pull that has all the force
of a magnet.

       Pupils not only go to such a class willingly, but anticipate with
pleasure the approach of the recitation hour.

When duty is coupled with pleasure, there is a force for righteousness
that is beyond measure.

Of the various factors that contribute to the creation of a class spirit,
the following are offered as being among the most helpful.

1. _An Attractive Classroom._ While it is true that most of the organizations
in the Church do not have surplus funds for beautifying their buildings,
and while it is equally true that many a good lesson has been
conducted on the dirt floors of long cabins, it is equally true
that rooms can be beautified, and that pleasant surroundings can
be made a potent force in holding to our organizations the men and
women and boys and girls of the Church.

Of course, elaborate, expensive decorations ought to be discouraged.

Simplicity always is more consistent with the spirit of worship
than is extravagance.

But contrast the difference in effect on children of a bare, untidy,
makeshift room as against a cozy room decorated with a few beautiful
pictures or draperies and made homelike with comfortable seats and
tidy arrangement.

Nor is any great expense involved.

The writer recalls visiting a kindergarten class in one of the
schools in Salt Lake County.

The ward authorities had not been asked for a dollar to fit up the room,
and yet it had one of the "homiest" atmospheres imaginable.

The teacher of the class, in addition to having an interest in
the class, had an artistic temperament. She had collected through a
number of years the most beautiful pictures that had appeared in
the magazines.

These in their home-made frames transformed the walls of her room into
a veritable art gallery--wherever the eye of the visitor rested,
it was greeted by a picture that, through its beauty, drove home
an appreciation of the finer things of life.

The children, too, had been stimulated to a pride in their room. They
had brought in the available old rags from their homes and, as the result
of a Sunday School entertainment which they had put on with the co-operation
of the other departments of the school, they had had the rags woven into
one of those cheerful, old-fashioned home-made carpets. It was perfectly
clear that the children took delight in going to this "their room" each
Sunday morning. Their pride prompted them to take care of what they
regarded as their room, and made for a spirit of quiet and good order
hard to surpass.

During the course in teacher-training at Provo, last summer, one
of the members of the class courteously took the pains to see that
a bouquet of flowers adorned the teacher's desk each day that the
class met.

It is impossible to estimate the effect of those flowers. Their beauty,
coupled with the thoughtfulness that brought them in, made for a
"fragrance of spirit" that exerted a remarkable influence.

Once the idea becomes established, pupils will take delight in
making their classroom a place in which they will love to meet.

2.

_The Teacher._ We have already discussed at length the personality
of the teacher and its force in teaching.

We need only emphasize the fact here that the magnetism of the teacher,
either through what he is or what he gives, is the one great factor
that makes for class spirit.

The class inevitably reflects the attitude of the man who directs it. He
must radiate enthusiasm before it can be caught by his pupils.

His inspiration in making them feel that their class is "the one class"
of an organization is only too gladly responded to by those whom
he teaches.

If he impresses the class with the fact that he joins with them because
he loves so to do rather than because he has a duty to perform--if
he makes suggestions in the interest of a better class--if he starts
out by doing something himself by way of a contribution to the class
and its spirit--he can be reasonably sure that his class will come
more than half-way to join in his plans.

Not only his attitude is a vital factor--his preparation must be
of the same enthusiastic type. A pupil of a very successful teacher in
Salt Lake City recently made the remark, "I wouldn't think of
missing Brother ----'s class.

He gives me food for a week."

Pressed as to the explanation of this enthusiasm, he added, "Brother ----
is unique.

He always attacks a subject in such a new and thorough way. He goes
below the surface and really teaches us the Gospel."

It is not strange, of course, that such advertising on the part of
class members has built up an enrollment of some seventy-five pupils.

Let us, then, remind ourselves that boys like a teacher
"Who has pep," "Who tells us something new," "Who doesn't preach
at us." 
3.

_Capitalizing on the Leadership of the Class._ Just as in every band of
horses there is a leader, so there is in every group of boys and
girls.

And as with the leaders, so with the followers. "Get the leaders," says a
veteran horseman, "and you have all the rest."

It is frequently the case that a teacher does not know intimately all of
his pupils. Perhaps in many cases that teacher can know well a few of
the outstanding leaders.

He can well accompany them on hikes, can take them to a theatre, a
ball game, or for a ride.

If he wins them they become his lieutenants--they make his class. A
word from him and these "under officers" lead the whole class to
the desired reaction.

"Take your leading pupils into your confidence and they will establish
you in the confidence of all the rest."

The experience is related of a teacher sent into southern Utah to
take charge of a class of boys who had "dismissed" three teachers
already, within the first half year of school.

When the newcomer arrived, the air was full of rumblings as to what
was to become of number four.

He was variously cautioned to make an early departure, to go into
school "armed" to "expect anything."

But this particular teacher appreciated the fact that he was best
armed when backed by the confidence and good will of his class.

It was an easy matter to have pointed out for him "the meanest boy of
the lot." This boy he sought out and found playing a game of horseshoe.
Invited to take a place in the game, he entered the circle of the
"outlaws" by winning decisively from their champion--"the meanest boy."
To this boy, the new teacher was a "real fellow."

Whatever he said, went! The word was circulated overnight among the
boys of the town. The teacher already was master of the situation.

"The meanest boy," instead of being the chief outlaw, now took pride
in being chief lieutenant. Winning the leader won the group, and teacher
number four not only stayed the year out, but was petitioned to
come back a second year.

As a matter of fact, he says, he taught school in that town for seven
years.

4.

_Putting a Premium on Participation._ One of the most interesting classes
the writer has ever visited was a theological class in the Granite Stake.
The teacher was committed to the policy of taking as little as
possible of the class period himself, but he was also committed to
the policy of getting his pupils to do the most possible.

For the particular day in question he had assigned a discussion of
baptism.

One member of the class had been asked to discuss sprinkling as the correct
method, another had been assigned immersion. The two young men brought
in their findings as if they had been trained for a debate.
Within the forty minutes devoted to the recitation baptism had been
gone into as thoroughly as the writer has ever seen it gone into
during the course of a single lesson, and the members of the class
had been delightfully entertained and enlightened.

When the bell rang announcing the close of the recitation, the class
petitioned to have the discussion continued the following Sunday.

It was perfectly clear how the teacher had built up his enrollment.

It is fundamental in human nature to love social combat. The clash of
mind versus mind makes a wonderful appeal. Witness a political
convention or an open forum debate! Let it be known that a vital subject
is to be discussed by men who are really prepared and other men
bestir themselves to be in attendance.

Surely no subjects are full of more vital significance than questions
of life and life eternal.

If a teacher will take the pains to select attention-compelling headings
and then stimulate representative members of his class really to work
out something of a contribution, he need have no fear of the success
of his class.

Such procedure not only guarantees a good class--it promotes faith on
the part of those participating as few other things can. Too frequently
we content ourselves with the routine of commonplace "talk." There
is no enthusiasm in mere routine as there is none in listless listening
to generalities. Our effort should be to make our classes intellectual
social centers with everybody participating.

5.

_Promoting Class Activities Out of Hours._ The Seventies who harvested
the grain for the widow of one of their members did a splendid bit of
service, not only for her but for their own quorum.

A common objective in service made for a common bond in fellowship.

The Primary class that was stimulated to take a basket of flowers
to one of its sick members was helped not only in the making of
someone happy, but in building up a class spirit that guaranteed
success.

There are so many possibilities open to the teacher who really cares.

Just the other evening the teacher of a class of Bee Hive girls called
them together for a little social entertainment that they might
talk over plans for the approaching season.

What a capital attitude?

Not to wait till the season opened, but to take the pains to look
up the available, prospective class members and make ready for an
enthusiastic campaign.

Of course, such a teacher will succeed.

Class socials of all sorts, baseball teams, authors' clubs, bits of ward
service, visits to institutions of interest--scores of worthy
opportunities present themselves always to the teacher who is anxious
to build up a genuine class spirit.

And that spirit is the one great guarantee of real joy in teaching--it
makes a class one which its members will always hold in memory

.

* * * * *

QUESTIONS AND SUGGESTIONS--CHAPTER XXIII
1. Why is it essential that a teacher build up a class spirit?

2. Give three practical suggestions on the subject of beautifying
classrooms.

3.

Discuss the importance of the attitude of a teacher in promoting
class spirit.

4. Point out possible methods for enlisting the co-operation of class
leaders.

5. What do you consider your best method of stimulating members to
participate in class discussions?

6. What kind of class activities contribute most to the life of your
class?

7.

Discuss the advisability of promoting class athletic teams.

HELPFUL REFERENCES

Colgrove, _The Teacher and the School_; Weigle, _Talks to Sunday
School Teachers_; Dewey, _Interest and Effort in Education_; O'Shea,
_Everyday Problems in Teaching_; Norsworthy and Whitley, _Psychology
of Childhood_.

CHAPTER XXIV

CONVERSION--THE REAL TEST OF TEACHING
OUTLINE--CHAPTER XXIV

Character, a great power in conversion.--Our concern the converted teacher
and also the converted pupil.

--The converted teacher believes what he teaches.

--The converted teacher practices what he teaches.--The force of "Come,
follow me."--What makes for conversion.--The teacher's
obligation to kindle the spiritual fire.

--His obligation to feature testimony-bearing.

--His obligation to take his pupils where they will feel the spirit
of testimony.

A number of years ago a young graduate of one of our eastern universities
was employed to teach science in a school in Japan.

He was employed with the understanding that though he was free to
advance whatever scientific theories he chose he should say nothing
about his Christian religion.

He accepted the conditions gladly, and during the first year of his service
was careful not even to mention Christianity.

He not only taught his classes in science, but he joined with the
boys in their athletics and in their social life generally.

Being both an athlete and a leader, he was soon looked to as the
life of the school.

His clean life was an inspiration. He inevitably set a Christian standard.
Before the end of the second year, though he had preached never a
word, forty young men made application for membership in his church.

His life and ideals had converted them as no preaching could have
done.

What was true in this case is inevitably true in the case of all
real teachers.

What a man is breathes a power of conversion that no force or
argument can equal.

Hence this concluding chapter--Conversion, the Real Test of Teaching.

First of all, we are concerned with the conversion of the teacher; secondly,
with the conversion of the pupil. They are inseparably interwoven. Only
the converted teacher can make converts of his pupils.
And surely there is very great need of this very thing--_the making
of real converts of our boys and girls_ that they may come fully
to appreciate the significance of the Gospel of Jesus Christ.

Upon them rests the carrying forward of that great work which only
the _conversion_ of our pioneer forefathers could have achieved.

In the first place, the converted teacher _believes_ what he teaches.

There is no half-hearted attitude toward the subject in hand.

To him it is both true and vital. He teaches with a positiveness
and an assurance which grip pupils.

What a difference between the speech in which a speaker merely makes
certain observations--sets forth certain specified facts--and the
speech in which those same facts are heightened by that glow of
conviction which stamps them as indispensably essential to proper
living.

The prayer of a man who does not believe in prayer is an example of the
emptiness of unbelief.

Though his eyes were shut and
he made neither sound nor movement, she felt that he was searching her,
that he was straining all his mental forces to steal the thoughts that
were throbbing through her mind. As they drew near to their destination,
she fiercely exerted the self-control that was one of her least
developed virtues, and by the time they reached the Savoy, and Monsieur
Dupont opened his eyes, she was steady and watchful.

"Mademoiselle," said Monsieur Dupont softly, "you will be of the
greatest assistance. Already you know the value of silence."

In his private sitting-room they found Tranter awaiting them.

"My friend," said Monsieur Dupont, "this lady will work with us. She is
much attached to James Layton, and her assistance will be most
valuable." He turned to her. "Mademoiselle, I have not the honor...."

"My name's Jenny West," she said, comprehending the request.

"Where is Layton?" Tranter asked, as Monsieur Dupont placed a chair for
the girl, and sat down himself.

"By this time," Monsieur Dupont replied, "he will have arrived at
Scotland Yard. Our friend Inspector Fay will question him, and he will
certainly be detained. As I have just explained to mademoiselle, he is
in great danger. Unless we succeed in our object, his position is
without hope."

Tears welled up in the girl's eyes, but she checked them with an effort.

"I wish," Monsieur Dupont continued, with careful emphasis, "that my own
position also should be clearly understood, in so far as I am at liberty
to explain it. I cannot yet tell you how I come to be interested in this
affair. Soon I may do so--but until then you must be content to take me
on trust, and to accept my assurance that I am fully qualified to direct
you. Are you willing to follow my instructions without question--to save
this innocent man, who will be accused of a horrible crime which he did
not commit?"

"Yes, yes," the girl cried. "I am ready. I will do anything."

"And I," said Tranter.

"The directions I give may seem to be strange," Monsieur Dupont went on
impressively--"but they must be followed. The errands on which I send
you may seem to be unimportant and even foolish--but they must be
carried out. Do not look for explanations, until I make them. I give
account to no one. Those who work with me work much in the dark--but
they reach the light. There must be no hesitation. Is that understood?"

Again the others agreed.

"Then," said Monsieur Dupont confidently, "we shall succeed. Layton will
be saved--but it will be a hard and difficult task. The first law I have
to impose on you is--silence. Complete silence, to every one except
myself."

He turned to the girl.

"At three o'clock this afternoon, mademoiselle, unless you hear from me
to the contrary, you will go to Scotland Yard, where Mr. Layton will be
detained. That I shall verify by telephone. You will see him, and you
will tell him this: You will say that I, Dupont, know how and why
Christine Manderson died--that I, and those with me, will not allow the
innocent to suffer--and that he shall be delivered from this charge. And
say to him, also, anything from yourself that you may wish to say."

They were both gazing at him blankly.

"You know?" the girl gasped. "You know who killed her?"

The great Frenchman seemed to develop before their eyes into a figure
of tremendous menace, every inch of him alive with implacable,
relentless purpose.

"I know," he declared slowly, "just what I have told you--how and why
she died. Ask me no more. Remember our conditions. There must be no
questions until the time comes."

He rose, and took an envelope from his pocket.

"Certain things that I shall ask you to do, mademoiselle, may involve
expense. In this envelope you will find a sufficient sum. Do not
hesitate to accept it. Ample funds are at our command. When you return
from Scotland Yard, report to me here. If I am not in, wait for me. And,
above all, remember--silence."

He opened the door, and bowed her out. Then he turned to Tranter with a
faint smile.

"Well, my friend?" he asked quietly.

"Do you really mean," Tranter exclaimed, "that you know the truth of the
crime?"

Monsieur Dupont offered him a cigar, and lit one himself with great
composure.

"I know just as much about the crime, my friend, as I have said. I
repeat--I know how and why that unfortunate woman died. Who, or what,
caused her to die is another matter, which we are setting ourselves to
solve."

"You are certain that Layton is innocent?"

"James Layton did not commit the crime," Monsieur Dupont returned
firmly. "But he will be hanged for it--if we are not in time."

"Well," said Tranter, "what is there for me to do?"

"For you," replied Monsieur Dupont, "there is the most important task in
the case, so far. And the most dangerous. Within twenty-four hours you
must discover, and bring to me here, the secret of the Crooked House."

"Good Lord!" Tranter exclaimed, taken aback, "how on earth am I to do
that?"

"I do not know," Monsieur Dupont admitted. "Nor have I any helpful
suggestions to make. The method of procedure I leave to you."

"Housebreaking is entirely out of my province," Tranter objected. "And
the secret of that house, if there is one, is likely to be very well
guarded."

"Probably," agreed Monsieur Dupont. "But the fact remains that before
the end of the next twenty-four hours I must have that secret--and you
are the person who must bring it to me."

Tranter took up his hat and stick, without further protest.

"Very well," he said stoutly. "I will do my best."

Monsieur Dupont looked at his watch.

"It is one o'clock," he said, opening the door. "At one o'clock
to-morrow I shall be waiting for you in this room."


CHAPTER XVII

MR. GLUCKSTEIN IN CONFIDENCE


Mrs. Astley-Rolfe invariably received her creditors in pink deshabille.

The financier, Mr. Solomon Gluckstein, original and senior
representative of John Brown & Co., Jermyn Street, was particularly fond
of pink, and extremely susceptible to deshabille. Whiskey-and-soda,
personally prepared for him in sufficient strength by his charming
debtor, increased the fondness and the susceptibility.

"Ma tear lady," said Mr. Gluckstein, with desperate firmness, "I have
come on an unplethant errand."

Mrs. Astley-Rolfe pouted petulantly.

"Am I to have no peace?" she complained, from an alluring attitude on a
couch. "Isn't it enough to have gone through the last two days? Look at
me. I am a nervous wreck."

"Then all women wouldth with to be nervouth wrecks," said Mr. Gluckstein
gallantly.

"I believe that odious detective actually imagined at the beginning that
I might have murdered the poor girl."

"Nonthenth," the financier assured her.

"I have scarcely had any sleep," she went on reproachfully. "It is a
wonder I am not thoroughly ill. And now you--from whom I should have
expected consideration--come here with a face like a rock, and announce
your intention to be unpleasant. If I didn't know you so well, I might
have believed you."

Mr. Gluckstein glanced towards the door, and drew his chair closer to
her.

"Let us understand each other," he said deliberately. "At the present
time you owe me a large thum of money."

"Gospel truth," she admitted.

"Very much more than you could pothibly pay, if I came down on you."

She uttered a sigh of relief.

"At last you realize that!" she exclaimed thankfully.

"Also," continued Mr. Gluckstein, "you owe money to various other
people."

"Your veracity," she confessed, "is beyond question."

"Almosth ath much ath you owe to me."

"Quite as much," she said cheerfully.

"And you owe me," he continued--"twelve thousand poundth."

"The first time I have looked the evil fully in the face," she
shuddered.

His small eyes regarded her intently.

"The last half of that--I lent to you on a certain understanding."

"Understanding?" she echoed languidly.

"Yeth."

"What did you understand?"

"That you intended to become engaged to George Copplesthone, who would
pay your debths when you married him."

A quick change swept over her. She became hard and calculating.

"Well?" she returned.

"You have not become engaged to him."

"No."

"Some one elth became engaged to him."

"Yes," she said calmly.

"That doth not look," he concluded, "like fulfillment of the
understanding."

"Doesn't it?" she retorted.

He glanced again at the door, and came still closer.

"Lithen," he said slowly. "I have been your friendth. I have done for
you what I would not have done for any one elth. I have treated you
fairly, and I have never prethed you."

She softened immediately.

"You have been very kind to me," she said gratefully.

"You muth be my friendth too. I muth tell you my thecret. Promith me
faithfully that you will keep it."

She looked at him in astonishment.

"Certainly I will keep it," she agreed.

"Five days ago," Mr. Gluckstein informed her painfully, "my partner
abthconded, and left me almosth a ruined man."

Her face expressed genuine sympathy.

"I am very sorry," she said feelingly. "What a dreadful blow for you."

"It ith unnethecessary to explain bithness details to you," the
financier proceeded. "My working capital hath gone, and the fact thimply
is that I cannot carry on--unleth----" he paused to give his words
additional emphasis, "unleth you repay me my twelve thousand poundth in
full within two months."

"Two months?" she exclaimed blankly.

"Two months," he repeatedly firmly. "That ith the utmost time I can give
you. It mattered now little to these when Sherman came, or when Kilpatrick's
guidons should flutter through the forest of sighing pines, heralds
of life, happiness, and home--
After life's fitful fever they slept well Treason had done its worst.

Nor steel nor poison:
Malice domestic, foreign levy, nothing Could touch them farther.

One day another order came for us to be loaded on the cars, and over
to the railroad we went again in the same fashion as before.

The comparatively few of us who were still able to walk at all well,
loaded ourselves down with the bundles and blankets of our less
fortunate companions, who hobbled and limped--many even crawling
on their hands and knees--over the hard, frozen ground, by our
sides.

Those not able to crawl even, were taken in wagons, for the orders
were imperative not to leave a living prisoner behind.

At the railroad we found two trains awaiting us.

On the front of each engine were two rude white flags, made by
fastening the halves of meal sacks to short sticks.

The sight of these gave us some hope, but our belief that Rebels
were constitutional liars and deceivers was so firm and fixed, that
we persuaded ourselves that the flags meant nothing more than some
wilful delusion for us.

Again we started off in the direction of Wilmington, and traversed the
same country described in the previous chapter. Again Andrews and I
found ourselves in the next box car to the passenger coach containing the
Rebel officers. Again we cut a hole through the end, with our
saw, and again found a darky servant sitting on the rear platform.

Andrews went out and sat down alongside of him, and found that he
was seated upon a large gunny-bag sack containing the cooked rations
of the Rebel officers.

He paused to finish his drink, but his crafty eyes never left her face.
She did not meet them.

"I wonder," he said, in a slightly lower tone, replacing his empty glass
on the table, "what the police will discover."

"I should imagine that there is very little to be discovered," she
returned. "There seems no doubt that it was James Layton, the Mad
Millionaire, as he is called. He will probably be arrested within the
next twenty-four hours. It appears to be a clear case. He threatened
her--in front of us all. And he was in the garden."

"It ought to be enough," he admitted, more easily. "What more could they
want?"

"The evidence is very strong," she said, lazily settling her deshabille.
"Many people have been hanged on less. Apparently the police are
satisfied. At least, they have not arrested either of us."

The financier started violently.

"Either of uth?" he cried, aghast. "What do you mean, either of uth?"

Her smile was enigmatical.

"As you said just now--the removal of the obstacle was to the advantage
of both of us."

"But they don't know," he shivered. "They can't know."

"I hope not," she said shortly.

Perspiration began to stand out on his forehead. He had lost color
considerably.

"You promised to keep my thecret," he exclaimed nervously. "Noth a word
to any one."

"I shall keep my promise," she replied.

"There is no cause for alarm. I don't think Inspector Fay will trouble
us."

There was a tap at the door. They turned as the butler entered.

"Inspector Fay would like to see you for a few minutes, madam."

They looked at each other. The financier was agitated. The woman was
perfectly calm.

"Talk of the devil!" she smiled.

Mr. Gluckstein gripped his hat, stick, and gloves, and rose hurriedly.

"He must not see me here," he said jerkily. "Let me out another way."

"Go through there," she said, pointing to a door at the opposite end of
the room, "and when he has come in, Parker will let you out. Bring the
inspector in, Parker."

The financier did not wait to shake hands.

"Remember," he whispered passing her--"both your promises."

"They will be kept," she said.


CHAPTER XVIII

THE WIT OF THE PINK LADY


Inspector Fay entered the room at one end a few seconds after Mr.
Gluckstein left it at the other.

Mrs. Astley-Rolfe greeted him in a friendly fashion. She showed
considerable strain--but, otherwise, was looking her best. And her best
was delightful.

"Good morning, inspector," she said languidly.

"Good morning, madam." He glanced back to make certain that the door was
closed. "I trust you have recovered from the shock of the crime."

"I still feel it very much," she replied, shuddering. "It was the most
horrible experience I have ever had. To think of seeing that poor girl
alive and well one minute, and the next--like that. It's too dreadful to
think of."

"It was certainly a most disgusting crime," the inspector agreed.

"I suppose it was James Layton?"

"I am afraid I cannot make any statement at present," he replied. "Our
investigations are proceeding as quickly as possible. I hope we shall
clear it up in a few days."

"I hope you will," she declared fervently. "Such a brutal criminal can
expect no mercy."

"In the meantime," continued the inspector, "I should be much obliged if
you would kindly give me a little information."

"Certainly," she said readily. "Sit down."

He sat down, facing her. She made a charming picture. But Inspector Fay
had been taken in by charming women several times during the early part
of his career, and at this stage of it was as impervious as an oyster.

"Please understand," he began, "that in asking these questions I am
making no insinuations or suggestions of any kind. It is necessary to
establish certain facts."

"I quite understand," she assured him. "What do you want to know?"

"I want to know what you were saying to Mr. Copplestone in the garden,
before Mr. Tranter came to tell him that Miss Manderson had gone into
the house."

She started.

"I?" she exclaimed. "I was not with Mr. Copplestone."

He remained silent.

"I told you, I was not with any one. I did not feel quite myself, and
strolled about alone."

The inspector's face was quite impassive.

"You wish me to accept that answer?" he asked quietly.

She stiffened haughtily.

"What do you mean?" she said sharply.

"I mean that you wish that answer to be accepted as the truth?"

"Of course. Are you suggesting that it is not?"

"I am suggesting nothing," he returned, with unruffled composure. "But I
must tell you that if I am to accept that answer, it may have serious
consequences."

"Serious consequences?" she echoed, startled.

"Yes."

"For whom?"

"Possibly for Mr. Copplestone himself."

Signs of uneasiness began to appear, in spite of her wonderful
self-control.

"For Mr. Copplestone...?"

"For Mr. Copplestone," the inspector affirmed steadily.

"I don't understand," she said. "Will you kindly explain?"

"Certainly." His voice dropped slightly. "Mr. Copplestone lied to me."

"Lied to you?"

"Lied to me," he repeated. "In accounting for himself, from the time he
came out into the garden after dinner until Mr. Tranter found him to
deliver Miss Manderson's message, he lied to me deliberately. I want to
know why."

"You had better ask him," she retorted. "I do not know."

"Mr. Bolsover, the theatrical manager, told me that he found James
Layton lurking by the house, and called to Mr. Copplestone before
following him. Mr. Copplestone stated that the reason he did not hear
that call was that he had gone into the house to refill his
cigarette-case, and did not come out again until just before Mr. Tranter
found him after leaving Miss Manderson. That statement was false."

"How do you know?" she asked quickly.

"He did not go into the house to refill his cigarette-case. He had had
no opportunity to smoke afterwards, and when I questioned him his case
was almost empty. He may have gone in for another reason----or he may
not have gone in at all."

"Is it not very trivial?" she said.

"If you had been dealing with crimes and criminals as long as I have,"
the inspector returned, "you would know that nothing is trivial. At
present, Mr. Copplestone's time while the crime was being committed is
unaccounted for--and he is detected in a lie. It is not a pleasant
position to be in."

She was silent. Her hands moved nervously.

"What is the use of telling me this?" she asked.

"It occurred to me," he replied, "that you might be able to extricate
him from that position."

"Why?" she demanded resentfully.

He shrugged his shoulders.

"Can you?" he insisted, watching her closely.

For a moment she paused. There was malevolence in her gaze.

"I do not know what he was doing," she said obstinately.

"Madam," said the inspector impressively, "if George Copplestone stood
in the dock in front of you, and his life depended on the truth of your
answer--would it still be the same answer?"

She turned on him.

"In the dock? What do you mean?"

"Would it still be the same answer?" he repeated sternly.

"Do you suggest that he may have committed the crime?" she exclaimed
contemptuously. "Its absurd!"

"I told you," he said, "I suggest nothing. My case must be complete. I
want to know the truth."

Silence followed. She plucked angrily at the lace edge of her gown.
Inspector Fay waited imperturbably.

"He was with me," she said, at last, sullenly.

"Thank you," said the inspector.

There was another pause.

"Please go on," he pressed her.

She did not attempt to conceal her resentment at his insistence. But the
inspector's attitude was compelling.

"We had a private conversation," she said viciously. "What passed
between us concerned only ourselves."

"I have no wish to pry into that," he told her. "But I should like to
know why both you and Mr. Copplestone preferred to tell me a falsehood
rather than admit that you were talking together in the garden."

"We had our reasons," she snapped, "for not wishing it to be known that
we had been together. We had no time to speak privately after the crime
was discovered, and it evidently seemed best to both of us, rather than
risk conflicting statements, not to admit that we had spoken to each
other at all. I hope you have nothing more to ask me."

The inspector rose.

"I have nothing more to ask you, madam," he said politely. "I trust it
will not be necessary for me to trouble you again in this case. But if
it should be--you will find that in such serious matters it is always
better to speak the truth. Good morning."

He walked quickly out of the room, leaving a lady in pink deshabille
quivering with an emotion that was not anger, but a new triumph.


CHAPTER XIX

DETAINED ON SUSPICION


Inspector Fay left the house of the lady in pink with a satisfied
expression on his face. At the corner of the street he hailed a taxi,
and drove to Scotland Yard.

Under the watchful eyes of his escort, James Layton awaited him. The
millionaire was perfectly composed, and appeared to be under no
apprehension as to the outcome of his visit. He accompanied the
inspector to a private room, and sat down in a comfortable chair without
the smallest sign of alarm.

"Mr. James Layton?" the inspector began, seating himself at a table.

"Yes."

"Mr. Layton, I am Inspector Fay--in charge of the investigations of the
death of Miss Christine Manderson, at Richmond, on Tuesday night. I want
you to be good enough to answer the questions I have to ask you as
clearly as possible."

"Certainly," the young man replied, unhesitatingly.

"To begin with--did you go to Richmond on that night?"

"I did."

"Were you alone?"

"I was."

"Did you call at Mr. Copplestone's house at half-past eight?"

"Yes."

"You asked to see Mr. Copplestone?"

"Yes."

"And he refused to see you?"

"He did."

"What was your object in calling on him, in that manner, at such an
inconvenient time?"

"I had just ascertained that Miss Manderson had, or was about to, become
engaged to marry him. My object was to tell him that he was not a fit
person to be her husband, and that I would prevent the marriage at all
costs."

"That you would prevent the marriage?"

"Yes."

"Because, in your opinion, he was unworthy of her?"

"Totally."

"Had you any right to take upon yourself the control of Miss Manderson's
choice of a husband?"

"No right, perhaps--as you use the term."

"As any one would use it?"

"To my mind, yes."

"To your mind you had a right to interfere in that engagement?"

"Yes."

"We will come back to that presently," the inspector proceeded. "What
did you do when Mr. Copplestone refused to see you?"

"I am afraid my excitement got the better of me. I forced my way past
the servant, and went into a room from which I heard voices, thinking
that he was there with her."

"You knew, then, that she was in the house at the time?"

"Yes. I had previously telephoned to her hotel, and her maid had told me
that she was spending the evening at Copplestone's house."

"I am told you burst into the room uttering her name."

"Possibly."

"But you found only some guests of Mr. Copplestone's, who had been
invited to dinner?"

"Yes."

"Was there anything strange about the room?"

"It was decorated in an extraordinary manner."

"I think you made some remark about the decorations?"

"Perhaps I did. I had been told something of Mr. Copplestone's
eccentricities, and I inferred that the engagement was an accomplished
fact, and that the decorations had been put up in celebration of it."

"Do you remember saying anything else in the room?"

"I said that rather than allow Miss Manderson to be engaged to George
Copplestone, I would tear her to pieces with my own hands."

"And utterly destroy her?"

"Yes."

"A somewhat violent announcement," the inspector observed.

"I am afraid it was."

"You were in a state of great excitement, were you not?"

"I was very excited."

"Almost beside yourself?"

"I cannot say that."

"Were you responsible for your words and actions at the time?"

"Perfectly."

"You really meant what you said?"

"I meant what I said," the young man declared calmly.

The inspector was writing rapidly.

"You were then requested to leave the house, and I think you left quite
quietly?"

"Yes."

"What did you do then?"

"I climbed over the wall into the garden and waited for an opportunity
to get into the house again and speak to Copplestone or Miss Manderson."

"You were behaving rather strangely, were you not, Mr. Layton?" the
inspector asked.

"I suppose I was."

"If you had heard of any one else acting in the same way, you would have
thought that he could hardly have been in a normal state of mind?"

"I expect I should."

"Yet you say you were quite yourself?"

"I was quite myself."

"And prepared to carry out your threat?"

"I do not know what I was prepared to do. I did not carry it out."

"Later on, one of the guests, Mr. Bolsover, found you creeping round the
house towards an open window?"

"Yes."

"Before he ran after you, do you remember hearing him call to Mr.
Copplestone?"

"Yes, he did."

"Was there any answer?"

"I did not hear one."

"Mr. Bolsover then followed you out in the direction in which the crime
was committed?"

"I do not know where the crime was committed," Layton replied firmly.
"I know nothing of the crime."

"Whoever committed it managed to fulfill your own threat fairly fully."

"Unfortunately, yes."

"Have you any suggestion to make as to who that person may have been?"

"No."

"What, then, did you do when Mr. Bolsover ran after you?"

"I eluded him in the darkness, climbed over the wall again, and went
away."

"Without having fulfilled your object?"

"Yes."

"Had you seen anything at all of Miss Manderson, or Mr. Copplestone?"

"Nothing."

There was a pause. James Layton waited quietly while the inspector
finished off his notes. His face was a trifle paler than before, but he
betrayed no sign of agitation.

"Now," resumed the inspector, "let us go back. You said that to your
mind you had a right to interfere in Miss Manderson's engagement?"

"I did."

"What had given you that right?"

"I am sorry," the young man returned courteously--"but I decline to
answer that question."

"When and where did you first meet her?"

"I cannot tell you."

"You would be wiser to do so."

"Possibly."

The inspector's face darkened.

"Mr. Layton," he said, with unmistakable emphasis, "you had better not
decline to answer any question. I must warn you that your position may
become extremely serious."

"I am afraid," Layton remarked quietly, "that you have already made up
your mind that I am guilty of the crime."

"That is as it may be," replied the inspector. "I am advising you for
your own good. To refuse to answer questions is not the way to allay
suspicion--but to increase it."

"I realize that," the young man said. "But I still refuse."

Inspector Fay leant back in his chair patiently.

"Come, Mr. Layton, you will only put us to the trouble and delay of
proving what you might as well tell us at once. And it will do you no
good."

"I should be sorry to cause you any additional trouble," Layton replied.
"But I have my reasons."

"Let me help you," continued the inspector. "I have had inquiries made
at Miss Manderson's hotel, at the theater at which she was to have
appeared, of her maid, and various other sources. We have got her time
pretty well accounted for. It seems that you have not seen her at all
since she arrived in this country two months ago. Is that so?"

There was no answer.

"Anyway, if you did see her once or twice, there were certainly no
opportunities for anything to develop between you to account for your
behavior, or justify to the right to which you considered yourself
entitled. You must have known her before."

Layton was still silent. The inspector continued easily.

"I am wondering whether a cable across the Atlantic would bring me a
description of a certain Michael Cranbourne, once well known in the
United States--particularly in Chicago--son of a multi-millionaire."

James Layton stiffened in his chair. He had become white and tense.

"A large part in the career of Michael Cranbourne was played by an
adventuress named Thea Colville--said, at one time, to have been the
most beautiful woman in America--and known later, on the stage in New
York, as Christine Manderson."

The young man rose. On his face there was a wonderful new dignity and
calm--a relief, as if some heavy burden had dropped from him and left
him free.

"Yes," he said quietly, "I am Michael Cranbourne. I might have admitted
it at first. What do you want now?"

"The whole story," the inspector replied, motioning him back to his
chair.

"I will tell you," he said.

He sat down again. A great contentment seemed to rest upon him, as on
one who reaches the end of a difficult and tiring journey. There was a
long pause.

"I first met Thea Colville," he began, at last, "in Chicago, when I was
twenty-five--seven years ago. She was twenty. It would be no use
attempting to give you an idea of what she was like. You never saw her
alive. No description could convey an impression of her beauty--of her
awful fascination. From the moment I first saw her there was no other
woman in my world. I was engaged to be married, but I put an end to it.
People said I behaved badly, but I didn't care. I couldn't look at, or
think of, another woman after I had seen her. She enslaved me. I was
hers, body and soul. She held me helpless. I was only one of many, but I
was a favored one--at least, I thought so."

He told his story slowly, in a low voice, without emotion. He was
staring out straight in front of him, forgetful of his surroundings and
his listener. The past held him.

"My family warned me, and threatened me. I knew they were telling me the
truth--but I wouldn't listen. I hadn't been brought up to care what
results my actions brought on other people. I thought only of myself--of
the indulgence of my own desires. I lived a useless, contemptible
life--entirely without scruples or restraints. There was scarcely a vice
that I was not steeped in--hardly a sin that I had not explored. I had
enough money to gratify all my senses. Nothing was beneath me. I plunged
into every depravity. I made new depths for myself." He clenched his
hands. "And I led others after me."

There was another pause. He sat rigid. The inspector waited patiently.

"I need not trouble you with unnecessary details," the low voice went
on. "It is enough that for her sake I sacrificed all my prospects--I
threw away my heritage. To keep her for myself I squandered every cent I
could lay my hands on. I robbed my own brother. I forged my father's
name. I did ... other things. It was only the generosity of my family
that kept me from gaol. And Thea threw me over."

"Apparently," the inspector remarked, not unsympathetically, "her
standard of morality was on a somewhat similar level."

"She is dead," said the young man gently. "'_De mortuis nil nisi
bonum._'"

The inspector shrugged his shoulders.

"As you please," he said. "Go on."

"She refused to see me--to have anything more to do with me. She cut me
out of her life with one stroke. For the first time I knew she hadn't
cared. That broke me. I was very ill. For a year I knew no one. I
couldn't hear or speak. They fed me like a child. They thought I was
mad"--his eyes began to gleam unnaturally, his words quickened--"but in
reality I was in the presence of God. I was in the image I had brought
upon my soul--black, hideous, distorted, reeking with the filth of my
sins. I saw myself--in all the degradation I had brought upon the Shape
of God. I saw my own page in the Book of Life. All the entries were on
the debit side. The credit side was bare. I waited for damnation--but
there is no damnation. There is only Building. I went out from the
presence of God--a Builder."

His face was transformed. His voice rang with triumph--with the pride of
victory.

"I came to myself. It was like waking from the dead. It was a long time
before I recovered even a little of my strength. Every hand was against
me--except my mother's. She stood by me. When she died, a year later, I
inherited the whole of her fortune. The others tried to take it away
from me, but I fought them. I had new uses for the money. I came over to
this country, and began my work. Never before had there been such a
demonstration of the power of heavy artillery. Huge cannon were pounded
into fragments, hills of sand ripped open, deep crevasses blown in the
ground by exploding shells, wooden buildings reduced to kindling-wood,
etc.

The ground was literally paved with fragments of shot and shell, which,
now red with rust from the corroding salt air, made the interior of
the fort resemble what one of our party likened it to "an old brickyard."

Whichever way we looked along the shores we saw abundant evidence of
the greatness of the business which gave the place its importance. In
all directions, as far as the eye could reach, the beach was dotted with
the bleaching skeletons of blockade-runners--some run ashore by
their mistaking the channel, more beached to escape the hot pursuit of
our blockaders.

Directly in front of the sea face of the fort, and not four hundred
yards from the savage mouths of the huge guns, the blackened timbers
of a burned blockade-runner showed above the water at low tide. Coming
in from Nassau with a cargo of priceless value to the gasping
Confederacy, she was observed and chased by one of our vessels, a
swifter sailer, even, than herself.

The war ship closed rapidly upon her.

She sought the protection of the guns of Fort Fisher, which opened
venomously on the chaser. They did not stop her, though they were less
than half a mile away. In another minute she would have sent the
Rebel vessel to the bottom of the sea, by a broadside from her heavy
guns, but the Captain of the latter turned her suddenly, and ran her
high up on the beach, wrecking his vessel, but saving the much
more valuable cargo.

Our vessel then hauled off, and as night fell, quiet was restored.

At midnight two boat-loads of determined men, rowing with muffled oars
moved silently out from the blockader towards the beached vessel.
In their boats they had some cans of turpentine, and several large
shells. When they reached the blockade-runner they found all her
crew gone ashore, save one watchman, whom they overpowered before he
could give the alarm. They cautiously felt their way around, with
the aid of a dark lantern, secured the ship's chronometer, her papers
and some other desired objects.

They then saturated with the turpentine piles of combustible material,
placed about the vessel to the best advantage, and finished by
depositing the shells where their explosion would ruin the machinery.

All this was done so near to the fort that the sentinels on the
parapets could be heard with the greatest distinctness as they
repeated their half-hourly cry of "All's well."

Their preparations completed, the daring fellows touched matches
to the doomed vessel in a dozen places at once, and sprang into
their boats.

The flames instantly enveloped the ship, and showed the gunners the
incendiaries rowing rapidly away. A hail of shot beat the water into a
foam around the boats, but their good fortune still attended them, and
they got back without losing a man.

The wind at length calmed sufficiently to encourage our Captain to
venture out, and we were soon battling with the rolling waves, far
out of sight of land.

For awhile the novelty of the scene fascinated me.

I was at last on the ocean, of which I had heard, read and imagined
so much.

The creaking cordage, the straining engine, the plunging ship, the wild
waste of tumbling billows, everyone apparently racing to where our
tossing bark was struggling to maintain herself, all had an entrancing
interest for me, and I tried to recall Byron's sublime apostrophe
to the ocean:
Thou glorious mirror, where the Almighty's form Classes itself in
tempest: in all time, Calm or convulsed-in breeze, or gale, or
storm, Icing the pole, or in the torrid clime Dark-heaving--boundless,
endless, and sublime-- The image of eternity--the throne Of the
invisible; even from out thy slime The monsters of the deep are
made; each zone Obey thee: thou goest forth, dread, fathomless,
alone,
Just then, my reverie was broken by the strong hand of the gruff
Captain of, the vessel descending upon my shoulder, and he said:
"See, here, youngster!

Ain't you the fellow that was put in command of these men?"
I acknowledged such to be the case.

"Well," said the Captain; "I want you to 'tend to your business and
straighten them around, so that we can clean off the decks."

I turned from the bulwark over which I had been contemplating the vasty
deep, and saw the sorriest, most woe-begone lot that the imagination can
conceive. Every mother's son was wretchedly sea-sick. They were
paying the penalty of their overfeeding in Wilmington; and every face
looked as if its owner was discovering for the first time what the real
lower depths of human misery was.

They all seemed afraid they would not die; as if they were praying for
death, but feeling certain that he was going back on them in a most
shameful way.

We straightened them around a little, washed them and the decks off with
a hose, and then I started down in the hold to see how matters
were with the six hundred down there. The boys there were much sicker
than those on deck.

As I lifted the hatch there rose an odor which appeared strong
enough to raise the plank itself. Every onion that had been issued to
us in Wilmington seemed to lie down there in the last stages of
decomposition.

All of the seventy distinct smells which Coleridge counted at Cologne might
have been counted in any given cubic foot of atmosphere, while the next
foot would have an entirely different and equally demonstrative
"bouquet."

I recoiled, and leaned against the bulwark, but soon summoned up
courage enough to go half-way down the ladder, and shout out in as
stern a tone as I could command:

"Here, now!

I want you fellows to straighten around there, right off, and help clean
up!"

They were as angry and cross as they were sick. They wanted nothing in
the world so much as the opportunity I had given them to swear at
and abuse somebody.

Every one of them raised on his elbow, and shaking his fist at me yelled
out:

"O, you go to ----, you ---- ---- ----.

Just come down another step, and I'll knock the whole head off 'en you."

I did not go down any farther.

Coming back on the deck my stomach began to feel qualmish.

Some wretched idiot, whose grandfather's grave I hope the jackasses have
defiled, as the Turks would say, told me that the best preventive
of sea-sickness was to drink as much of the milk punch as I could
swallow.

Like another idiot, I did so.

I went again to the side of the vessel, but now the fascination of the
scene had all faded out. The restless billows were dreary, savage,
hungry and dizzying; they seemed to claw at, and tear, and wrench
the struggling ship as a group of huge lions would tease and worry
a captive dog.

They distressed her and all on board by dealing a blow which would send
her reeling in one direction, but before she had swung the full
length that impulse would have sent her, catching her on the opposite
side with a stunning shock that sent her another way, only to meet
another rude buffet from still another side.

I thought we could all have stood it if the motion had been like that of
a swing-backward and forward--or even if the to and fro motion had
been complicated with a side-wise swing, but to be put through every
possible bewildering motion in the briefest space of time was more
than heads of iron and stomachs of brass could stand.

Mine were not made of such perdurable stuff.

They commenced mutinous demonstrations in regard to the milk punch.

I began wondering whether the milk was not the horrible beer swill,
stump-tail kind of which I had heard so much.

And the whisky in it; to use a vigorous Westernism, descriptive of
mean whisky, it seemed to me that I could smell the boy's feet who
plowed the corn from which it was distilled.

Then the onions I had eaten in Wilmington began to rebel, and
incite the bread, meat and coffee to gastric insurrection, and I
became so utterly wretched that life had no farther attractions.

While I was leaning over the bulwark, musing on the complete
hollowness of all earthly things, the Captain of the vessel caught
hold of me roughly, and said:
"Look here, you're just playin' the very devil a-commandin' these
here men.

Why in ---- don't you stiffen up, and hump yourself around, and
make these men mind, or else belt them over the head with a capstan
bar!

Now I want you to 'tend to your business.

D'you understand me?"

I turned a pair of weary and hopeless eyes upon him, and started
to say that a man who would talk to one in my forlorn condition of
"stiffening up," and "belting other fellows over the head with a
capstan bar," would insult a woman dying with consumption, but I
suddenly became too full for utterance.

The milk punch, the onions, the bread, and meat and coffee tired
of fighting it out in the narrow quarters where I had stowed them,
had started upwards tumultuously.

I turned my head again to the sea, and looking down into its
smaragdine depths, let go of the victualistic store which I had
been industriously accumulating ever since I had come through the
lines.

I vomited until I felt as empty and hollow as a stove pipe.

There was a vacuum that extended clear to my toe-nails. I feared that
every retching struggle would dent me in, all over, as one sees
tin preserving cans crushed in by outside pressure, and I apprehended
that if I kept on much longer my shoe-soles would come up after the
rest.

I will mention, parenthetically, that, to this day I abhor milk punch,
and also onions.

Unutterably miserable as I was I could not refrain from a ghost of a
smile, when a poor country boy near me sang out in an interval
between vomiting spells:
"O, Captain, for God's sake, stop the boat and lem'me go ashore,
and I swear I'll walk every step of the way home."

He was like old Gonzalo in the 'Tempest:'
Now world I give a thousand furlongs of sea for an acre of barren
ground; long heath; brown furze; anything.

The wills above be done!
but I would fain die a dry death.

After this misery had lasted about two days we got past Cape Hatteras,
and out of reach of its malign influence, and recovered as rapidly
as we had been prostrated.

We regained spirits and appetites with amazing swiftness; the sun
came out warm and cheerful, we cleaned up our quarters and ourselves
as best we could, and during the remainder of the voyage were as
blithe and cheerful as so many crickets.

The fun in the cabin was rollicking.

The officers had been as sick as the men, but were wonderfully
vivacious when the 'mal du mer' passed off.

In the party was a fine glee club, which had been organized at "Camp
Sorgum," the officers' prison at Columbia.

Its leader was a Major of the Fifth Iowa Cavalry, who possessed a
marvelously sweet tenor voice, and well developed musical powers.

While we were at Wilmington he sang "When Sherman Marched Down to
the Sea," to an audience of soldiers that packed the Opera House
densely.

The enthusiasm he aroused was simply indescribable; men shouted, and the
tears ran down their faces. He was recalled time and again, each
time with an increase in the furore.

The audience would have staid there all night to listen to him sing
that one song. Poor fellow, he only went home to die. An attack of
pneumonia carried him off within a fortnight after we separated at
Annapolis.

The Glee Club had several songs which they rendered in regular negro
minstrel style, and in a way that was irresistibly ludicrous.

One of their favorites was "Billy Patterson."

All standing up in a ring, the tenors would lead off:

"I saw an old man go riding by,"
and the baritones, flinging themselves around with the looseness of Christy's
Minstrels, in a "break down," would reply:

"Don't tell me! Don't tell me!"
Then the tenors would resume:

"Says I, Ole man, your horse'll die."
Then the baritones, with an air of exaggerated interest;
"A-ha-a-a, Billy Patterson!"

Tenors:

"For. It he dies, I'll tan his skin; An' if he lives I'll ride him
agin,"
All-together, with a furious "break down" at the close:

"Then I'll lay five dollars down, And count them one by one; Then I'll
lay five dollars down, If anybody will show me the man That
struck Billy Patterson."

And so on. It used to upset my gravity entirely to see a crowd
of grave and dignified Captains, Majors and Colonels going through this
nonsensical drollery with all the abandon of professional burnt-cork
artists.

As we were nearing the entrance to Chesapeake Bay we passed a great
monitor, who was exercising her crew at the guns.

She fired directly across our course, the huge four hundred pound balls
shipping along the water, about a mile ahead of us, as we boys
used to make the flat stones skip in the play of "Ducks and Drakes."
One or two of the shots came so.
close that I feared she might be mistaking us for a Rebel ship
intent on some raid up the Bay, and I looked up anxiously to see
that the flag should float out so conspicuously that she could not
help seeing it.

The next day our vessel ran alongside of the dock at the Naval Academy
at Annapolis, that institution now being used as a hospital for
paroled prisoners.

The musicians of the Post band came down with stretchers to carry the sick
to the Hospital, while those of us who were able to walk were ordered to
fall in and march up. The distance was but a few hundred yards. On
reaching the building we marched up on a little balcony, and as we did
so each one of us was seized by a hospital attendant, who, with the quick
dexterity attained by long practice, snatched every one of
our filthy, lousy rags off in the twinkling of an eye, and flung them
over the railing to the ground, where a man loaded them into a wagon
with a pitchfork.

With them went our faithful little black can, our hoop-iron spoon,
and our chessboard and men.

Thus entirely denuded, each boy was given a shove which sent him into
a little room, where a barber pressed him down upon a stool, and
almost before he understood what was being done, had his hair and
beard cut off as close as shears would do it.

Another tap on the back sent the shorn lamb into a room furnished with
great tubs of water and with about six inches of soap suds on the
zinc-covered floor.

In another minute two men with sponges had removed every trace of
prison grime from his body, and passed him on to two more men, who
wiped him dry, and moved him on to where a man handed him a new
shirt, a pair of drawers, pair of socks, pair of pantaloons, pair
of slippers, and a hospital gown, and motioned him to go on into
the large room, and array himself in his new garments.

Like everything else about the Hospital this performance was reduced
to a perfect system. Not a word was spoken by anybody, not a moment's
time lost, and it seemed to me that it was not ten minutes after
I marched up on the balcony, covered with dirt, rags, vermin, and a
matted shock of hair, until I marched out of the room, clean and well
clothed. Now I began to feel as if I was really a man again.

The next thing done was to register our names, rank, regiment, when and
where captured, when and where released. After this we were shown to
our rooms. And such rooms as they were. All the old maids in the
country could not have improved their spick-span neatness.

The floors were as white as pine plank could be scoured; the sheets
and bedding as clean as cotton and linen and woolen could be washed.
Nothing in any home in the land was any more daintily, wholesomely,
unqualifiedly clean than were these little chambers, each containing
two beds, one for each man assigned to their occupancy.

Andrews doubted if we could stand all this radical change in our
habits.

He feared that it was rushing things too fast.

We might have had our hair cut one week, and taken a bath all over
a week later, and so progress down to sleeping between white sheets
in the course of six months, but to do it all in one day seemed
like tempting fate.

Every turn showed us some new feature of the marvelous order of
this wonderful institution.

Shortly after we were sent to our rooms, a Surgeon entered with a
Clerk.

After answering the usual questions as to name, rank, company and
regiment, the Surgeon examined our tongues, eyes, limbs and general
appearance, and communicated his conclusions to the Clerk, who
filled out a blank card.

This card was stuck into a little tin holder at the head of my bed.

Andrews's card was the same, except the name. The Surgeon was followed
by a Sergeant, who was Chief of the Dining-Room, and the Clerk, who made
a minute of the diet ordered for us, and moved off. Andrews and I immediately
became very solicitous to know what species of diet No. 1 was. After the
seasickness left us our appetites became as ravenous as a buzz-saw,
and unless Diet No. 1 was more than No. 1 in name, it would not
fill the bill.

We had not long to remain in suspense, for soon another non-commissioned
officer passed through at the head of a train of attendants, bearing
trays.

Consulting the list in his hand, he said to one of his followers, "Two
No. 1's," and that satellite set down two large plates, upon each
of which were a cup of coffee, a shred of meat, two boiled eggs and
a couple of rolls.

"Well," said Andrews, as the procession moved away, "I want to know
where this thing's going to stop.

I am trying hard to get used to wearing a shirt without any lice
in it, and to sitting down on a chair, and to sleeping in a clean
bed, but when it comes to having my meals sent to my room, I'm
afraid I'll degenerate into a pampered child of luxury.

They are really piling it on too strong.

Let us see, Mc.; how long's it been since we were sitting on the
sand there in Florence, boiling our pint of meal in that old can?"
"It seems many years, Lale," I said; "but for heaven's sake let us
try to forget it as soon as possible.

We will always remember too much of it."

And we did try hard to make the miserable recollections fade out of our
minds.

When we were stripped on the balcony we threw away every visible
token that could remind us of the hateful experience we had passed
through.

We did not retain a scrap of paper or a relic to recall the unhappy past.
We loathed everything connected with it.

The days that followed were very happy ones. The Paymaster came around
and paid us each two months' pay and twenty-five cents a day "ration
money" for every day we had been in prison.

This gave Andrews and I about one hundred and sixty-five dollars
apiece--an abundance of spending money. Uncle Sam was very kind and
considerate to his soldier nephews, and the Hospital authorities
neglected nothing that would add to our comfort.

The superbly-kept grounds of the Naval Academy were renewing the freshness
of their loveliness under the tender wooing of the advancing Spring,
and every step one sauntered through them was a new delight. A
magnificent band gave us sweet music morning and evening.

Every dispatch from the South told of the victorious progress of
our arms, and the rapid approach of the close of the struggle.

All we had to do was to enjoy the goods the gods were showering upon us,
and we did so with appreciative, thankful hearts.

After awhile all able to travel were given furloughs of thirty days
to visit their homes, with instructions to report at the expiration
of their leaves of absence to the camps of rendezvous nearest their
homes, and we separated, nearly every man going in a different
direction.

CHAPTER LXXXI.

CAPTAIN WIRZ THE ONLY ONE OF THE PRISON-KEEPERS PUNISHED--HIS ARREST,
TRIAL AND EXECUTION.

Of all those more or less concerned in the barbarities practiced upon our
prisoners, but one--Captain Henry Wirz--was punished.

The Turners, at Richmond; Lieutenant Boisseux, of Belle Isle; Major
Gee, of Salisbury; Colonel Iverson and Lieutenant Barrett, of Florence;
and the many brutal miscreants about Andersonville, escaped scot free.
What became of them no one knows; they were never heard of after the
close of the war.

They had sense enough to retire into obscurity, and stay there, and this
saved their lives, for each one of them had made deadly enemies
among those whom they had maltreated, who, had they known where
they were, would have walked every step of the way thither to kill
them.

       When the Confederacy went to pieces in April, 1865, Wirz was still
at Andersonville.

General Wilson, commanding our cavalry forces, and who had established
his headquarters at Macon, Ga., learned of this, and sent one of his
staff--Captain H. E. Noyes, of the Fourth Regular Cavalry --with a
squad. of men, to arrest him.

This was done on the 7th of May.
Wirz protested against his arrest, claiming that he was protected by the
terms of Johnson's surrender, and, addressed the following letter
to General Wilson:

ANDERSONVILLE, GA., May 7, 1865.

GENERAL:--It is with great reluctance that I address you these lines,
being fully aware how little time is left you to attend to such
matters as I now have the honor to lay before you, and if I could see
any other way to accomplish my object I would not intrude upon you. I
am a native of Switzerland, and was before the war a citizen of Louisiana,
and by profession a physician. Like hundreds and thousands of others, I
was carried away by the maelstrom of excitement and joined the
Southern army.

I was very severely wounded at the battle of "Seven Pines," near
Richmond, Va., and have nearly lost the use of my right arm.

Unfit for field duty, I was ordered to report to Brevet Major General
John H.

Winder, in charge of the Federal prisoners of war, who ordered me to take
charge of a prison in Tuscaloosa, Ala.

My health failing me, I applied for a furlough and went to Europe, from
whence I returned in February, 1864.

I was then ordered to report to the commandant of the military
prison at Andersonville, Ga., who assigned me to the command of the
interior of the prison.

The duties I had to perform were arduous and unpleasant, and I am
satisfied that no man can or will justly blame me for things that
happened here, and which were beyond my power to control.

I do not think that I ought to be held responsible for the shortness of
rations, for the overcrowded state of the prison, (which was of
itself a prolific source of fearful mortality), for the inadequate
supply of clothing, want of shelter, etc., etc.

Still I now bear the odium, and men who were prisoners have seemed
disposed to wreak their vengeance upon me for what they have
suffered--I, who was only the medium, or, I may better say, the
tool in the hands of my superiors.

This is my condition.

I am a man with a family. I lost all my property when the Federal army
besieged Vicksburg. I have no money at present to go to any place,
and, even if I had, I know of no place where I can go.

My life is in danger, and I most respectfully ask of you help and relief.

It extended well over the hedge, and
would form a perfectly secure bridge. By creeping a few feet along it,
he would be able to drop down on the other side of the hedge. Finding
the main trunk, he tested his weight on a smaller bough, and swung
himself up into the tree.

A few minutes later he stood within the barrier. The window was some
twelve or fifteen feet above him. But the walls were thickly clad with
ivy, and ivy is an excellent ladder. Carefully he began to climb.

He reached the window, found himself a secure footing, and peered round
the edge of the blind. But the light was so poor, and the panes were so
dirty, on both sides, that had there been anything to see he could have
been very little the wiser. As it was, the small area of the room into
which he could dimly peer seemed to be carpetless and unfurnished. There
was no movement, no sound. The light itself apparently came from the
further end of the room, from the level of a table. He clung on,
undecided how to proceed. It appeared that the only thing to do was to
wait and listen for some indication of the purpose of the dismal
illumination.

He looked at his watch. It was ten-thirty. After a wait of what seemed
at least half an hour, he looked again. Ten minutes only had passed. No
discernible movement had taken place in the room. Yet he felt perfectly,
and very unpleasantly, certain that it was occupied--that something was
proceeding within it which, had the blind not intervened, would have
revealed the secret of the house. Of what it might be he could form no
idea--but, for the first time in his life, he was experiencing, in his
mental tenseness and the sinister silence of the surroundings, that
sensation which attests a proximity to evil. He was daunted. Fear was a
condition to which he was a stranger, but a vivid nervousness was
beginning to seize upon him. A sense of personal danger, an element
which, so far, he had scarcely considered, was attacking him, and
gaining ground. The perspiration was standing out on his face. He found
that his hands were cold and wet. The pulses of his body were throbbing;
he felt his strength growing less. Muttering a curse, he braced himself
with a strong effort. He was accustomed to consider his nerves
impregnable. Many times in his life he had known himself to be in far
greater danger than he could attribute to the present situation, and
such weakness had never assailed him. On four occasions he had been
aware that his life was hanging by a thread, and had gloried in his own
coolness. And now ... without a doubt the Crooked House was evil.

Still he waited. Another twenty minutes slowly passed.

He started. His hands closed tightly on the trunk of the ivy to which he
was clinging. The door of the room had been closed with a slam. He could
hear heavy footsteps on the uncarpeted floor. A shadow blotted out the
light.

A moment later, a voice--a man's voice, horribly strained and
unnatural--rose in a shout of fury.

"Damn you!" it screamed. "Look at your work! Look at it again! Open your
rotten eyes and look! Look! Look!"

Tranter was so startled that he almost lost his footing on the ivy.
There was no mistaking the voice--it was the scream of madness. He
listened for an answer, but there was no sound in response. Then the
same voice laughed--a laugh of awful bitterness.

"Are you satisfied? The thing is creeping on. I am getting nearer to
you hour by hour. I am more like you to-night. One more grain went
yesterday--another to-day. Another will go to-morrow...." Again the
voice rose to a shriek of rage and hatred. "Oh, God! There is no hope!
No hope! Only on--and on--to that!"

The words trailed off into a sob of agony. Still Tranter could hear no
reply.

Silence followed. The shadow again blotted out the light; then sprang
aside, and the voice burst out into a fresh paroxysm of madness, yelling
a stream of curses at the object of its fury. The madman's frenzy was
utterly revolting to listen to, but Tranter searched it closely for some
clue to the identity of the person, or thing, to whom it was addressed.
The voice rose again to a shriek; then subsided as before into a feeble
wail of misery.

"Oh God!" it moaned--"is there no way ... no way? No road but that road?
No end but that end? Oh God, have mercy ... have mercy...."

It was a cry of unspeakable anguish--the prayer of a soul in torment. It
seemed to Tranter that the speaker had thrown himself down, and was
beating the floor with his hands.

There was silence again. Then, for the first time, Tranter became aware
of another presence in the room. Though he could neither see nor hear
anything, he was conscious of a new, indefinable movement. For a moment
horror almost overcame him. He trembled. His nerves failed. The support
of the ivy seemed to be giving way under him. He clutched at the
framework of the window itself.

The shadow of a figure leapt up from the floor and bounded to the
window. The blind was wrenched aside, the window thrown open, and before
Tranter had time to recover himself or attempt to escape, the livid,
distorted face of George Copplestone was almost touching his own.

A hand closed on his throat in a murderous grip, another seized his
wrist. In spite of his frantic struggles, he was dragged with superhuman
strength through the window into the room.


CHAPTER XXIII

A DUEL


On the afternoon of the same day, an hour after the departure of
Inspector Fay, Mrs. Astley-Rolfe had sped herself to Richmond, in a
luxurious motor car, which was her's through the instrumentality of Mr.
Gluckstein.

She had found the house of George Copplestone plunged into the darkness
of a house of mourning. Every blind was drawn. Every particle of color
had been removed or draped. Black reigned supreme.

Copplestone was not pleased to see her, and made no attempt to assume
the contrary. He was sitting in his library, moody and melancholy, still
in the half-dazed condition into which the death of Christine Manderson
had cast him. His face was drawn, haggard, and sickly; his eyes were
bloodshot. He looked up at her with a forbidding frown, and did not
move from his chair.

"Well?" he said curtly.

She waved a hand round the black room.

"Isn't this ... a trifle theatrical?" she asked coolly.

He said nothing. She sat down opposite to him uninvited. She was
perfectly self-possessed.

"Inspector Fay was kind enough to call on me this morning," she remarked
pleasantly.

Again there was no reply.

"He may not be an example of dagger-like intelligence," she continued,
looking at him steadily--"but he is just a little too sharp to play
with."

He scowled at her.

"Have you come to tell me that?" he asked rudely.

"That--and other things," she returned unruffled.

"I don't want to hear them," he retorted.

"They concern you," she said--"rather closely."

"I don't want to hear them," he repeated.

Her lips tightened.

"It is scarcely pleasant to be such an obviously unwelcome visitor," she
said evenly. "But I am afraid you must listen."

"I am not in the humor to talk to you," he declared roughly. "I don't
want to talk to any one. I want to be left alone. Isn't it enough to be
pestered by the police and the papers, and all the damnable business for
the inquest? Don't you see that my house is in mourning? Can't you let
me be--even for a few days?"

"If I had let you be," she replied easily, "Inspector Fay would probably
be here in my place--with much less pleasant intentions."

His glance sharpened.

"What do you mean?" he growled.

"You were not wise," she proceeded tranquilly, "to treat his mental
capabilities with quite so much contempt. They are possibly not
startlingly brilliant, and he is perfectly easy to deceive. But even an
official detective can see through a clumsy lie."

Uneasiness flashed across his face. She smiled slightly.

"And I am afraid, my friend, that you are a clumsy liar."

"I don't know what you are talking about," he snapped.

"Come," she said quietly--"however freely we may trifle with the very
much overrated Arm of the Law, at least let us be honest with each
other. For some reason or other, you did not tell Inspector Fay the
truth."

He sat upright with a jerk, flamed with passion.

"What the devil is it to do with you?" he demanded fiercely.

"I will tell you in a moment," she returned smoothly. "When you
accounted for your time to the inspector, you told him that you went
into the house to refill your cigarette case?"

His lethargy had disappeared. He leant forward, staring at her, his
hands clutching the arms of his chair.

"But, unfortunately, you did not take the elementary precaution of
having a full case to support the story. In nine times out of ten you
would have got away with it. This was the tenth."

There was silence for a moment. She sat in an easy attitude, meeting his
gaze with complete confidence. No trace of his previous dullness
remained. He was alert and taut.

She went on, with delightful smoothness.

"With an unpardonable lack of respect for the statement of a gentleman,
it occurred to the inspector to test the truth of that account. He did
not want to smoke--but he asked you for a cigarette. It was a gentle
trap. There were only two in your case."

He ground out an oath under his breath.

"Obviously you had not gone into the house to refill your case. Perhaps
you went in for some other reason. Perhaps you didn't go in at all.
Anyway, you lied--and when people deliberately lie in such serious cases
as these, it may safely be imagined that they have some object to serve
in doing so. The inspector was concerned to discover what your object
was. So he came to me."

"To you...." he muttered.

"I told you," she returned, "that he is a little too sharp to play
with--clumsily. He suspected, from what had been told him, that we might
have had a stormy scene together, and had wished to keep it to
ourselves. He was quite ready to believe that the time you had failed so
lamentably to account for had really been passed with me in '_une petite
scène de jalousie_.' Fortunately, I had given him a true account of
myself, which was that I had been alone. So after the necessary
hesitation, and with just the right amount of annoyance, I was able to
confess that we had both lied, and that we had in fact been
together--and he went away satisfied. I am a better liar than you."

She regarded him serenely. His expression was ugly. There was that in
the look of him that might have daunted any woman, but Phyllis
Astley-Rolfe had lived chiefly by her wits for a sufficient time to be
quite impervious where another would have been silenced. She was as
completely without fear as she was without scruple. Her objects were
objects to be gained, by the most convenient and speedy means, and
quite irrespective of considerations which might have withheld another
from attempting to fulfill them. In furtherance of her present object,
she gave Copplestone look for look.

"I return good for evil," she said. "It is not a habit of mine. It is
really quite contrary to my usual practice. I told a lie to save you
from further suspicion. Considering the circumstances, you must admit
that it was exceedingly generous of me. And I expect you to be
grateful."

Anything but an expression of gratitude confronted her. He remained
silent, making a strong effort to mask his agitation. But his fingers
twitched spasmodically, and there was unmistakable fear in his eyes. She
watched him intently, losing no point of the effect she had created.

"Well...?" she said steadily.

There was no answer. She bent towards him.

"I said you were with me. You were not with me. Where were you?"

The man breathed heavily, his baleful gaze fixed on her. She met it
with unassailable composure.

"Listen," she said slowly--"there are strange things in this house. I
know it. I've known it for some time. Things that the light of day never
shines on. What are they?"

He sprang up, and stood over her with clenched hands, his face torn with
fury.

"Damn you!" he cried hoarsely. "What is my house, or what happens in it,
to you?"

"Sit down," she said firmly. "You are not frightening me. To threaten a
woman is merely to increase her tenacity, and mine requires no
fortification. Please move away from me."

He obeyed, muttering. Her calmness disarmed him.

"I am not sure," she continued, "that I wanted you to answer my
question--anyway at present. Perhaps your secrets might be too much,
even for my conscience--and that is saying a great deal."

He had resumed his chair. There was a moment's pause.

"You were foolish to mock me," she went on.

"Mockery is the one thing a woman cannot accept, or forgive. She can
stand any amount of ill-treatment and cruelty, in a sufficient cause.
But she cannot be mocked in any cause whatever. You made me certain
promises, which honor bound you to fulfil--and then flung your
renunciation of them in my face, before strangers who understood. It was
a very mean and low-down thing to do."

A faint, sneering smile passed over his face. Her voice hardened.

"I am not a woman to defy--and I am still less a woman to mock. You are
going to keep your promises."

"I'll see you in hell first!" he retorted brutally.

She laughed. "You will not see me in hell first," she said calmly. "You
may quite possibly see me in hell after--because if there is a hell we
shall certainly meet there. But in the meantime--you are going to redeem
your word."

He made a slow gesture round the black room.

"You come to me now ... within a few hours...."

"Why not?" she returned hardly.

"Almost before her body is cold...."

She shrugged her shoulders.

"Christine Manderson was an incident," she said indifferently. "A
disagreeable episode. She merely infatuated you, as she might have
infatuated any man. She has passed."

"Passed," he muttered. "Passed...."

"I do not profess to equal her in appearance," she admitted. "But I am
not repulsive. I am considered to be extremely good-looking, and I am
much more interesting to talk to than she was. Also, I am well-bred.
Most people would find the balance in my favor. But, even if you do not,
the difference can only be very small. You will have to make the best of
it."

"Or else?" he snarled.

"Or else, if you prefer it, I will exchange your promises for the
secrets of this house--with no undertaking to keep them."

He sat biting his nails in the suppression of his rage. She languidly
corrected the folds of her dress, leant back in a charming attitude,
and waited with unassailable self-possession. The silence was long.

"How much do you want?" he demanded, at last.

"I am not asking you for money," she replied coldly.

"I am offering it unasked," he retorted. "How much do you want?"

"If you had offered to buy back your promises a week ago," she said, "I
might have sold them to you. I do not know that I particularly looked
forward to their fulfilment. But you flaunted another woman in my face."

"Put it all in the bill," he said coarsely.

"Therefore I will give you nothing back. You shall have only your bond."

"Why waste your breath on heroics to me?" he sneered. "You would sell
your soul for money. You have often boasted it."

"I would sell my soul for money any day," she agreed frankly--"but not
my pride. I am too much of a sinner already to scruple over the disposal
of my soul. But it would not profit me to gain the whole world, and lose
my pride."

"Bosh!" he said contemptuously. "Pride pays no bills--and you owe too
many to let it deprive you of the pleasure of getting rid of a few."

"That is as it may be," she returned. "I have told you the only exchange
I will make."

He sprang up again. This time his anger was scornful.

"Fool!" he cried harshly. "Take your warning! Do you think my
secrets--if I have any--are for you? Or that I, myself, am for you? Why
do you try to force yourself on to dangerous ground? There are things in
the world into which it is not good to pry."

"Plenty," she said, unmoved.

"I may have made you careless promises," he admitted. --Follow the
grain.

Four methods of procedure: 1.

The method of disuse; 2. The method of rewards and punishment; 3.

The method of substitution; 4. The method of stimulation and sublimation.

Having listed the native tendencies generally, we might well now consider
them as they manifest themselves at the various stages of an
individual's development.

As already indicated, they constitute his birthright as a human being,
though most of them are present in the early years of his life only in
potentiality.

Psychologists of recent years have made extensive observations as to
what instincts are most prominent at given periods.

Teachers are referred particularly to the volumes of Kirkpatrick, Harrison,
and Norsworthy and Whitley. In this latter book, pages 286, 287, and
298-302, will be found an interesting tabulation of characteristics
at the age of five and at eleven.

For the years of adolescence Professor Beeley, in his course at the
Brigham Young Summer School, in the Psychology of Adolescence, worked out
very fully the characteristics unique in this period, though many of
them, of course, are present at other stages:
CHARACTERISTICS UNIQUE IN THE ADOLESCENT PERIOD 
1.

Maturing of the sex instincts.
2. Rapid limb growth.
3. Over-awkwardness.

4. Visceral organs develop rapidly (heart, liver, lungs, genital
organs.) 5.

Change in physical proportions; features take on definite
characteristics.
6.

Brain structure has matured.

7. Self-awareness.
8. Personal pride and desire for social approval.
9. Egotism.
10.

Unstable, "hair-trigger," conflicting emotions.
11.

Altruism, sincere interest in the well-being of others.

12.

Religious and moral awakening.
13. New attitude.
14. Aesthetic awakening.
15. Puzzle to everybody.
16. Desire to abandon conventionalities, struggle for self-assertion.

17. Career motive.
18. Period of "palling" and mating; clique and "gang" spirit.

19. Positiveness,--affirmation, denial.
20. Inordinate desire for excessive amusement.
21. Evidence of hereditary influences.
22. "Hero worship," castle building.
23. "Wanderlust." 24. Hyper-suggestibility.
25. Ideals; ambitions.

27. Yearning for adult responsibility.

Having listed these tendencies we still face the question, "What shall
we do with them? What is their significance in teaching?"
It is perfectly clear, in the first place, that we ought not to
ignore them.

None of them is wholly useless, and few of them can safely be developed
just as they first manifest themselves.

They call for training and direction.

"Some instincts are to be cherished almost as they are; some
rooted out by withholding stimuli, or by making their exercise result
in pain or discomfort, or by substituting desirable habits in their
place; most of the instincts should be modified and redirected."

--(_Thorndike._)
Our concern as teachers ought to be that in our work with boys and
girls, men and women, we are aware of these natural tendencies
that we may work with them rather than contrary to them--that we
may "follow the grain" of human nature.

Since these tendencies are the result of responses to stimuli they
may be modified by attention either to the stimuli or to the reaction
that attends the stimulation.

Four methods call for our consideration:

1. The method of disuse.
2.

The method of rewards and punishments.

3. The method of substitution.

4. The method of stimulation and sublimation.

No one of these methods can be said always to be best.

The nature of the person in question, his previous experience and
training, together with the circumstances attending a given situation,
all are factors which determine how we should proceed.

The vital point is, that both as parents and teachers we should
guard against falling into the rut of applying the same treatment
to all cases regardless of their nature.

1.

THE METHOD OF DISUSE
This method is largely negative.

It aims to safeguard an individual against ills by withholding
stimuli.

The mother aims to keep scissors out of reach and sight of the baby
that it may not be lured into danger.

Some parents, upon discerning that the pugnacious instinct is
manifesting itself vigorously in their boy, isolate him from other
boys--keep him by himself through a period of a year or more that
the tendency may not be accentuated.

Other parents, observing their daughter's inclination to be frivolous,
or seeing the instinct of sex begin to manifest itself in her interest
in young men, send her away to a girl's school--a sort of intellectual
nunnery.

Frequently teachers follow this method in the conduct of their
classes.
The tendency to self-assertion and verbal combat, natural to youth,
is smothered by an unwillingness on the part of the teacher to indulge
questions and debate or by a marked inclination to do all the talking.

It is clear that this method of disuse has its place in the training
of children, though grave dangers attend its too frequent
indulgence.

Children and others of immature judgment need the protection of withheld
stimuli. But clearly this is not a method to be recommended for general
application. The boy who is never allowed to quarrel or fight may very
possibly grow up to be a man afraid to meet the battles of life; the
girl, if her natural emotions are checked, may lose those very
qualities that make for the highest type of womanhood and motherhood.
Fortunately, in these days, it is pretty nearly impossible to
bring boys and girls up in "glass houses." Doubly fortunate, for they are
made happy in their bringing up and are fitted for a world not
particularly devoted to the fondling of humankind.

2. THE METHOD OF REWARDS AND PUNISHMENTS
This method is clearly illustrated in the training of "trick"
animals.

These creatures through innumerable repetitions are made to do
phenomenal "stunts."

In the training for every successful "try" they are rewarded with a cube
of sugar, a piece of candy, or some other pleasure-producing article;
for every miss they are punished--made to suffer pain or discomfort.
This same sort of procedure carries over into human affairs. Witness
the hickory stick and the ruler, or count the nickels and caresses.
Ridicule before the class, and praise for commendable behavior or
performance, are typical of this same method.

If it is followed, and it clearly has a place in the training of
children, care should be exercised to see that in the child's mind
in any case there is clear connection between what he has done and
the treatment that he receives.

With some parents it fairly seems as if their one remedy for all offenses
is a tingling in the epidermis--it is equally clear that with some
teachers their one weapon is sarcasm.

All too frequently these measures grow out of unsettled nerves or
stirred up passions, on the part of the parent or teacher, and have
really but little connection--remote at best--with the offense in
question.

There may be an abuse in the matter of rewards, too, of course, but
as a rule few classes suffer from too much appreciation.

The real art of discipline lies in making the reward or the punishment
naturally grow out of the conduct indulged in.

3.

THE METHOD OF SUBSTITUTION
Because of the fact that some stimuli inevitably lead to discomfort and
disaster--that some conduct is bad--there is need of a method of
substitution. The child's mind needs to be led from the contemplation
of an undesirable course of action to something quite different. Frequently
a child cannot be satisfied with a mere denial, and circumstances
may not be favorable to punishment--yet the correction must be made.
Substitution is the avenue of escape. A striking illustration in point
occurred recently in a cafe in Montana. A trio of foreigners, father,
mother, and two-year-old son, came in and sat down at one of the
tables.

Soon after the parents began to eat, the child caught sight of a little
silver pitcher for which he began to beg.

Whining and crying, mixed in with the begging, created a good bit
of disturbance.

The only attempted solution on the part of the parents was a series
of: "Don't do that!"

"No! no!" "Keep quiet, Marti!"

a continued focusing of the child's attention on what he ought not
to do, and an added note to the disturbance.

Then an American across the aisle having surveyed the situation took out
of his pocket a folder full of brightly colored views. The charm worked
beautifully--the meal went on free from disturbance--and the child was
happy.

This method involves a good bit of resourcefulness, calling at times
for what seems an impossible amount of ingenuity.

As someone has said, "It is beating the other fellow to it." It merits the
consideration of those who have to handle boys and girls who are
regularly up to "stunts." 

4.

THE METHOD OF STIMULATION AND SUBLIMATION
This method is rather closely akin to that of substitution, with
the exception that it capitalizes on tendencies already in operation
and raises them to a higher level.

Stimulation, of course, merely means the bringing of children into
contact with desirable stimuli on every possible occasion; in fact,
it involves the making of favorable occasions.

Sublimation involves building upon native tendencies to an elevated
realization.

Educationally this method is most full of promise.

It is seen in kindergarten methods when a child is led from mere
meaningless playing with toys to constructive manipulation of blocks,
tools, etc.

It is seen admirably in football where the pugnacious tendency of boys
is capitalized on to build manliness in struggle and to develop a spirit
of fair play.

It is seen in the fostering of a girl's fondness for dolls, so that
it may crystallize into the devotion of motherhood.

It is seen when a boys' man leads a "gang" of boys into an association
for social betterment. It is seen when a teacher works upon the instinct
to collect and hoard, elevating it into a desire for the acquisition
of knowledge and the finer things of life.

Whatever our method, let us give due consideration to the natural
inclinations and aptitudes of boys and girls--let us help them to
achieve fully their own potentialities.

* * * * *
QUESTIONS AND SUGGESTIONS--CHAPTER VIII 
1.

Point out the essential differences between boys and girls at the age
of six and seven and those of sixteen and seventeen.

2. Discuss the significance of the following phrase: "The grain in
human nature."
3. How can the hunting instinct be appealed to in religious stimulation?

4. Of what significance is the "gang spirit" to teachers of
adolescents?

5. How can rivalry be made an asset in teaching?

6. How can the fighting instinct in children best be directed?

7. Why is biography so valuable in material for teaching?

8.

Why is it so essential that we put responsibility upon boys and girls?
How should this fact affect teaching?

9.

What are the dangers that attend an attempt to keep children quiet
for any length of time?

HELPFUL REFERENCES
Those listed in Chapter VII.

CHAPTER IX

INDIVIDUAL DIFFERENCES 
OUTLINE--CHAPTER IX
Fundamental significance of individual differences.

--Typical illustration.--The truth illustrated physically; in range of
voice, in speed, in mental capabilities.--The same truth applied
spiritually.--Some cases in point.

Everybody is like everybody else in this--that everybody is different
from everybody else.

Having discussed how all men enjoy a common heritage by way of
native endowments, let us now turn to a consideration of how men
differ.

Two of the terms most frequently met in recent educational publications
are statistical methods and individual differences. There is nothing
particularly new in this latter term--it merely represents a new
emphasis being given to the old idea that no two of us are alike.

Every parent is aware of the very marked differences in his children.
Even twins differ in disposition and mental capabilities. In fact, one
of the difficulties that attaches to parenthood is just this problem
of making provision in one household for such various personalities.

A member of the stake presidency in one of the stakes in southern Utah,
in discussing this matter a short time ago, remarked that in his family
of four boys one very definitely had decided to become a farmer
and was already busy at getting acquainted with the details of the work;
a second boy was devoted to music and voiced a very vigorous protest
against farming; the third son was so bashful and reticent that he
hadn't given expression to any notion of preference; the fourth, a
happy-go-lucky sort of chap, free and noisy in his cutting up about
the place, wasn't worrying about what he was to do in life--he
just didn't want anything to do with strenuous effort.

"How can I drive a four-horse team such as that?"

was the interesting query of this father.

Practically every family presents this variety of attitude and practically
every parent is trying to work out a solution to the problem, so
there is nothing startling about the term individual differences.

Educators have just given the matter more careful and scholarly
attention of recent years.

If the matter of differences in children constitutes a problem of
concern in a family of from two to ten children, how much greater
must that problem be in a class from thirty to fifty with approximately
as many families represented.

The problem has led to some very interesting investigations--investigations
so simple that they can be carried on by anyone interested.

For instance, if we could line up all the men in Salt Lake City
according to size we should find at one end of the line a few
exceptionally tall men, likely from six feet to six feet six inches
in height.

At the other end of the line would be a few exceptionally small
men--undersized men from three feet eight or ten inches to four
feet six inches.

In between these two types would come in graduated order all sorts
of men with a decidedly large number standing about five feet six
or eight inches.

This latter height we call the average.

Practically we see the significance of these differences. No
manufacturer thinks of making one size of overall in the hope that
it will fit each of these men.

He adapts his garment to their size, and he knows approximately how
many of each size will be called for in the course of ordinary business.

If these same men could be taken one by one into a music studio and have
their voices tested for range, the same interesting variations would
be found. There would be a few very high tenors, a few exceptionally
low bassos, and a crowd with medium range with fillers-in all along
the line.

If we were interested in carrying the experiment still further we
might apply the speed test.

In a 100-yard dash a few men would be found to be particularly fast,
a few others would trail away behind at a snail's pace, while the big
crowd of men would make the distance in "average time."
Of course, it would be foolish to attempt to make tenors of all these
men--equally foolish to try to make speeders of them all. In these
practical matters we appreciate the wisdom of letting each man fit
into that niche for which he is qualified.

Nor are these differences confined to the field of physical
characteristics and achievements.

Tests by the hundred have demonstrated beyond all question that they hold
equally well of mental capabilities.
In the past children have gone to school at the age of six.

They have remained there because they were six. At seven they were in
grade two, and so on up through the grades of our public schools. Tests
and measurements now, however, are showing that such a procedure works
both a hardship and an injustice on the pupils. Some boys at six are
found as capable of doing work in grade two as other boys at eight.
Some boys and girls at six are found wholly incapable of doing what is
required in grade one. One of the most promising prospects ahead
educationally is that we shall be able to find out just the capacity
of a child regardless of his age, and fit him into what he can do
well, making provisions for his passing on as he shows capability for
higher work.
Not only has this matter of individual differences been found to apply
generally in the various grades of our schools--it has been found
to have significant bearing upon achievements in particular subjects.

For all too long a time we have held a boy in grade four until he
mastered what we have called his grade four arithmetic, spelling,
geography, grammar, history, etc.

As a matter of fact, many a boy who is a fourth-grader in grammar may
be only a second-grader in arithmetic--a girl, for whom fourth
grade arithmetic is an impossibility, because of her special liking
for reading, may be seventh grade in her capacity in that subject.

In the specific subjects, individual differences have been found to
be most marked.

Surely it is unfair to ask a boy "born short" in history to keep
up to the pace of a comrade "born long" in that subject; so, too,
it is unfair to ask a girl "born long" in geography to hold back
to the pace of one "born short" in that subject.

The results of these observations are leading to developments that
are full of promise for the educational interests of the future.

In order that we may more fully appreciate the reality of these
observations let us set down the concrete results of a few
experiments.

The first three tests are quoted from Thorndike:
In a test in addition, all pupils being allowed the same time,
1 pupil did 3 examples correctly 2 pupils did 4 examples correctly
1 pupil did 5 examples correctly 5 pupils did 6 examples correctly
2 pupils did 7 examples correctly 4 pupils did 8 examples correctly
6 pupils did 9 examples correctly 14 pupils did 10 examples correctly
8 pupils did 11 examples correctly 7 pupils did 12 examples correctly
8 pupils did 13 examples correctly 5 pupils did 14 examples correctly
5 pupils did 15 examples correctly 6 pupils did 16 examples correctly
1 pupil did 17 examples correctly 5 pupils did 18 examples correctly
1 pupil did 19 examples correctly 2 pupils did 20 examples correctly

The rapidity of movement of ten-year-old girls, as measured by the
number of crosses made in a fixed time:
6 or 7 by 1 girl 8 or 9 by 0 girl 10 or 11 by 4 girls 12 or 13 by
3 girls 14 or 15 by 21 girls 16 or 17 by 29 girls 18 or 19 by 33
girls 20 or 21 by 13 girls 22 or 23 by 15 girls 24 or 25 by 11 girls
26 or 27 by 5 girls 28 or 29 by 2 girls 30 or 31 by 5 girls 32 or
33 by 3 girls 34 or 35 by 5 girls 36 or 37 by 0 girl 38 or 49 by 4
girls 40 or 41 by 1 girl
Two papers, A and B, written by members of the same grade and class
in a test in spelling:

A.

B.
greatful gratful elegant eleagent present present patience
paisionce succeed suckseed severe survere accident axadent sometimes
sometimes sensible sensible business biusness answer anser sweeping
sweping properly prooling improvement improvment fatiguing fegting
anxious anxchus appreciate apresheating assure ashure imagine
amagen praise prasy
In a test in spelling wherein fifty common words were dictated to
a class of twenty-eight pupils, the following results were obtained:
2 spelled correctly all 50 3 spelled correctly between 45 and 48 5
spelled correctly between 40 and 45 11 spelled correctly between
30 and 40 6 spelled correctly between 20 and 30 1 spelled correctly
between 15 and 20
And now the question--what has all this to do with the teaching of
religion?

You have always been so hard. Why have you never looked like that
before?"

She was silent. She bent her head, as if ashamed of betraying herself.

"Was all that hardness ... only a cloak ... to hide yourself?"

He seized her hand tightly.

"You fool! You fool!" he cried--"to make yourself hard and unfeeling and
unnatural--to try to stamp all the heart out of your life--to blaspheme
your sex. Don't you know that a hard woman is the most terrible thing in
the world? Don't you know that while men dare to think that they have
the image of God, it is women who can really have the heart of God? And
to think that all the time you have disguised yourself, you have been
capable of looking like that."

"I have been up against the world," she said. "I have never had enough
money to be soft-hearted. No woman with feeling can get five hundred
per cent. out of her income."

"What does it matter," he returned, "if she can get five hundred per
cent. out of life?"

He still held her hand, his eyes fixed longingly on her face.

"If only I were not mad," he said, with all his sadness--"now I know
that you are really a woman...."

"Let me go," she said brokenly, withdrawing her hand from his.

"Not yet," he returned, detaining her. "There is something more I want
to do." He paused. "My dear," he said softly, "an hour ago I would not
have married you even if I had been sane. Now I want to marry you
although I am mad. But, since that cannot be, there is something else."
He released her, and stood up. "I want you always to look like that," he
said. "I want you to forget that you have ever tried to disguise
yourself. I want to make it possible for you to go through the rest of
your life with your heart in its proper place."

He took his check book from his pocket.

"No, no," she said quickly--"not that."

"Please," he insisted.

"I would have taken it before," she said, forcing back her tears. "But
not now."

"You must," he declared. "My money is no use to me. I can't do anything
worth doing with it. With all my fantastic extravagancies, I only spend
a small part of my income. The rest has been accumulating for years. I
shall never use it, and when I die it will pass to some one I have never
seen. It is doing no good--and I want it to do some good. What better
thing could I do with it than give it ... to the woman I would marry if
I could?"

She sprang up.

"For God's sake," she cried, "don't say that! I can't bear it!"

He laid a hand again on her shoulder.

"Do you care?" he asked slowly. "I don't think you cared before. I
thought you were only sorry for me now. Do you really care?"

"I do care!" she cried recklessly. "I care--and care--and care. My God,
how I care!"

He turned his face upwards, and over it passed a dreadful, mocking
smile.

"O God of Mercy!" he muttered--"another torment!"

He drew away from her.

"I shall do this for you," he said firmly. "I intend to do this. And
then we must not see each other again. I hope that when you marry, as
you must, you will marry a good, clean man--a man who can stand out
among his fellow-creatures, and need not shrink away from them, as I
must. I want you to be very happy and bring happy children to the
world...." His voice shook. "And forget there are unfortunate people in
it ... who may only gaze hungrily over the gulf that they can never
cross."

He left her sobbing, and went to his writing table.

"No one will know," he said. "I will draw it to myself. The bank is
quite close here. I will walk there and cash it at once."

He wrote the check, and rose.

"Wait for me here," he said. "I shall only be a few minutes." And he
went out with the face of a stricken man.


CHAPTER XXVI

PROVIDING FOR THE WORST


Though Inspector Fay had disclosed no more than was necessary for the
purpose of the initial charge, the arrest of James Layton was popularly
considered to have solved the mystery of the murder of Christine
Manderson.

No one realized more fully than Layton himself the overwhelming strength
of the case against him. He was as good as condemned already. Beyond his
own assertion of innocence, he was utterly defenseless against a
sequence of evidence that might well have shattered the strongest reply.
And he was without any reply at all, except his own denial. He could
only admit the truth of the damning train of circumstances, in face of
which his mere word was hopelessly--and, he was compelled to
acknowledge, justly--inadequate. The secret of his identity--most
crushing fact of all--was lost. He was the Michael Cranbourne whom
Christine Manderson, then Thea Colville, had drawn on to ruin and
disgrace. He had threatened her, in the presence of witness, with just
such an end as she had met with. He had been seen lurking in the garden
at the time of the crime. He had been beside himself. And to all that he
had no more convincing answer than the plea of not guilty. He placed
himself, quite dispassionately, in the position of his own judge and
jury. There could be only one result.

The strange message of hope, brought to him by Jenny West, from a
mysterious foreigner who had declared knowledge of his innocence and of
half the truth, aroused his curiosity, if no more. That one person, at
all events, had discovered, and was apparently pursuing, an alternative
to his own guilt was interesting, if a slender encouragement to build
on. He was not disposed to cling to flimsy hopes. He accepted his
position with perfect calmness. Since the confession of his identity to
Inspector Fay a load seemed to have been lifted from his mind, and with
it had passed the revival of mad passion which the sight of Christine
Manderson's fatal beauty had aroused. He found himself able to dwell on
her memory--even to contemplate her death--with a cold detachment which
surprised himself. He no longer shrank from conjuring up her image--but
now it was a dead image from a dead world. And--not without surprise
also, and perhaps a certain satisfaction--he found himself looking
forward to a visit from Jenny West.

She came to him at the appointed time. She was very white. The deep
shadows of sleepless grief and anxiety were round her eyes--but in them
shone the fire of a dogged, dauntless courage. Her great untamed soul
was aflame with revolt against the implacable circumstances that had
placed the man whose name a thousand had blessed on the highroad to the
gallows. She threw herself against the wall of facts with all the force
of her primitive love. She was one of those whose trust rises to its
greatest heights when opposed to reason.

He greeted her kindly. He was cheerful and composed. He showed that he
was glad to see her.

"We shall save you, Jim!" she declared, straining back the tears that
sprang to her eyes at his kindness. "I know we shall! I know it!"

"God will save His workman," he returned quietly--"if it is His will."

He looked at her closely. And something very like affection came into
his face.

"You are pale," he said. "You are over strained. You haven't slept."

She bent her head, to hide her brimming eyes.

"My child...." he said gently.

"What does it matter," she sobbed, "if I haven't slept? How can I
sleep--when you are ... here?"

"Listen, my dear," he said--"we must face this thing squarely. It's no
use trying to shut our eyes to the truth, however unpleasant it may be.
As the case stands at present, no jury in the world could acquit me. I
have no reply to the charge, except to declare that I did not kill
Christine Manderson--and that will not help me. The evidence is more
than enough to satisfy any impartial, clear-thinking man or woman. It
would satisfy me. That I know myself to be innocent will not assist me
to establish my innocence. Thousands of things may happen in the
meantime--but I must prepare to suffer the penalty for a crime that I
did not commit."

"You shall not!" she cried passionately. "If there is justice in heaven
or earth, you shall not!"

"I do not cling to life," he returned. "It has very little to give me,
or to take away. Men may find me guilty--but I shall stand before God
innocent. It will not be the first time I have stood before God."

A spark of his old fanaticism flashed into his eyes for a moment, then
faded.

"I shall be ready," he said steadily, "for whatever He sends."

"Men shall not find you guilty," she declared. "There are three people
working for you. The truth will be discovered."

"Your mysterious Frenchman?" he smiled. "What has he done?"

"I don't know," she confessed. "He tells me nothing--except to keep on
promising that you will be saved. And that is enough for me."

A frown darkened Layton's face.

"I wish you would not put yourself so completely into the hands of a
stranger," he said doubtfully. "Who and what, is this man? And how does
he come to be mixed up in this affair?"

"I know nothing whatever about him," she replied. "But there is
something that makes me trust him. I believe he will keep his promise."

"I don't like it," he insisted.

"If I didn't help him," she said, "I could do nothing. And I should go
mad."

"What has he given you to do?" he asked.

"I promised not to tell any one," she hesitated.

He shrugged his shoulders.

"You had better tell me. You have no one else to protect you."

"It is something I can't understand," she said slowly. "This morning I
had to write out the names and addresses of all the Art and Picture
Dealers from the _Directory_, and this afternoon I am to go round in a
car to as many of them as I can, with a letter from the French Embassy,
to ask if any articles have ever been supplied to, or orders taken from,
a Miss Masters, of 35, De Vere Terrace, Streatham, and if so, what."

Layton stared at her in astonishment.

"What possible connection can that have with the case?" he exclaimed.

"I don't know," she said again. "I've tried to think."

"The French Embassy," he mused. "That is strange...."

He checked himself, and looked at his watch.

"You time is nearly up," he said. "Listen to me carefully. There is one
very important thing that I want you to understand. Whatever may develop
in the meantime, I intend to prepare for the worst."

He kept her silent with a firm gesture.

"My work must go on. No matter what happens to me, my work must go on.
And it must be carried on as I have begun it, by some one who has worked
with me, and understands my objects--by some one who is human, and
unlimited by sect or creed. I don't want to make people religious--it
would spoil most of them. I want to make them healthy and happy. I would
rather they were clean pagans than unclean Christians. No soul is saved
or lost because it happens to take a certain view of the Mysteries of
God. It is the bodies I care for--the bodies I want to build. Humanity
should be a song of thanksgiving, not a prayer for alleviation."

The fires kindled again. His face was lit up.

"You must continue my work. If I should have to leave it ... you will
find everything yours. There is over a million. Use it as I have taught
you. Use it to help children to grow into men and women, and men and
women to grow into old men and women. Use it to help human beings
against the cruelties they inflict on each other--and animals against
the cruelties inflicted on them. Promise me that if the worst happens,
you will go on where I leave off."

Tears blinded her. She could not speak.

"Promise," he insisted.

"I will," she sobbed. "I will go on--as long as I can live after you."

He stood still, looking at her fixedly. There was the dawn of an
awakening on his face.

"My God!" he whispered, "I was wrong. I do cling to life. I want to
live. O God, save me!"

And the girl uttered a great sigh of thankfulness, and fell fainting
against the wire partition that stood between them.


CHAPTER XXVII

THE DISAPPEARANCE OF TRANTER


At one o'clock on the following day, Monsieur Dupont sat in his room
waiting for Tranter. At half-past one he had become impatient. At two he
seized the telephone directory, and, a minute later, the instrument. At
two-thirty he obtained his number.

The answer to his first question stiffened him into an attitude of rigid
tensity.

"Mr. Tranter is not in, sir," a voice told him. "He has disappeared."

"Disappeared?" Monsieur Dupont echoed sharply.

"We do not know what has happened to him. He went out last night at nine
o'clock, and has not returned."

"Not returned...." the listener muttered.

"We are getting anxious," the voice went on. "He left orders for his
supper, and there is no doubt that he intended to return. We have
telephoned to the hospitals and the police stations, but nothing has
been heard of him. Do you happen to know where he was going?"

There was a moment's pause. Monsieur Dupont's hands were clenched so
tightly round the instrument that the veins stood out on them like
cords.

"Yes," he said slowly, "I know where he was going."

He rose quickly.

"I will find him," he promised and rang off.

He replaced the instrument, and stood still. For the first time since
his arrival in London fear found a place in the expression of his face.

"_Dieu_," he whispered--"that Crooked House...."

He seized his hat and stick, and hurried out to his car.

       *       *       *       *       *

Remarkable changes were in progress when he arrived at the Crooked
House. A small army of workmen swarmed over the whole place in a
condition of feverish energy. There were stacks of tools, dozens of
machines, and cartloads of material. At first sight it might have
appeared as if nothing less than the effects of an earthquake could have
been in process of repair--but, as Monsieur Dupont stood staring about
him in amazement, it became apparent that the men were engaged in
eliminating the crookedness of the garden, and must have been so engaged
from a very early hour. Many of the twisting paths had been shorn of
their high maze-like walls of hedge, and the paths themselves were in
varying stages of conversion or disappearance. Under rapid and ruthless
hands straightness was already appearing out of the confusion. Monsieur
Dupont looked positively frightened.

"_Mon Dieu_," he exclaimed aloud, "they are making it a human garden!"

The house itself presented a no less startling aspect. It was no longer
gloomy, deserted, and silent. It was teeming with life. Every window was
open, and from within came sounds of rapacious cleaning. A hundred
painters had commenced a vigorous assault upon the exterior, and
representatives of every branch of house decoration were attacking the
interior. It was a scene of resurrection.

Monsieur Dupont almost ran to the open front door. Copplestone's
manservant was at work in the hall, and came forward with a sphinx-like
expression.

"Mr. Copplestone?" said Monsieur Dupont.

"Mr. Copplestone is away, sir."

"Away...?"

"He left in the car early this morning, sir, without saying where he was
going or when he would be back."

Monsieur Dupont was plainly staggered.

"Was he alone?"

"I do not know, sir."

"You do not know?"

"I did not see him leave, sir. He gave me my instructions in the
library, and ordered me to remain there until he had gone."

Monsieur Dupont took a threatening step towards him.

"Where is Mr. Tranter?" he demanded, with sudden fierceness.

The man met his challenging gaze steadily.

"Mr. Tranter, sir?"

"Mr. Tranter came here last night--between ten and eleven o'clock."

"I think you must be mistaken, sir. If he had come here, I should have
seen him."

Monsieur Dupont clenched his fists.

"I am not mistaken! I say that he came here last night!"

"I did not see him, sir."

"Since then he has disappeared. He has not returned to his house, and
nothing has been heard of him. Where is he?"

"I know nothing of Mr. Tranter, sir."

"That is not true!" Monsieur Dupont almost shouted.

"Sir!"

"I say that is not true!"

The man drew himself up.

"It certainly is true, sir."

"It is not! Will you tell the truth to me--or to the police?"

"I have nothing to tell," the man insisted doggedly.

Monsieur Dupont appeared to be beside himself.

"_Dieu!_" he cried, "if any harm has come to Mr. Tranter, you shall pay
for it--all of you!"

The man shrugged his shoulders.

"I can only repeat, sir, that I have not seen Mr. Tranter, and that, so
far as I know, he has not been to this house. He is certainly not here
now. You are welcome to search every room for him if you like. Mr.
Copplestone left word that the house was to be open to any one who might
wish to go over it."

"He said that?" Monsieur Dupont exclaimed, his anger giving place to
astonishment.

"Yes, sir."

Monsieur Dupont turned away without another word, and walked slowly to
the gates. Reaching them, he stopped, and looked back.

"In the name of heaven," he muttered, "what happened in that house last
night?"

He went back to his car. Amazement and anxiety were blended on his face.
It was plain that his calculations had received an unexpected check, the
meaning of which he could not at present grasp. The sudden
transformation of the house and garden was a development that had not
entered into his scheme of procedure. It presented him with an entirely
new and unlooked-for problem. After a moment's indecision, he took out
his pocket-book, referred to an address, and gave it to his chauffeur.

During the return journey he sat with his face between his hands, buried
in thought. When the car stopped before a house in Grosvenor Gardens, he
lifted his head slowly and heavily, as if rousing himself from a stupor.

"Mrs. Astley-Rolfe, if you please," he said to the footman who answered
his summons.

"Mrs. Astley-Rolfe is not at home, sir."

"It is most important," said Monsieur Dupont. "I wished to speak to her
of a matter connected with Mr. George Copplestone."

"She went away early this morning, sir."

"Away?" Monsieur Dupont repeated.

"With Mr. Copplestone."

Monsieur Dupont started back.

"With Mr. Copplestone?"

"Yes, sir. Just before eight o'clock."

"With Mr. Copplestone...."

"He came in his car, sir, and insisted on Mrs. Astley-Rolfe getting up
to see him. She went away with him ten minutes afterwards, without
telling us where she was going or when to expect her back."

Monsieur Dupont's face had become blanker and blanker. He stared at the
man speechlessly then turned from the door, and gazed in a helpless
fashion up and down the street.

"_Mille diables!_" he murmured, "what does it mean...."

He got into his car again. He looked about him like a man dazed by a
heavy blow. Returning to the Savoy, he went up to his room.

There was a telegram on the table. He opened it, and read:

     "The name was George Copplestone Winslowe,
                                  LESSING."

Monsieur Dupont uttered an extraordinary sound. In a flash the gloom and
uncertainty that had held him gave place to a seething excitement.
Crushing the telegram into his pocket, he rushed from the room. Two
minutes later he was on his way to Scotland Yard.


CHAPTER XXVIII

IN PURSUIT


Inspector Fay was occupied with the arrangement of the evidence to be
presented at the inquest on the body of Christine Manderson. He disliked
interruptions when at work, but the appearance of Monsieur Dupont
banished his annoyance, and called forth a smile of complacent triumph.

"My friend," said Monsieur Dupont, "you know me well enough to be sure
that I would not mislead you?"

There was that in the look of him that caused the smile to fade from the
inspector's face.

"Of course," he replied, laying down his papers.

The nights were frequently so cold that ice a quarter of an inch
thick formed on the water.

The naked frames of starving men were poorly calculated to withstand
this frosty rigor, and thousands had their extremities so badly
frozen as to destroy the life in those parts, and induce a rotting
of the tissues by a dry gangrene.

The rotted flesh frequently remained in its place for a long time
--a loathsome but painless mass, that gradually sloughed off, leaving
the sinews that passed through it to stand out like shining, white
cords.

While this was in some respects less terrible than the hospital
gangrene at Andersonville, it was more generally diffused, and
dreadful to the last degree.

The Rebel Surgeons at Florence did not follow the habit of those at
Andersonville, and try to check the disease by wholesale amputation,
but simply let it run its course, and thousands finally carried
their putrefied limbs through our lines, when the Confederacy broke
up in the Spring, to be treated by our Surgeons.

I had been in prison but a little while when a voice called out
from a hole in the ground, as I was passing:

"S-a-y, Sergeant!

Won't you please take these shears and cut my toes off?"
"What?" said I, in amazement, stopping in front of the dugout.

"Just take these shears, won't you, and cut my toes off?" answered the
inmate, an Indiana infantryman--holding up a pair of dull shears
in his hand, and elevating a foot for me to look at.

I examined the latter carefully.

All the flesh of the toes, except little pads at the ends, had
rotted off, leaving the bones as clean as if scraped.

The little tendons still remained, and held the bones to their places,
but this seemed to hurt the rest of the feet and annoy the man.

"You'd better let one of the Rebel doctors see this," I said, after
finishing my survey, "before you conclude to have them off.

May be they can be saved."
"No; d----d if I'm going to have any of them Rebel butchers fooling
around me.

I'd die first, and then I wouldn't," was the reply. "You can do it
better than they can. It's just a little snip. Just try it."
"I don't like to," I replied.

"I might lame you for life, and make you lots of trouble."

"O, bother! what business is that of yours? They're my toes, and I want
'em off. They hurt me so I can't sleep. Come, now, take the shears and
cut 'em off."
I yielded, and taking the shears, snipped one tendon after another, close
to the feet, and in a few seconds had the whole ten toes lying in a
heap at the bottom of the dug-out. I picked them up and handed them to
their owner, who gazed at them, complacently, and remarked:
"Well, I'm darned glad they're off.

I won't be bothered with corns any more, I flatter myself."

CHAPTER LXX.

HOUSE AND CLOTHES--EFFORTS TO ERECT A SUITABLE RESIDENCE--DIFFICULTIES
ATTENDING THIS--VARIETIES OF FLORENTINE ARCHITECTURE--WAITING FOR
DEAD MEN'S CLOTHES--CRAVING FOR TOBACCO.

We were put into the old squads to fill the places of those who had
recently died, being assigned to these vacancies according to the
initials of our surnames, the same rolls being used that we had
signed as paroles.

This separated Andrews and me, for the "A's" were taken to fill up
the first hundreds of the First Thousand, while the "M's," to which
I belonged, went into the next Thousand.

I was put into the Second Hundred of the Second Thousand, and its
Sergeant dying shortly after, I was given his place, and commanded
the hundred, drew its rations, made out its rolls, and looked out
for its sick during the rest of our stay there.

Andrews and I got together again, and began fixing up what little
we could to protect ourselves against the weather.

Cold as this was we decided that it was safer to endure it and risk
frost-biting every night than to build one of the mud-walled and
mud-covered holes that so many, lived in.

These were much warmer than lying out on the frozen ground, but we
believed that they were very unhealthy, and that no one lived long who
inhabited them.

So we set about repairing our faithful old blanket--now full of
great holes.

We watched the dead men to get pieces of cloth from their garments
to make patches, which we sewed on with yarn raveled from other
fragments of woolen cloth.

Some of our company, whom we found in the prison, donated us the
three sticks necessary to make tent-poles --wonderful generosity
when the preciousness of firewood is remembered.

We hoisted our blanket upon these; built a wall of mud bricks at one
end, and in it a little fireplace to economize our scanty fuel to
the last degree, and were once more at home, and much better off
than most of our neighbors.

One of these, the proprietor of a hole in the ground covered with an
arch of adobe bricks, had absolutely no bed-clothes except a couple
of short pieces of board--and very little other clothing. He dug a
trench in the bottom of what was by courtesy called his tent,
sufficiently large to contain his body below his neck. At nightfall
he would crawl into this, put his two bits of board so that they
joined over his breast, and then say: "Now, boys, cover me over;"
whereupon his friends would cover him up with dry sand from the
sides of his domicile, in which he would slumber quietly till
morning, when he would rise, shake the sand from his garments, and
declare that he felt as well refreshed as if he had slept on a
spring mattress.

There has been much talk of earth baths of late years in scientific
and medical circles.

I have been sorry that our Florence comrade if he still lives--did not
contribute the results of his experience.

The pinching cold cured me of my repugnance to wearing dead men's clothes,
or rather it made my nakedness so painful that I was glad to cover it
as best I could, and I began foraging among the corpses for garments.
For awhile my efforts to set myself up in the mortuary second-hand
clothing business were not all successful. I found that dying men with
good clothes were as carefully watched over by sets of fellows who
constituted themselves their residuary legatees as if they were men
of fortune dying in the midst of a circle of expectant nephews and
nieces. Before one was fairly cold his clothes would be appropriated
and divided, and I have seen many sharp fights between contesting
claimants.

I soon perceived that my best chance was to get up very early in the
morning, and do my hunting.

The nights were so cold that many could not sleep, and they would
walk up and down the streets, trying to keep warm by exercise.

Towards morning, becoming exhausted, they would lie down on the ground
almost anywhere, and die. I have frequently seen so many as fifty of
these.

My first "find" of any importance was a young Pennsylvania Zouave,
who was lying dead near the bridge that crossed the Creek.

His clothes were all badly worn, except his baggy, dark trousers,
which were nearly new.

I removed these, scraped out from each of the dozens of great folds
in the legs about a half pint of lice, and drew the garments over
my own half-frozen limbs, the first real covering those members had
had for four or five months.

The pantaloons only came down about half-way between my knees and
feet, but still they were wonderfully comfortable to what I had
been--or rather not been--wearing.

I had picked up a pair of boot bottoms, which answered me for shoes, and
now I began a hunt for socks. This took several morning expeditions,
but on one of them I was rewarded with finding a corpse with a good brown
one --army make--and a few days later I got another, a good, thick genuine
one, knit at home, of blue yarn, by some patient, careful housewife.

Almost the next morning I had the good fortune to find a dead man
with a warm, whole, infantry dress-coat, a most serviceable garment.

As I still had for a shirt the blouse Andrews had given me at Millen, I
now considered my wardrobe complete, and left the rest of the
clothes to those who were more needy than I.

Those who used tobacco seemed to suffer more from a deprivation of
the weed than from lack of food.

There were no sacrifices they would not make to obtain it, and it was no
uncommon thing for boys to trade off half their rations for a chew
of "navy plug."

As long as one had anything--especially buttons--to trade, tobacco could
be procured from the guards, who were plentifully supplied with it.

When means of barter were gone, chewers frequently became so desperate
as to beg the guards to throw them a bit of the precious nicotine.

Shortly after our arrival at Florence, a prisoner on the East Side
approached one of the Reserves with the request:
"Say, Guard, can't you give a fellow a chew of tobacco?"

To which the guard replied:

"Yes; come right across the line there and I'll drop you down a
bit."

The unsuspecting prisoner stepped across the Dead Line, and the guard--a
boy of sixteen--raised his gun and killed him.

At the North Side of the prison, the path down to the Creek lay right
along side of the Dead Line, which was a mere furrow in the ground.

At night the guards, in their zeal to kill somebody, were very
likely to imagine that any one going along the path for water was
across the Dead Line, and fire upon him.

It was as bad as going upon the skirmish line to go for water after
nightfall.

Yet every night a group of boys would be found standing at the head
of the path crying out:

"Fill your buckets for a chew of tobacco."

That is, they were willing to take all the risk of running that gauntlet
for this moderate compensation.

CHAPTER LXXI.

DECEMBER--RATIONS OF WOOD AND FOOD GROW LESS DAILY--UNCERTAINTY AS
TO THE MORTALITY AT FLORENCE--EVEN THE GOVERNMENT'S STATISTICS ARE
VERY DEFICIENT--CARE FOB THE SICK.

The rations of wood grew smaller as the weather grew colder, until
at last they settled down to a piece about the size of a kitchen
rolling-pin per day for each man.

This had to serve for all purposes--cooking, as well as warming. We
split the rations up into slips about the size of a carpenter's lead
pencil, and used them parsimoniously, never building a fire so big
that it could not be covered with a half-peck measure.
We hovered closely over this--covering it, in fact, with our hands and
bodies, so that not a particle of heat was lost. Remembering the
Indian's sage remark, "That the white man built a big fire and sat away
off from it; the Indian made a little fire and got up close to it," we
let nothing in the way of caloric be wasted by distance. The pitch-pine
produced great quantities of soot, which, in cold and rainy days, when
we hung over the fires all the time, blackened our faces until we
were beyond the recognition of intimate friends.

There was the same economy of fuel in cooking.

Less than half as much as is contained in a penny bunch of kindling was
made to suffice in preparing our daily meal. If we cooked mush we
elevated our little can an inch from the ground upon a chunk of
clay, and piled the little sticks around it so carefully that none
should burn without yielding all its heat to the vessel, and not
one more was burned than absolutely necessary. If we baked bread we
spread the dough upon our chessboard, and propped it up before the
little fire-place, and used every particle of heat evolved. We had to
pinch and starve ourselves thus, while within five minutes' walk from the
prison-gate stood enough timber to build a great city.

The stump Andrews and I had the foresight to save now did us excellent
service. It was pitch pine, very fat with resin, and a little piece
split off each day added much to our fires and our comfort.

One morning, upon examining the pockets of an infantryman of my
hundred who had just died, I had the wonderful luck to find a silver
quarter.

I hurried off to tell Andrews of our unexpected good fortune. By an
effort he succeeded in calming himself to the point of receiving
the news with philosophic coolness, and we went into Committee of
the Whole Upon the State of Our Stomachs, to consider how the money
could be spent to the best advantage.

At the south side of the Stockade on the outside of the timbers, was a
sutler shop, kept by a Rebel, and communicating with the prison by a
hole two or three feet square, cut through the logs.

The Dead Line was broken at this point, so as to permit prisoners
to come up to the hole to trade. The articles for sale were corn meal
and bread, flour and wheat bread, meat, beaus, molasses, honey,
sweet potatos, etc.

I went down to the place, carefully inspected the stock, priced
everything there, and studied the relative food value of each.

I came back, reported my observations and conclusions to Andrews,
and then staid at the tent while he went on a similar errand.

The consideration of the matter was continued during the day and night,
and the next morning we determined upon investing our twenty-five
cents in sweet potatos, as we could get nearly a half-bushel of them,
which was "more fillin' at the price," to use the words of Dickens's Fat
Boy, than anything else offered us. We bought the potatos, carried
them home in our blanket, buried them in the bottom of our tent, to
keep them from being stolen, and restricted ourselves to two per day
until we had eaten them all.

The Rebels did something more towards properly caring for the sick
than at Andersonville.

A hospital was established in the northwestern corner of the Stockade,
and separated from the rest of the camp by a line of police,
composed of our own men.

In this space several large sheds were erected, of that rude
architecture common to the coarser sort of buildings in the South.

There was not a nail or a bolt used in their entire construction. Forked
posts at the ends and sides supported poles upon which were laid the
long "shakes," or split shingles, forming the roofs, and which were
held in place by other poles laid upon them.
The sides and ends were enclosed by similar "shakes," and altogether they
formed quite a fair protection against the weather. Beds of pine leaves
were provided for the sick, and some coverlets, which our Sanitary
Commission had been allowed to send through. But nothing was done to bathe
or cleanse them, or to exchange their lice-infested garments for others
less full of torture. The long tangled hair and whiskers were not cut,
nor indeed were any of the commonest suggestions for the improvement
of the condition of the sick put into execution. Men who had
laid in their mud hovels until they had become helpless and hopeless,
were admitted to the hospital, usually only to die.

The diseases were different in character from those which swept off the
prisoners at Andersonville. There they were mostly of the digestive
organs; here of the respiratory. The filthy, putrid, speedily fatal
gangrene of Andersonville became here a dry, slow wasting away of the
parts, which continued for weeks, even months, without being necessarily
fatal.

Men's feet and legs, and less frequently their hands and arms, decayed
and sloughed off. The parts became so dead that a knife could be run
through them without causing a particle of pain.

The dead flesh hung on to the bones and tendons long after the nerves
and veins had ceased to perform their functions, and sometimes
startled one by dropping off in a lump, without causing pain or
hemorrhage.

The appearance of these was, of course, frightful, or would have been,
had we not become accustomed to them. The spectacle of men with their
feet and legs a mass of dry ulceration, which had reduced the flesh
to putrescent deadness, and left the tendons standing out like
cords, was too common to excite remark or even attention.

Unless the victim was a comrade, no one specially heeded his condition.
Lung diseases and low fevers ravaged the camp, existing all the
time in a more or less virulent condition, according to the changes
of the weather, and occasionally ragging in destructive epidemics.

I am unable to speak with any degree of definiteness as to the death
rate, since I had ceased to interest myself about the number dying
each day.

I had now been a prisoner a year, and had become so torpid and
stupefied, mentally and physically, that I cared comparatively
little for anything save the rations of food and of fuel.

The difference of a few spoonfuls of meal, or a large splinter of
wood in the daily issues to me, were of more actual importance than
the increase or decrease of the death rate by a half a score or more.

At Andersonville I frequently took the trouble to count the number
of dead and living, but all curiosity of this kind had now died out.

Nor can I find that anybody else is in possession of much more than
my own information on the subject.

Inquiry at the War Department has elicited the following letters:

I.

The prison records of Florence, S.

C., have never come to light, and therefore the number of prisoners
confined there could not be ascertained from the records on file
in this office; nor do I think that any statement purporting to
show that number has ever been made.

In the report to Congress of March 1, 1869, it was shown from records as
follows:

Escaped, fifty-eight; paroled, one; died, two thousand seven hundred and
ninety-three. Total, two thousand eight hundred and fifty-two.

Since date of said report there have been added to the records as
follows:

Died, two hundred and twelve; enlisted in Rebel army, three hundred and
twenty-six. Total, five hundred and thirty-eight.

Making a total disposed of from there, as shown by records on file,
of three thousand three hundred and ninety.

This, no doubt, is a small proportion of the number actually
confined there.

The hospital register on file contains that part only of the alphabet
subsequent to, and including part of the letter S, but from this
register, it is shown that the prisoners were arranged in hundreds and
thousands, and the hundred and thousand to which he belonged is recorded
opposite each man's name on said register. Thus:

"John Jones, 11th thousand, 10th hundred."
Eleven thousand being the highest number thus recorded, it is fair to
presume that not less than that number were confined there on a certain
date, and that more than that number were confined there during the
time it was continued as a prison.

II
Statement showing the whole number of Federals and Confederates captured,
(less the number paroled on the field), the number who died while
prisoners, and the percentage of deaths, 1861-1865
FEDERALS Captured .................................................. 187,818
Died, (as shown by prison and hospital records on file).... 30,674
Percentage of deaths ...................................... 16.375

CONFEDERATES Captured ..................................................
227,570 Died ......................................................
26,774 Percentage of deaths ......................................
11.768

In the detailed statement prepared for Congress dated March 1, 1869,
the whole number of deaths given as shown by Prisoner of War records
was twenty-six thousand three hundred and twenty-eight, but since
that date evidence of three thousand six hundred and twenty-eight
additional deaths has been obtained from the captured Confederate
records, making a total of twenty-nine thousand nine hundred and
fifty-six as above shown.

This is believed to be many thousands less than the actual number
of Federal prisoners who died in Confederate prisons, as we have
no records from those at Montgomery Ala., Mobile, Ala., Millen,
Ga., Marietta, Ga., Atlanta, Ga., Charleston, S.

C., and others. The records of Florence, S. C., and Salisbury, N. C., are
very incomplete.

It also appears from Confederate inspection reports of Confederate
prisons, that large percentage of the deaths occurred in prison
quarter without the care or knowledge of the Surgeon.

For the month of December, 1864 alone, the Confederate "burial report";
Salisbury, N.

C., show that out, of eleven hundred and fifty deaths, two hundred
and twenty-three, or twenty per cent., died in prison quarters and
are not accounted for in the report of the Surgeon, and therefore
not taken into consideration in the above report, as the only records
of said prisons on file (with one exception) are the Hospital
records.

       Calculating the percentage of deaths on this basis would give the
number of deaths at thirty-seven thousand four hundred and forty-five
and percentage of deaths at 20.023.

[End of the Letters from the War Department.]
If we assume that the Government's records of Florence as correct, it
will be apparent that one man in every three die there, since,
while there might have been as high as fifty thousand at one time
in the prison, during the last three months of its existence I am
quite sure that the number did not exceed seven thousand.

This would make the mortality much greater than at Andersonville,
which it undoubtedly was, since the physical condition of the prisoners
confined there had been greatly depressed by their long confinement,
while the bulk c the prisoners at Andersonville were those who had
been brought thither directly from the field.

I think also that all who experienced confinement in the two places
are united in pronouncing Florence to be, on the whole, much the
worse place and more fatal to life.

The medicines furnished the sick were quite simple in nature and
mainly composed of indigenous substances.

For diarrhea red pepper and decoctions of blackberry root and of pine
leave were given.

For coughs and lung diseases, a decoction of wild cherry bark was
administered.

Chills and fever were treated with decoctions of dogwood bark, and fever
patients who craved something sour, were given a weak acid drink,
made by fermenting a small quantity of meal in a barrel of water.

All these remedies were quite good in their way, and would have
benefitted the patients had they been accompanied by proper shelter,
food and clothing.

The
capability to do that was reserved to a woman's beauty--the effect of
which, so far, I had had no opportunity to experience. That opportunity
came to me for the first time at Nice--twenty years ago. I had never
seen a really beautiful woman before I saw Colette d'Orsel."

Another pause followed the name. The room behind the curtains remained
in tense silence until the voice resumed.

"I can remember it now--as if it were yesterday. How she stood
there--in the soft shaded light--terribly beautiful. And I--the
Destroyer--watched her paralyzed--knowing for the first time the
pinnacle of my madness. The sight of her numbed all my sanity. I could
no more have torn myself away from that place than I could have resisted
the new flood of my disease that broke over me like a nightmare wave. I
was introduced to her. As I bent over her hand I almost laughed at the
thought of what her horror would have been if she had known the impulses
that surged through me. Her voice--the touch of her--burnt into me like
flames. I knew what the end would be, but I was powerless in the grip of
my inheritance. And she--in the pitiless irony of it--liked me! Three
evenings later I met her in the gardens of the hotel. We sat together
... alone for the first time. I struggled. My God, I struggled! But it
was useless. The white shape of her next to me--the dim outline of her
features--the whole nearness of her beauty.... Then it came on me, as I
knew it would--the final rush of irresistible hatred. When I knew myself
again ... she was lying on the ground ... smashed ... my first living
victim."

The woman sobbed.

"God forgive him!" she cried. "He was innocent himself. It wasn't really
him...."

Light footsteps moved across the floor.

"Let me be," said the voice hardly. "What God does with me is for God to
do. Sit down again."

The footsteps returned.

"I left her there, and went back to the hotel. I sat down in my room,
and analyzed my feelings. The madness had left me. My mind was perfectly
clear and steady. I felt no horror at what I had done--no remorse--only
a sense of impersonal regret at the death of an innocent woman, and a
faint detached pity for her misfortune in crossing my path. I carefully
considered my position, and certainty that there could be no evidence
against me dispelled any fears for myself--but my cold-blooded sanity
realized that the odds were tremendously against a recurrence of the
same good fortune, and that the avoidance of the opposite sex must
become the chief care of my life. Then I went to bed, and slept
soundly. The discovery of Colette d'Orsel's body early the next morning
provided the sensation of the year at Nice. The police were confounded.
There was no motive--no clue. It is an unsolved mystery to-day."

The callousness of the story was so revolting that even the inspector,
seasoned as he was, allowed a muttered expression of disgust to escape
him. But Monsieur Dupont remained as silent and still as the house
itself.

"Ten years later," continued the voice, "I went to America. For five
years I had been free from any return of the madness. You can imagine
the longing to be like other men--to presume on the years of immunity. I
felt unshakably sane. I even felt that I had never been mad. I gloried
in the keenness of my intellect, the absolute order and control of my
thoughts. What had I to do with madness? But in Boston ... I saw
Margaret McCall. In an instant I was mad. In an instant----"

A cry tore the air--a cry so awful in its inhuman fury that the two
listeners shrank back horrified. For a moment the room seethed with
confusion. The voices of men and women were blended in rage, terror, and
command. Then the curtains were wrenched aside, and two figures rushed
out shrieking into the darkness of the garden.


CHAPTER XXXII

THE BEAUTY-KILLER


Four more figures dashed out through the curtains--two women and two
men. The inspector and Monsieur Dupont joined them. Guided by the sounds
in front of them, they dashed across the garden at the top of their
speed.

A black wall of earth loomed up before them, like the rising of a
gigantic wave. It was strongly rivetted, and must have been at least ten
feet high. It was quite inaccessible from where the pursuers stopped
beneath it.

"Look! Look!" a woman screamed.

They looked up.

"My God!" the inspector exclaimed.

On the height above them, silhouetted against the pale sky of the summer
night, they saw a figure--its arms uplifted in an attitude of majesty,
of triumphant defiance. The white light of the moon lit up a face
terrible beyond words in its pride, its sin, and its utter madness.

"I am the Beauty-Killer! I killed Colette d'Orsel! I killed Margaret
McCall. I killed Christine Manderson...."

Another figure scrambled up out of the darkness on to the height, and
the silver head of Oscar Winslowe gleamed in the light. For a moment he
crouched--then sprang forward with a yell. The two figures swayed
backwards in a fierce struggle.

"They will go down!" a man's voice cried. "It is the edge of a gravel
pit. The fence will not bear. There is a sheer drop of fifty feet."

"Let them go," another woman sobbed. "It is the best way."

And, even as she spoke, there was the sound of tearing woodwork. The
struggling figures stood out for an instant with startling
clearness--then disappeared like the sudden shutting off of a moving
picture. And the whole night seemed to wince at the thud that followed.

"We must go down," the man's voice said, breaking the silence in an
awestruck whisper. "There is a way round the other side."

They followed him round the edge of the pit. It seemed like walking
round the world. They descended a steep slope--and then, in the vast
gray silence, a circle of pale faces surrounded the dead bodies of Oscar
Winslowe, and John Tranter.


CHAPTER XXXIII

LAST TRUTHS


"My friends," said Monsieur Dupont, "you have already heard a great part
of the story. John Tranter was the son of Oscar Winslowe. He was mad. He
was, as he called himself truly, a Beauty-Killer. That strange lust he
inherited from his mother, who had been robbed of all she cared for, and
hoped for, in life by a beautiful woman, and rendered insane three
months before his birth. It was a most pathetic tragedy. We shall now
hear----"

"One moment," Inspector Fay interrupted. "As I represent the police
here, I should be glad to know, before we go any further, whose house I
am in."

"Pardon me," Monsieur Dupont apologized. "I had forgotten. You are in
the house of Doctor Lessing," he inclined himself towards the doctor,
"who will in due course repeat to you a statement which he made to me
yesterday. This lady is Miss Masters, who was Tranter's nurse. Mrs.
Astley-Rolfe and Mr. Copplestone--which, I fancy, is not his correct
name--you know already."

He added a high compliment to the inspector's present position and past
achievements, and then turned to Copplestone.

"Mr. Copplestone, when Tranter did not return to me at the appointed
time this afternoon, I went to your house. I found great changes. I
found it, as you say, upside down."

Copplestone was radiant with happiness. Every trace of the old gloom had
left him. He was a new man.

"I should think you did!" he retorted. "And you'd have found the earth
upside down as well, if I'd been able to turn it."

"I was puzzled," Monsieur Dupont admitted. "I could not understand it.
But I knew this--that when the shadows roll away from a man's house,
they roll away from his life. When he draws the blinds and throws open
the windows of his house to the light and the air, he draws the blinds
and throws open the windows of his soul. When he straightens his garden,
he straightens himself. I knew that before you would lift the cloud from
your house something must have lifted the cloud from you. You had been
delivered----"

"There was a fellow in the Bible," said Copplestone--"I think he was a
king--who was cured of leprosy by taking a dip in a river. I don't know
what happened afterwards, but I am quite sure that he turned his palace
upside down when he got back."

He sprang up, his face illuminated with all the wonder of his new birth.

"I am free!" he cried. "Free! That's what my house told you. I had been
brought out into the light after half a life of darkness. I had been
released after forty years of prison, of torment that all the tortures
of the Inquisition at once couldn't have equalled!"

He stared about him, like an intoxicated man.

"This room is too small!" he almost shouted. "Everything is too small. I
want to dance on the Universe. I want the world to be a football. I want
to play enormous games with giants--" He checked himself abruptly, and
sat down. "Forgive me," he said. "You would understand, if you knew what
I have suffered."

"I can, for one," agreed the doctor heartily.

"And I, indeed," said Monsieur Dupont. "But to proceed with the story--I
think it would be better to commence with what Miss Masters has to tell
us."

He bowed to a gray-haired, grief-stricken woman. There was a pause
before she overcame her emotion sufficiently to speak.

"I took charge of Mary Winslowe's child from its birth," she began, at
last. "She entrusted it to me in her sane moments, and I kept my trust
faithfully. Perhaps it would have been better if I had not."

"You did your duty," the doctor said.

"It was a condition that he should never come under his father's
influence, or even know his real name. He was to be kept in complete
ignorance of the tragedy of his birth. It was necessary for him to be
christened in his proper name to legalize the inheritance of his
mother's fortune, but after that I took him away, and brought him up in
strict accordance with my promises. He was told that both his parents
had been drowned at sea. I gave him the name of John Tranter--Tranter
was an old family name of mine. He was a bonny little fellow. I never
thought that he might have inherited his mother's madness."

"The Laws of Nature are inexorable," said the doctor. "If only the
Second Commandment were given to people as the Law of Nature instead of
the threat of God, it would be of some value."

"I hardly realized it," she went on, "even when the symptoms had
unmistakably developed. But it increased too plainly to be denied. I
hoped and prayed that the horrible disease would pass away from him as
he grew up--but it grew stronger and stronger with him. At last he made
me tell him what it really was. It was against my promise, but he had to
know. I pledged my word that I would keep his secret, and it was
arranged that whenever he felt the approach of an attack he would come
to me. I kept things for him. At first smaller things satisfied him. He
was content to destroy flowers, pictures, prettily colored china,
anything that was beautiful. But after that visit to France, when he was
twenty, there was a change. He never told me what had happened--that he
had killed a woman--but from that time only a woman's beauty would
satisfy him. The attacks became few and far between, but when they came
he would have died with the very force of his madness if he had not had
some representation of a beautiful woman to expend it on."

"It's frightful--incredible," the inspector exclaimed.

He then went out. Andrews and I had just finished cooking dinner, and
were sitting down to eat it. Wishing to lend our frying-pan to another
mess, I looked around for something to lay our meat upon.

Near the horses I saw a book cover, which would answer the purpose
admirably.

Springing up, I skipped across to where it was, snatched it up, and ran
back to my place. As I reached it a yell from the boys made me look around.
The darky was coming at me "full tilt," with his gun at a "charge
bayonets." As I turned he said:

"Put dat right back dah!"

I said:

"Why, this don't amount to anything, this is only an old book cover.
It hasn't anything in the world to do with the horses."
He only replied:

"Put dat right back dah!"
I tried another appeal:

"Now, you woolly-headed son of thunder, haven't you got sense enough
to know that the officer who posted you didn't mean such a thing
as this!

He only meant that we should not be allowed to take any of the
horses' bedding or equipments; don't you see?"

I might as well have reasoned with a cigar store Indian.

He set his teeth, his eyes showed a dangerous amount of white, and
foreshortening his musket for a lunge, he hissed out again "Put dat
right back dah, I tell you!"

I looked at the bayonet; it was very long, very bright, and very
sharp.
It gleamed cold and chilly like, as if it had not run through a man
for a long time, and yearned for another opportunity.

Nothing but the whites of the darky's eyes could now be seen.

I did not want to perish there in the fresh bloom of my youth and
loveliness; it seemed to me as if it was my duty to reserve myself
for fields of future usefulness, so I walked back and laid the book
cover precisely on the spot whence I had obtained it, while the
thousand boys in the house set up a yell of sarcastic laughter.

We staid in Wilmington a few days, days of almost purely animal
enjoyment--the joy of having just as much to eat as we could possibly
swallow, and no one to molest or make us afraid in any way.

How we did eat and fill up. The wrinkles in our skin smoothed out under
the stretching, and we began to feel as if we were returning to
our old plumpness, though so far the plumpness was wholly abdominal.

One morning we were told that the transports would begin going back with
us that afternoon, the first that left taking the sick. Andrews and I,
true to our old prison practices, resolved to be among those on
the first boat.

We slipped through the guards and going up town, went straight to
Major General Schofield's headquarters and solicited a pass to go
on the first boat--the steamer "Thorn."

General Schofield treated us very kindly; but declined to let anybody but
the helplessly sick go on the "Thorn."

Defeated here we went down to where the vessel was lying at the dock,
and tried to smuggle ourselves aboard, but the guard was too strong
and too vigilant, and we were driven away.

Going along the dock, angry and discouraged by our failure, we saw
a Surgeon, at a little distance, who was examining and sending the
sick who could walk aboard another vessel--the "General Lyon."

We took our cue, and a little shamming secured from him tickets
which permitted us to take our passage in her.

The larger portion of those on board were in the hold, and a few were on
deck. Andrews and I found a snug place under the forecastle,
by the anchor chains.

Both vessels speedily received their complement, and leaving their
docks, started down the river. The "Thorn" steamed ahead of us, and
disappeared. Shortly after we got under way, the Colonel who was put in
command of the boat--himself a released prisoner--came around on a tour
of inspection. He found about one thousand of us aboard, and singling me
out made me the non-commissioned officer in command. I was put in
charge, of issuing the rations and of a barrel of milk punch which the
Sanitary Commission had sent down to be dealt out on the voyage to such
as needed it. I went to work and arranged the boys in the best way I
could, and returned to the deck to view the scenery.

Wilmington is thirty-four miles from the sea, and the river for that
distance is a calm, broad estuary.
"Have you not observed how, by their characters, their habits,
and their desires, human beings draw to themselves certain events and
conditions of life? And it is equally true that houses draw to
themselves certain contents and certain kinds of inhabitants. If a house
is particularly adapted to contain a secret, in the course of time will
certainly contain one. By a few strokes of his pencil an architect can
condemn a house to become the scene of a murder, as surely as he can
make it a convenient or inconvenient dwelling. Your house was
constructed to hide a secret. And I was not only sure that it did hide
one, but that it hid one which was in some way connected with the crime
in the garden."

"I have had some experience of that instinct of yours," the inspector
remarked, with a somewhat rueful smile.

"Well," said Copplestone, "instinct or no instinct, it certainly did
hide a secret, and that secret was that Oscar Winslowe lived in it--if
his condition could be called living. For the last five years he had
been practically a helpless imbecile. He seldom uttered a sound beyond a
gibber, and hardly seemed to be conscious. He was suffering the natural
consequences of his vices. He had been gradually reaching that
condition since nature had dealt him her first stroke of vengeance more
than thirty years ago. One by one his faculties had rotted. He was a
living mass of decay."

"It was a sure thing," the doctor said. "Such a condition was bound to
come. I prophesied it to his face when I first knew him."

"That was the secret of my house," Copplestone proceeded. "My own secret
was that I believed myself to be his son--the inheritor of the curse
that really belonged to Tranter. And the horror of it, the helplessness,
the constant contemplation of the awful state of the man I knew as my
father, and the morbid certainty that sooner or later I must come to the
same state, actually drove me to the madness that was not really in me
at all."

"But how had you come to believe yourself to be his son?" the inspector
asked.

"That was the last of Winslowe's diabolical acts. He inherited a large
fortune on condition that a child of his, to whom it could succeed, was
alive at the time of the testator's death. He did not know anything of
his own child, and did not want to. He was afraid that if he made
public inquiries for it, he might learn publicly that it was dead, and
lose his claim. Also, he was afraid of other complications and
exposures."

"And with good reason," said the doctor grimly.

"He wanted a child of five to produce as his son, George Copplestone
Winslowe--and possibly make away with in due course after the business
was settled. I am quite sure that would have been my fate if nature had
not come to my rescue by striking him. He knew, from his knowledge of
the underworld of London, how such things could be arranged without
risk. No doubt he bought me for a few pounds. I am not the first heir to
an estate who has been produced by such means."

"True enough," agreed the inspector. "The heir to a million has been
bought for a fiver."

"But a few years after taking possession of the fortune, he was struck
down, as I have said, by the first instalment of nature's retribution,
and was incapable of carrying out his plans. No one cared for me. No one
thought of removing me from the sight and influence of his growing
imbecility. I was brought up under the shadow of it. And so the horror
was born in me--the belief that I was mad. What chance had I to resist
it, in those surroundings? When I came to an age to do so, I searched
out the story of my birth, of my father's excesses and my mother's
madness, and my doom crashed upon me. Can you wonder that I became what
I was?"

"No, indeed," said Monsieur Dupont.

"I dropped the name of Winslowe. It was loathsome to me. I used my other
two names, George Copplestone. They, at least, had come from my mother's
side. My old manservant and his wife stuck to me, and kept my secrets.
The income devolved on me in consequence of Winslowe's incapability. And
so things went on. In my morbid demoralization I saw myself growing
nearer and nearer to that wretched creature day by day."

"Dreadful!" shuddered the doctor. "It must have been a living hell."

"Then, last night, Tranter came. He climbed up on the ivy, and tried to
spy into Winslowe's room. But I was there, and heard him. I dragged him
in through the window. I suppose it was some look, some likeness to his
mother, that stirred Winslowe's memory. He recognized him, and a flash
of sanity came back to him. Under that sudden mental stimulation he
recovered his power of movement, and was able to confess at least a part
of the truth. Tranter was taken off his guard, and I forced him to admit
his madness. I compelled him to take Winslowe and myself to Miss
Masters, and she, in her turn, brought us here."

"I imagined she would," Monsieur Dupont remarked.

Copplestone drew a deep breath, and laughed aloud.

"And I am like other men! I can live as other men live. I can do what
other men do. I can----" His eyes rested on the woman beside him, and
his face grew tender. "Yes," he repeated slowly, "I can ... I can...."

There was a pause.

"And it was Tranter who killed Christine Manderson...." the inspector
said, almost to himself.

"It was," said Monsieur Dupont. "He admitted to you on the night of the
crime that he had known her in America years ago. And here we have a
curious study in conflicting emotions. When he first met her, he had
already killed two beautiful women. She was certainly more beautiful
than either--yet he was able to associate with her on intimate terms for
a considerable time, and even to tear himself away from her at last,
without adding her to the victims of his madness. How was he able to do
that? It was undoubtedly because he loved her. He had not loved either
of the other two, so there had been no opposing emotion to his mania.
But he loved Christine Manderson, and love was capable of holding the
madness in check, because love, in its full strength, is the strongest
of all human emotions. Love is stronger than madness, and ten times
stronger than sanity. But after he left her the love faded to a certain
extent, while the madness increased. Therefore, when he was suddenly
confronted with her extraordinary beauty a few nights ago, the love that
had faded was unable to restrain the madness that had not. And he killed
her."

"My God!" exclaimed Copplestone, "to think that he stood there with us
over the body he had torn--and even lifted it into my arms--without so
much as a quiver."

"He was not capable of remorse or regret," Monsieur Dupont returned. 'You
would fancy yourself among a Professor's book-cases, or in a book-shop,
or amid the benches of a lecture-room.' The Bishop considered that this
library of the Villa Prusiana was as good as anything that could
be found in Rome or Alexandria.

The books were arranged according to subjects. The room had a 'ladies'
side'; and here were arranged the devotional works. The illuminated
volumes, as far as can now be judged, were rather gaudy than
brilliant, as was natural in an age of decadence; but St.

Germanus was a friend of the Bishop, and as we suppose of the Prefect,
and his copy of the Gospels was in gold and silver letters on purple
vellum, as may still be seen. By the gentlemen's seats were ranged
the usual classical volumes, all the works of Varro, which now
exist only in fragments, and the poets sacred and profane; behind
certain cross-benches was the literary food of a lighter kind, more
suited to the weaker vessels without regard to sex.

Here every one found what would suit his own liking and capacity,
and here on the day after their arrival the company worked hard
after breakfast 'for four hours by the water clock.'

Suddenly the door was thrown open, and in his uniform the head cook
appeared and solemnly warned them all that their meal was served, and
that it was as necessary to nourish the body as to stuff the mind
with learning.

When the barbarians were established through Gaul and Italy the libraries
in the old country-houses must have been completely destroyed. Some
faint light of learning remained while Boethius 'trimmed the lamp
with his skilful hand'; some knowledge of the classics survived
during the lives of Cassiodorus and Isidore of Seville. Some of the
original splendour may have lingered at Rome, and perhaps in Ravenna.
When Boethius was awaiting his doom in the tower at Pavia, his mind
reverted to the lettered ease of his life before he had offended the
fierce Theodoric. His philosophy found comfort in thinking that
all the valuable part of his books was firmly imprinted on his
soul; but he never ceased regretting the walls inlaid with ivory and
the shining painted windows in his old library at Rome.

CHAPTER II.

IRELAND--NORTHUMBRIA.

The knowledge of books might almost have disappeared in the seventh
century, when the cloud of ignorance was darkest, but for a new
and remarkable development of learning in the Irish monasteries.

This development is of special interest to ourselves from the fact
that the church of Northumbria was long dependent on the Irish
settlement at Iona.

The Anglians taught by Paulinus very soon relapsed into paganism, and the
second conversion of the North was due to the missionaries of the
school of St. Columba. The power of Rome was established at the Council
of Whitby; but in the days when Aidan preached at Lindisfarne the
Northumbrians were still in obedience to an Irish rule, and were instructed
and edified by the acts and lives of St. Patrick, of St.
Brigit, and the mighty Columba.

We shall quote some of the incidents recorded about the Irish books, a
few legends of Patrick and dim traditions from the days of Columba, before
noticing the rise of the English school.

The first mention of the Irish books seems to be contained in a
passage of Æthicus. The cosmography ascribed to that name has been
traced to very early times.

It was long believed to have been written by St.

Jerome; but in its present form, at least, the work contains entries
of a much later date.Copplestone, and tell
him she was not well, and of how he had left her on her way to the
house, was a succession of ingenious lies which could not be disproved.
That is my story," concluded Monsieur Dupont. "The next most important
point at the moment is that James Layton is cleared of a charge from
which he could not possibly have saved himself."

"Layton will be released with full honors to-morrow," the inspector
said.

"And I think," added Monsieur Dupont, "that there will be another
matter--not unconnected with a young lady named Jenny West--upon which
we shall have to congratulate him--and with very good reason."




CHAPTER XXXIV

CONCLUSION


Half-an-hour later, when the doctor's statement had been made,
Copplestone and Mrs. Astley-Rolfe stood together in the flower-laden
garden.

"My dear," said the new man, "I brought you here to witness my
deliverance. Yesterday, when you had left me, I made up my mind to put
an end to my life. To-day I am free. The cloud has rolled away. By starting
out with some vital observation or question out of the automobile
world, we may count on their attention.

Following the discussion thus raised, we might then inquire the
purpose of the garages that we find along all public highways.

"