Josie Lockwood announced that she was going away to school in New York
for the winter. Pete Willing took the pledge and kept it almost a
month. Will Bigelow secured time-tables and laboriously mapped out his
semi-annually contemplated trip to the East: like the others
destined never to come off. Tracey Tanner went to work for Graham and
Duncan. The _Citizen_ gained eighteen subscribers; four old ones
paid up their accounts. Babies were born, people married and died,
loved and hated, lived in striving or sloth, accomplished or failed.
Roland Barnette paid ostentatious attentions to Bess Gabriel, who
tolerated him simply because she didn't much like Josie; but, blighted
by Josie's supreme indifference, this budding passion drooped and
failed by mutual consent of both parties concerned. Angie Tuthill
became more conspicuously than ever the orb of Tracey's universe.
Duncan walked home with Josie on two weekday evenings and twice on
Sundays, and learned how to play Halma and Parcheesi, as well as how
long to linger at the front gate in the gloaming, saying good-night.
And as their wedding-day approaches is it any wonder that poor ARCHIBALD
looks forward to it as a condemned criminal to the scaffold, and watches
day by day the setting of the sun with the same air of grim despair.

Once he tried to run away, but BELINDA, in ambush, flanked him and led
him home. Then she sent for his trunk, and made him board there. And so
he is floating along in a hopeless sort of daze, a wretched victim
of diabolical circumstances.
JEFFRY MAULBOY is visiting his brother JUDAS, at Terre Haute.The drug-store prospered in moderation, Sothern and Lee vainly
contesting its conquering campaign. And Duncan grew thoughtful.

One has more time to think unselfishly in Radville than in a great
city, where there's rarely more time than enough to think of one's own
concerns. And Duncan was making time to think about others--notably,
Betty Graham. The girl was, as usual, shy, reticent, reserved; she kept
her thoughts to herself, sharing the most intimate not even with old
Sam, who _would_ talk; but Duncan divined that she was unhappy.
The easier circumstances of the family had provided her with a few
simple frocks, adequate clothing which she had gone without for years,
and with a sufficiency of wholesome and appetising food: with these,
peace of mind should likewise have come to her, and content. But Duncan
thought they hadn't. Relieved, on Tracey's engagement, of any share in
the store service, she had only the housework for herself and father to
occupy her; her associations with the girls of her age were distant and
constrained. And when he gets home he finds a brigade of those literary
drummers, known as reporters, sitting on his doorsteps, from beneath
whose classic foreheads there glares a wild and hungry eye, to be pacified
only by a satisfactory interview.
You might say that she relied on
her father alone for companionship. Duncan she avoided, unobtrusively
but with pains; he consorted with those with whom she had nothing in
common, and she would not thrust herself upon him or seem to seek his
notice. Her early suspicion and sullen resentment of his intrusion into
their affairs had vanished; there remained only a gnawing consciousness
that to him she was little or nothing, that his vision ranged above her
humble head. She was not the sort to take this ill; she was reasonable
enough to believe it natural. But she would not willingly intrude upon
his thoughts--who little knew how much she did occupy his leisure
moments.

Think how your fathers left their native land,-- Dear German-land!
O sacred hearths and homes!--
And, where the wild beast roams, In patience planned New forest-homes
beyond the mighty sea, There undisturbed and free To live as brothers
of one family.And the distant look in those
soft eyes he divined to be one of longing for that which she might not
possess--the advantages that other girls had, socially and
educationally, the pleasures they contrived, the attentions they
received, the thousand and one slight things that make existence life
for a woman. He saw her drooping insensibly day by day, growing a
little paler, a shade more aloof and listless. And he became infinitely
concerned for her.

He told himself he had solved the problem of her disease, but its
remedy remained beyond his reach. The business was doing very well
indeed, but it was still young and must be subjected to as few
financial drains as possible; as it ran, there was an income sufficient
to board, lodge and clothe the three of them, maintain the credit of
the partnership, and now and again admit of a slight but advantageous
addition to the stock or fixtures. Things would certainly be better in
the course of time, but... Kellogg he would not beg another dollar of,
the bank was an equally impossible resource; there wasn't a chance in a
hundred that Lockwood would refuse to accommodate the growing concern
with money in reason, but the concern, individually and collectively,
would never ask it of him. There remained--?

It came to pass that he left the store early one evening, excusing
himself on the plea of some slight indisposition, and lost himself for
the space of two hours. I mean to say, that no one knew where he went
until long after. When he came home some time after ten he told me he
had been for a walk....

He found himself shortly after eight at pause by the gate to the Bohun
place. The night was dark and murmurous with a sibilant wind that sent
the leaves drifting, softly clashing one with another. At the far end
of the straight brick walk, up through the formal grounds, he could
just see the glimmer of the stately columns, and, between them, to one
side, a little twinkling light. The gate was closed, but he tried it
and found it on the latch. He entered and scuffled up the walk, ankle
deep in fallen leaves. His footfalls as he crossed the porch sounded
startlingly loud by contrast; he even fancied a note of indignation in
the cavernous echoes of the knocker on the front door. He waited with a
thumping heart, aware that he was venturing where even fools would fear
to tread.

An aged negro butler, one of the freed slaves brought from Virginia by
the Bohuns, admitted him to the hall and took his card, smothering his
own wonderment. Or, without spoken words, low breathings stole Of a
diviner life from soul to soul, Baptizing in one tender thought the
whole.

When shaken hands announced the meeting o'er, The friendly group still
lingered at the door, Greeting, inquiring, sharing all the store
Of weekly tidings.

Meanwhile youth and maid Down the green vistas of the woodland strayed,
Whispered and smiled and oft their feet delayed.

Did the boy's whistle answer back the thrushes?
Did light girl laughter ripple through the bushes, As brooks make
merry over roots and rushes?

Unvexed the sweet air seemed.

Without a wound The ear of silence heard, and every sound Its place
in nature's fine accordance found.
And solemn meeting, summer sky and wood, Old kindly faces, youth
and maidenhood Seemed, like God's new creation, very good!"Will you be good enough to
pardon this intrusion, Colonel Bohun, and spare me five minutes of your
time?"

The colonel nodded. "At your service, sir," he replied, and waited
grimly--perhaps not unsuspicious of the nature of his visitor's errand,
since he could not have been ignorant of his place in Radville.

Duncan had his own way of getting at things--generally more circuitous
than now, though he struck on a tangent sufficiently acute momentarily
to puzzle Bohun.

"May I inquire, sir, if you are acquainted with the firm of L.J.
Bartlett & Company of New York?"

"I have heard of it, Mr. Duncan, through the newspapers."

