Behold him, at last, this judge-arbitrator. On the 8th November, 1799,
he appears and takes his seat, and that very evening he goes to
work, makes his selections among the competitors and gives them their
commissions. He is a military chieftain and has installed himself;
consequently he is not dependent on a parliamentary majority, and any
insurrection or gathering of a mob is at once rendered abortive by his
troops before it is born. Street sovereignty is at an end; Parisians are
long to remember the 13th of Vendémaire and the way General Bonaparte
shot them down on the steps of Saint-Roch. All his precautions against
them are taken the first day and against all agitators whatever, against
all opponents disposed to dispute his jurisdiction. His arm-chair as
first Consul and afterwards his throne as Emperor are firmly fixed;
nobody but himself can undermine them; he is seated definitively and
will stay there. Profound silence reigns in the public crowd around
him; some among them dare whisper, but his police has its eye on them.
Instead of conforming to opinion he rules it, masters it and, if need
be, he manufactures it. Alone by himself from his seat on high,
in perfect independence and security, he announces the verdicts of
distributive justice. Nevertheless he is on his guard against the
temptations and influences which have warped the decisions of his
predecessors; in his tribunal, the schemes and intrigues which formerly
obtained credit with the people, or with the king, are no longer in
vogue; from now on, the profession of courtier or of demagogue is a
poor one.--On the one hand, there is no success, as formerly under the
monarchy, through the attentions of the ante-chamber, through elegant
manners, delicate flattery, fashionable drawing-rooms, or valets and
women on an intimate footing; mistresses here enjoy no credit and there
are neither favorites nor the favored; a valet is regarded as a useful
implement; great personages are not considered as extra-ornamental and
human furniture for the palace. It is very important for me to ascertain,
while I have you here, what sort of a reception you would accord
me?
So, let us hear. When I appear before your holiness, what will you say
to me?"
The abbe, who had been sitting with downcast eyes, and murmuring from
time to time in pleading tones: "Ah, sire! ah, sire!" now looked up, and
a flashing glance fell upon the handsome face of the king, now glowing
with mirth.

"Well?" repeated the king, "what would you say to me?"
"Sire," said Bastiani, bowing reverently, "I would say, 'Almighty
eagle, cover me with your wings, and protect me from your own beak.'"
[Footnote: Bastiani's own words.--See Thiebault, p. 43.]
"That is an answer worthy of your intellect," said the king,
smiling, "and in consideration of it I will excuse you from
relating some little history of your life.--Now, Duke Algarotti,
your time has come. You are the last, and no doubt you will conclude
the evening worthily."
"Sire, my case is similar to Bastiani's. There has been no mystery
in my life; only that which seemed miraculous for a priest was
entirely natural and simple in my case. I have travelled a great deal,
have seen the world, known men; and all my experience and the feelings
and convictions of my heart have at last laid me at the feet of your
majesty. I am like the faithful, who, having been healed by a miracle,
hang a copy of the deceased member upon the miraculous image which cured
them. My heart was sick of the world and of men; your majesty healed
it, and I lay it thankfully and humbly at your feet. This is my whole
history, and truly it is a wonderful one. I have found a manly king
and a kingly man." [Footnote: Algarotti's own words.]
"Truly, such a king is the wonder of the world," said Voltaire. "A king,
who being a king, is still a man, and being a man is still a noble
king. I believe the history of the world gives few such examples.
If we search the records of all people, we will find that all their
kings have committed many crimes and follies, and but few great,
magnanimous deeds. No, no! let us never hope to civilize kings. In
vain have men sought to soften them by the help of art; in vain
taught them to love it and to cultivate it. They are always lions,
who seemed to be tamed when perpetually nattered.Wit in itself, not alone the wit which
gives birth to brilliant expressions and which was considered a prime
accomplishment under the old regime, but general intelligence, has for
him only a semi-value.[3328] "I am more brilliant[3329], you may say?
Eh, what do I care for your intelligence? What I care for is the
essence of the matter. There is nobody so foolish that is not good for
something--there is no intelligence equal to everything." In fact,
on bestowing an office it is the function which delegates; the proper
execution of the function is the prime motive in determining his choice;
the candidate appointed is always the one who will best do the work
assigned him. No factitious, party popularity or unpopularity, no
superficial admiration or disparagement of a clique, of a salon, or of
a bureau, makes him swerve from his standard of preference.[3330]
He values men according to the quality and quantity of their work,
according to their net returns, and he estimates them directly,
personally, with superior perspicacity and universal competency. He
is special in all branches of civil or military activity, and even
in technical detail; his memory for facts, actions, antecedence and
circumstances, is prodigious; his discernment, his critical analysis,
his calculating insight into the resources and shortcomings of a mind
or of a soul, his faculty for gauging men, is extraordinary; through
constant verifications and rectifications his internal repertory, his
biographical and moral dictionary, is kept daily posted; his attention
never flags; he works eighteen hours a day; his personal intervention
and his hand are visible even in the appointment of subordinates. "Every
man called to take part in affairs was selected by him;"[3331] it is
through him that they retain their place; he controls their promotion
and by sponsors whom he knows. "A minister could not have dismissed a
functionary without consulting the emperor, while the ministers could
all change without bringing about two secondary changes throughout the
empire. A minister did not appoint even a second-class clerk without
presenting a list of several candidates to the emperor and, opposite to
it, the name of the person recommending him." All, even at a
distance, felt that the master's eyes were on them. "I worked," says
Beugnot,[3332] "from night to morning, with singular ardor; I astonished
the natives of the country who did not know that the emperor exercised
over his servitors, however far from him they might be, the miracle of
the real presence. The penalties which are ordained for the violators of
natural laws are inexorable and certain. For the transgressor of the
laws of life there is, as in the case of Esau, "no place for repentance,
though he seek it earnestly and with tears." The curse cleaves to
him and his children.
In this view, how important becomes the subject of the hereditary
transmission of moral and physical disease and debility! and how
necessary it is that there should be a clearer understanding of, and
a willing obedience, at any cost, to the eternal law which makes the
parent the blessing or the curse of the child, giving strength and
beauty, and the capacity to know and do the will of God, or bequeathing
loathsomeness, deformity, and animal appetite, incapable of the restraints
of the moral faculties!
Never did human
competition encounter a similar judge, so constant, so expert and so
justified.--He is himself conscious of the unique part he plays. His
own ambition, the highest and most insatiate of all, enables him to
comprehend the ambition of others; to place everywhere the man who suits
the post in the post which suits the man--this is what he has done for
himself and what he does for others. He knows that in this lies his
power, his deep-seated popularity, his social utility.

"Nobody," says Napoleon,[3334] "is interested in overthrowing a
government in which all the deserving are employed."

Then, again, comes his significant exclamation at the end, his summary
of modern society, a solemn grandiose figure of speech found in the
legendary souvenirs of a glorious antiquity, a classic reminiscence of
the noble Olympian games,

"Henceforth, all careers are open to talent!"


IV. The Struggle for Office and Title.

     Competition and prizes.--Multitude of offices.--How their
     number is increased by the extension of central patronage
     and of the French territory.--Situation of a Frenchman
     abroad.--It gives him rank.--Rapidity of promotion.
     Here and there may be found an equivocal, unsexed Chevalier
     D'Eon, but the eternal order and fitness of things
     will remain.
     I have no fear that man will be less manly or woman less
     womanly when they meet on terms of equality before the law.--Small number of competent candidates.--Easy
     promotion due to the lack of competitors.--Importance and
     attraction the prizes offered.--The Legion of Honor.--The
     imperial nobility.--Dotations and majorities.--Emulation.

