During these proceedings in parliament great agitation prevailed
throughout the country. The political unions convened large assemblies
in the open air, and violent resolutions were passed, which threatened a
dissolution of society. Addresses were voted to the king, praying him
to create as many peers as might be necessary, while others were sent
to the commons, praying them to stop the supplies. One meeting, which
styled itself "a meeting of the inhabitants of Westminster," assured the
king, that, unless their advice was complied with, "tumult, anarchy,
and confusion would overspread the land, and would cease only with
the extinction of the privileged orders," The national political union
resolved to present a petition, praying that, till the bill passed,
no supplies should be allowed to go into the hands of the lords of the
treasury, but should be paid over to commissioners named by the house of
commons; this course was specifically recommended to them, on the ground
that it was taken from "that admirable resolution adopted by the house
of commons in 1642." The national union also resolved "that the
betrayal of the people's cause was not attributable to Lord Grey, or
his administration; but to the base and foul treachery of others; that
meetings be recommended in every comity, town, and parish throughout the
kingdom; which, by inducing compliance with the unanimous wishes of the
people, may prevent the mischief that would otherwise result from
the general indignation; that a petition be presented to the house
of commons, praying the appointment of commissioners to receive the
supplies; and that, until the bill pass, they be not managed by the
lords of the treasury." The common-council met at Guildhall, and
passed a number of resolutions, expressing their mortification and
disappointment at the distressing communication made by ministers,
that his majesty had refused them the means of carrying the reform
Dill through the house of lords; declaring that the advisers of such a
refusal had put to hazard the stability of the throne and tranquillity
of the country; and petitioning the commons to withhold supplies till
the reform bill was carried. Tire livery of the city also met, and
passed a similar set of resolutions; adding, that "they viewed with
distrust and abhorrence attempts, at once interested and hypocritical,
to delude and mislead the people by pretended plans of reform, promised
or proposed by the insidious enemies of all reform." The speeches at
this meeting dared any administration to assume the reins of government,
without undertaking to carry the whole bill. The Duke of Wellington
was particularly censured by the speakers: nor did his majesty himself
escape censure for yielding to domestic influence, and following the
advice of pernicious counsellors. The majority of the house of lords,
however, was more particularly attacked: it was said, they were men
who would mix blood with corruption; that they were friends of
every despotism; and that they were representatives of Miguel and of
Ferdinand, of Russian lords and German ladies. Similar meetings were
held in Westminster, Southwark, Marylebone, St. Paneras, and Paddington.
At Birmingham also, the news of Earl Grey's resignation had no sooner
arrived, than the inhabitants assembled at New-hall Hill, and a petition
was voted to the house of commons, which, in addition to a prayer that
the supplies might be stopped, contained this ominous sentence: "Your
petitioners find it declared in the bill of rights that the people of
England may have arms for their defence, suitable to their condition,
and as allowed by law; and they apprehend that this great right will
be enforced generally, in order that the people may be prepared for any
circumstances that may arise." Some of the inhabitants defied the laws
of their country by exhibiting printed placards in their windows to the
effect that no taxes would be paid until the reform bill had passed.
Similar meetings were held, similar petitions were got up, and similar
language used at Manchester, Liverpool, and in various parts of Scotland
and Ireland. The annals of England, indeed, clo not present a more
alarming period than the interval between the 9th and the 16th of May.
The language used at the numerous meetings indicated the bitterness of
the disappointment which the people, or at least a certain portion of
the people, felt, and their determination of having "the bill, the whole
bill, and nothing but the bill," be the cost what it might. At a public
meeting at Paddington, Mr. Hume told the multitude, "that military were
marching upon the metropolis; and he asked whether, when other nations
were free, they would submit to walk the streets with the brand of
slavery upon them? whether they were prepared to bend before a military
yoke?" He added that there were one hundred and fifty peers against
them, but he did not know how many women, though he heard there were
some. This allusion to the queen was immediately followed by groans; and
shortly after her majesty, while taking an airing, was grossly insulted
by the populace. In fact the king himself, at this period, learned
the true value of the shoutings which had attended him as the personal
protector of the reform bill. In one of the metropolitan unions a member
was loudly applauded for declaring that till the reform bill was passed
there was no William IV., but only a Duke of Clarence. The queen, also,
was dragged forward, as an active enemy of the bill, to be made the
theme of atrocious insult.

In the meantime the king found a difficulty in forming an
administration. As soon as he had resolved to accept the resignation
of his cabinet, he sent for Lord Lyndhurst, desiring that nobleman
to obtain the opinion of parties respecting the advice which he had
rejected, and also authorising him to adopt measures for the formation
of a new ministry. At the same time his majesty declared, that
"extensive reform was necessary, and was the express condition on
which such a ministry must be based." Lord Lyndhurst, on receiving his
majesty's commands, immediately waited upon the Duke of Wellington.
The sentiments of his grace on the subject of reform had been fully and
openly declared; but he, nevertheless, was found willing to make large
sacrifices, and to encounter any obloquy, in order to extricate his
majesty from embarrassment. He desired no office, he said, much less
that of prime-minister; yet if necessary for the king's service, he
was ready to serve in any way that might be thought fit. After some
consultation, these noble lords considered it advisable to offer the
first place to Sir Robert Peel. He was asked if he would accept the
office of prime-minister; on the clear understanding that he must carry
through a measure of extensive reform, in fulfilment of his majesty's
declaration? Sir Robert replied that by an "extensive reform" he assumed
to be understood all the principles of the bill, and that under such a
condition, it was impossible to accept office: hostile as he uniformly
had been to every plan of extensive reform, he felt that he could be of
no service to the king or to the country. Lord Lyndhurst communicated
the nature of his commission to several other influential persons, and
they were not unwilling to take subordinate situations, but no one came
forward as a leader. In the meantime Lord Ebrington's motion interposed
insurmountable difficulties in the way of negotiations. The new ministry
was of necessity to be sought for among the opponents of the bill;
office must be accepted in defiance of the lower house; and the utter
hopelessness of any change from a dissolution of parliament was evident
from the agitation already distracting the country. Lord Lyndhurst,
therefore, was compelled to inform his majesty that the commission with
which he had been entrusted had failed. The king was now reduced to the
necessity of renewing his intercourse with his former ministers. On
the 10th Earl Grey announced in the house of lords that he had that day
received a communication from his majesty, though of too recent a date
to be followed by any decided consequence. Both houses adjourned to
the 17th; but before the commons separated, a debate took place on the
presentation of the London petition, which for boldness of invective
and declamation was scarcely ever surpassed. It turned chiefly on
the supposed conduct of the Duke of Wellington, and some others, in
accepting office under the peculiar circumstances of that period. On the
17th, however, the lords had no sooner met, than the Duke of Wellington
and Lord Lyndhurst gave an explanation of their conduct in this matter.
The Duke of Wellington remarked:--"When his majesty found that he could
not consistently with his duty to the state, follow the advice of his
confidential servants, so little communication had he with men other
than his responsible advisers, that he had had recourse to a nobleman,
whose judicial functions took him almost out of the line of politics,
to inquire whether means existed, and what means, of forming an
administration on the principle of carrying into execution an extensive
reform. That nobleman communicated to me the difficulties in which his
majesty was placed, in order to ascertain how far it was in my power
to assist in extricating him from them. With this view, I thought it
my duty to institute similar inquiries of others, the rather as I was
myself as unprepared as his majesty for the advice which his ministers
had tendered, and for the consequences which had ensued from its being
rejected. On inquiry I found that there was a large number of most
influential persons not indisposed to support a government formed to
aid his majesty in resisting the advice tendered to him by his late
administration. Under this conviction I attended his majesty; and my
advice to him was, not that he should appoint me Iris minister, but
certain members of the other house of parliament. So far from seeking
office for myself, I merely named those persons I thought best qualified
for the service; adding, that, for my own part, whether I was in
office or out of office, he and those persons might depend upon my most
strenuous support. The object of this advice and tender of assistance
was to enable his majesty to form an administration upon the principle
of resisting the advice which he had just rejected. These are the first
steps of the transaction; and I believe they show that, if ever there
was an instance in which the king acted with honesty and fairness
towards his servants, and if ever there was an instance in which public
men, opposed to those servants, kept aloof from intrigue, and from the
adoption of all means except the most honourable, in promoting their own
views of the public weal, this was that individual instance; and I will
add with reference to myself, that these transactions show that, so far
from being actuated by those motives of personal aggrandizement, with
which I have been charged by persons of high station in another place,
my object was, that others should occupy a post of honour, and that for
myself I was willing to serve in any capacity, or without any official
capacity, so as to enable the crown to carry on the government." Lord
Lyndhurst, in explaining the part he had taken in the matter, bitterly
complained of being calumniated by the press, which, he said, now
reigned paramount over the legislature and the country. "As far as I am
myself concerned," he said, "I despise these calumnies. They may wound,
however, the feelings of those allied to me by the dearest ties, and so
far they are a source of pain to myself; but apart from the feelings of
others, I hold them in the utmost scorn." Several noble lords, although
they had in no way been connected with the transactions which had been
explained, declared that the conduct of the Duke of Wellington had been
high-minded and disinterested. He had been hunted down day after day
because he had dared to become minister; and it turned out that he had
neither accepted nor sought office. Earl Grey expressed his surprise
that the Duke of Wellington and Lord Lyndhurst should have indulged in
violent invective against the reform bill and ministers, and "dinned
their lordships' ears" with denunciations of the measure, and
declarations that the bill, instead of saving, would tend to the
destruction of that house and of the monarchy. He thought differently.
There were clangers, not imaginary or hypothetical, but substantial and
imminent, both to that house and to the monarchy, to be apprehended
from proceedings which tended to a collision between the hereditary and
representative branches of the constitution. He concluded by declaring
that his continuance in office must depend on his conviction of his own
ability to carry into full effect the bill on their lordships' table,
unimpaired in principle and all essential details. The Earl of Carnarvon
said, that if he could venture to make any comment on the reasons
assigned for the proceedings of ministers, he would say that they had
hurried on in their violent course, because they feared that if their
opponents were permitted to introduce their measures, not all the power
and influence of ministers could have produced a collision between the
two houses. It was his duty, as the continued day for the committee had
been fixed on his motion, now to get rid of it. He therefore moved
that "the order for the committee on the reform bill be discharged." He
added:--"Thus I leave it to other noble lords to do their dirty work."
The order was accordingly discharged.

On Friday, the 18th of May, on the assembling of the peers, the Earl of
Harewood asked Earl Grey whether it was yet settled that ministers were
to continue in office? His lordship answered, that in consequence of
having received the king's request to that effect, and in consequence
of now finding himself in a situation which would enable him to carry
through the bill unimpaired in its efficiency, he and his colleagues did
remain in office. He moved that the committee on the bill, under
these circumstances, should be taken on Monday. The Earl of Harewood
continued, that he had understood the continuance of Earl Grey in office
depended on the power he should receive to carry the reform bill--a
power which might be conferred by the creation of peers, or by the act
and will of certain lords in seceding from their opposition to the bill.
In the choice of these two evils, it was his duty to select the lesser.
He had opposed the bill on the second reading, and he would likewise
have opposed many of its details in the committee, but the wiser course
would be now to withhold further opposition to the bill, rather than
render the calamity of creating a great number of peers unavoidable.
But though he adopted this course, let it be understood that it was
by compulsion, and with a feeling that he never would again enjoy an
opportunity of uttering in that house one word in an independent form.
Bidding farewell to freedom of debate, let those who had brought this
infliction on the country be responsible for their acts when the nation
came to its senses. On the other hand, the Earl of Winchilsea, while
he admitted that the independence of the house was at an end, and that
their lordships might be pointed at with scorn, as belonging to a body
which went through the mockery of legislative functions while it was
denied all legislative power, expressed his determination still to offer
every possible opposition to the bill. Earl Grey had not yet stated in
what shape the power of carrying the bill had been conferred; and Lord
Wharncliffe, conceiving that before any peer could decide on the course
he would adopt, it was necessary to know, put the question direct
to him, whether their deliberations were to be carried on under the
immediate threat of a creation of peers? or whether it was to be
understood that a certain number of peers would absent themselves from
the house on the occasion of the discussions that might ensue upon the
bill? Earl Grey replied, "I do not feel myself called on to answer the
questions which have been put to me by the noble baron. I have already
stated to your lordships that I continue to hold office under the
expectation that the bill will be successfully carried in its future
stages through this house. I do not consider that the noble lord has any
right to call on me for any further explanation; and I will add, that
I wish to be bound only by what I state myself." Lord Wharncliffe
rejoined, that he could come to no conclusion as to what course he
should take until he saw more clearly the real position in which their
lordships were placed. The noble earl opposite had no right to call for
any statement as to the course his opponents meant to pursue when he
hesitated to communicate his own. The Earl of Carnarvon repeated Lord
Wharn-cliffe's question, whether it was intended to create peers? but
the minister replied that it was a question which ought not to be put,
and one which he would not answer. The motion for going into committee
on Monday was agreed to.

Although ministers, however, refused to give any answer as to the
intended creation of peers, it was soon known that this power was
assured to them--at least, as an alternative or an expedient. Sir
Herbert Taylor, in the name and by the authority of the king, wrote a
circular note to the opposition peers, stating his majesty's wish that
they should facilitate the passing of the bill by absenting themselves
from the house when any important part of the measure to which they
could not consent came under discussion. Such a request implied that
his majesty desired it, as the only means of avoiding the creation of
a number of peers; and the opposition lords,--that is, the
majority,--understanding the hint, were thus compelled to abandon for a
time their rights and duties as legislators. During the remainder of
the discussions on the bill, therefore, not more than between thirty or
forty attended at a time. The king and the lords were equally opposed to
this measure, but both were compelled to bend to the will of the house
of commons.

A similar announcement to that which Earl Grey made in the lords was
made in the commons by Lord Althorp. This announcement stopped another
address to the king in the house of commons, which Lord Milton intended
to have brought forward, and furnished to Sir Robert Peel an opportunity
of explaining the share he had taken in the late negotiations to form a
new administration.


REFORM BILL PASSED.

{WILLIAM IV. 1832-1833}

The committee on the bill was resumed on Monday, the 21st of May, and,
as was natural, it now passed rapidly through the upper house.
The inverted order of the schedules, taken up at Lord Lyndhurst's
suggestion, was adopted, though in a very different spirit from that
which was in the noble mover's mind. Schedule C was voted at the first
sitting up to the Tower Hamlets; and next day the clauses on the Tower
Hamlets, to which so many objections had been raised, were passed. Lord
Ellenborough wished the county of Lancashire to be divided into three
districts, each retaining two members, he conceiving that as the bill
now stood the agricultural interest of that county would be utterly
helpless; but there were only fifteen peers who ventured to vote with
him, while seventy-five adhered to the bill. The bill, in fact, passed,
with some few slight verbal alterations, on the 4th of June, one hundred
and sixty voting for it, and twenty-two against it. The bill was now
ordered back to the commons, and the amendments of their lordships
having been agreed to on the following day without any discussion
regarding their merits, the royal assent was given to the bill by
commission on the 7th of June.


IRISH AND SCOTCH REFORM BILLS PASSED.

It was easy to foresee that the English reform bill having passed,
those relating to Scotland and Ireland would be equally triumphant.
Deliberation was, in point of fact, at an end. Both bills had been read
a first time, and had awaited on the table of the house of commons the
fate of the English bill in the house of lords. The bill relating to
Scotland was read in the commons on the 21st of May, the day on which
the restored ministry resumed the committee in the lords on the English
bill. No resistance was made to the second reading, the opposition
knowing that it was hopeless, and feeling assured that this measure
must follow as part of the general scheme, all the elements of which
had triumphed in regard to England. Various amendments were moved in the
committee, but they were all rejected by large majorities, and it passed
the third reading unmutilated. In the house of lords also, as in the
commons, no opposition was made to the second reading, and it passed
that house on the 13th of July, The Irish bill called forth more
resistance than that of Scotland, though its triumph from the first
was equally certain. Mr. Lefroy moved, on its re-introduction, that it
should be read that day six months. He said, that if a reform bill
was to be passed at all, the present measure, in so far as the country
representation was concerned, was not very objectionable; but he
could discover no advantage to be derived from it in respect to the
alterations in the boroughs. Seven of these boroughs had sent reformers
to parliament, and eight possessed an open constituency. In the others
the constituency varied from twelve to ninety-four, and none of them
could be called decayed boroughs; on the contrary, they were more
flourishing than at the time when they received the franchise. Of the
one hundred Irish members, eighty-three were popularly returned. Where
then, he asked, was the necessity or expediency of the measure? Would
any rational man have deemed a reform bill necessary in England under
such circumstances? And while the bill was unnecessary, he continued,
it was also dangerous--dangerous not merely to the Protestant church of
Ireland, but to the sister church of England, and the integrity of
the empire. The fall of the Irish church would endanger the connection
between the two countries. The leader of the Catholic population in
Ireland had told them to choose reformers as the best means of opening
the way to repealers; yet it was proposed by opening the boroughs to
put them into the hands of this party--a party whose influence would be
increased to an extent that no government would have power to oppose.
The amendment was seconded by Lord Castlereagh, and supported by Messrs.
Shaw, Conolly, and Gordon, who all said that the bill would be ruinous
to the Protestant interest in Ireland. Messrs. O'Connell and Shiel
defended the bill against the objections urged by the supporters of the
amendment, but pointed out other defects, which they expressed a hope
would be remedied in the committee. For instance, the name of the
ten-pound franchise had been given to Ireland without the reality; the
Irish and English freeholders, from the nature of their tenures, and the
disproportion between their means, were in opposite positions to each
other. In respect to houses also, the franchise was too high; and,
instead of being the instrument of reform, it would be productive of
corruption. Thus Portarlington, which was formerly sold by a single
proprietor, would now be sold by one hundred members. In England, no
man was called upon to show his title unless by previous notice; but
in Ireland a scrutinising assistant-barrister examined it without any
process being-served on the man who came to vote. In Ireland, also,
half-a-crown was the sum paid for registry; in England it was a shilling
only. Was this equality? Was this union? Could this conduce to the
continuance of the union between the two countries? But while he found
so much in the bill of an objectionable nature, he would support it for
the good it would effect; he would support it because it would strike
down the corporation of Dublin, and because it would open the borough of
Belfast, whose representative had hitherto been appointed by the noble
Marquis of Donegal, like his groom or his footman. After a few words
of opposition from Sir Robert Peel, the house divided on the second
reading, and it was carried by two hundred and forty-six against one
hundred and thirty.

It was in the committee that the attacks of the Irish reformers against
the bill commenced in reality. The emancipation act had been accompanied
by the disfranchisement of the forty-shilling freeholders. Mr. O'Connell
moved that it should be an instruction to the committee to restore the
franchise to these freeholders. The Irish reform bill exhibited gross
injustice. England was to have thirty members more than had originally
been contemplated, but Ireland was not to derive any such advantage. It
was always the way when Ireland was concerned; her aid was invoked in
the battle, but when the division of the spoil came, she was forgotten.
And in the present instance insult had been added to injury. The Scotch
bill had been brought forward by a Scotch legal luminary. Was there no
Irish gentleman to whom ministers could entrust the Irish reform bill?
Ministers wished to put an end to agitation in Ireland. But how did
they set about it? By perpetrating an act of injustice, which would
perpetuate agitation. The amendment was supported by Mr. Shiel, who
contended that the restoration of the forty-shilling freeholders was
just in principle, because it would assimilate the constituency of
England and Ireland, and because it would conciliate the people of
Ireland without being detrimental to England. Ministers replied, that
if the proposed instruction was carried, it would have, the effect of
impeding, if not ultimately defeating, the measure. Mr. O'Connell's
motion was lost! by a majority-of one hundred and twenty-two against
seventy-three; and he immediately moved, as a modification of it; that
"the franchise should be restored to persons seized of an estate for
three lives, renewable for ever, of the yearly value of forty shillings,
provided that the rent did not exceed four pounds per annum, of which
one-third was to be profit, and provided also that the renewal fee did
net exceed two-pounds." This was opposed by Mr. Stanley, on the ground,
that it would create a minute subdivision of independent, property,
and by that means would also create an immense multitude of independent
voters. The motion, was not pressed to a division; and Mr. O'Connell
then took up the subject of the increase of representation in Ireland.
Of the five additional members, one was to be given to the University of
Dublin, which was now to return two members; and Mr. O'Connell and his
party objected to this arrangement, because it would strengthen the
Protestant interest. Sir Robert Heron moved as an instruction to the
committee, that the University of Dublin should continue to return
only one member. The motion was opposed by Mr. Crampton, the
solicitor-general of Ireland, who vindicated the character of the
electors of Dublin University from the attacks which the Irish reformers
made upon it. The proposal was rejected by a large majority: and Mr.
O'Connell returned to the attack by moving, as an instruction to the
committee, to extend the franchise to persons occupying freehold estates
of the yearly value of five pounds. His motion was founded on
this reasoning--that, as Ireland was a poorer country, a ten-pound
qualification in England was a twenty-pound qualification in Ireland,
and the constituency of the latter would consequently be curtailed.
In his speech, he said that the object of all parties seemed to be to
exclude the people of Ireland as much as possible from the enjoyment of
the franchise. He was justified in making this charge, when he saw two
members given to Trinity College, Dublin, in the constituency of which
it was impossible there should be a Roman Catholic voter. If the system
was acted on, the Catholic question still remained to be settled. Mr.
Stanley complained of the unreasonable conduct of Irish members, and
especially of Mr. O'Connell, who first desired alterations in the bill,
and then complained that it was no longer the same. The change in
the plan of registration, he said, had been recommended by Sir Henry
Darnel. An alteration had also been made in the leasehold from
twenty-one years to fourteen, and this was done at the instance of
Irish members. Mr. O'Connell himself had entreated ministers to omit the
fifty-pound qualification, which was complied with: but he had hardly
effected his purpose, when he turned round and accused the government
of making unfavourable alterations in the bill. Members might be
astonished, but it was fact, that he had given notice of a motion
for the restoration of a qualification which was omitted on his own
suggestion. This motion was likewise rejected; as was another, made by
Mr. Mullins, to extend the franchise in counties to leaseholders for
nineteen years, at a rent of thirty pounds. Ministers, however, yielded
something in the committee by consenting to extend the franchise to
leaseholders for twenty years, having a beneficial interest to the
amount of ten pounds. Mr. Shiel divided the house without success, to
get rid of a proviso that required ten-pound voters in boroughs to pay
all municipal taxes. The recorder of Dublin was equally unsuccessful in
a motion tending to place Irish freemen on the same footing with their
brethren in English boroughs; that is, to have their rights as freemen
perpetuated, instead of terminating with the lives of those existing,
as provided in the Irish bill Before the bill left the committee, Mr.
Dominick Browne, one of the members for the county of Mayo, proposed a
different plan for Ireland; but his proposition was not entertained by
the house. The bill passed the commons on the 18th of July, and was read
a second time in the lords on the 23rd. No division took place; but the
Duke of Wellington stated at length his objections to the measure, which
were replied to by Lord Plunkett. The bill passed through the committee
in the peers almost without discussion. The only amendment of importance
was one which had been rejected in the commons; namely, to place the
rights of freemen in boroughs on the same footing on which they stood in
the English bill, by continuing them in perpetuity instead of confining
them simply to the children of freemen born after the passing of the
bill. When the bill returned to the commons, Mr. Stanley declared that
he felt a strong repugnance to this amendment. It was, however, allowed
to stand, and by the first week of August all the three bills had
received the royal assent.


BILL TO PREVENT BRIBERY AT ELECTIONS, ETC.

Soon after, the reform bill was carried the house of commons was filled
with complaints, that, in its working, it was producing, extensive
disfranchisement among the new constituencies. It was required by the
English bill, that the intended voter should have paid up by the 20th of
July all rates and taxes, payable in the preceding April in respect
of the premises on which he claimed. That period was now past, and
the non-payers were so numerous as greatly to diminish the new
constituencies. Under these circumstances Lord Althorp, on the 7th of
August, moved for leave to bring in a bill "for allowing further time
for persons to pay the poor-rates, in pursuance of an act passed in the
present session to amend the representation of the people in England and
Wales." This was resisted on the ground that the act contained no clause
allowing it to be altered, during the present session, and that the
proposition was a breach of pledge. The house, it was said, had fully
discussed and finally passed a measure effecting a great and extensive
change in the constitution of the country, and that measure had gone
forth to the country as being the final act of those who had originated
it; yet it was now proposed to make an alteration in one of its most
essential provisions. The alteration proposed was not unreasonable in
itself; but there was danger in permitting any alteration to be made
with respect to the reform act. Who could say, if changes were to
be made, when they would stop? Lord Althorp argued that there were
precedents which would enable the house to get over the difficulty in
point of form, but as the bill was to be opposed, and as, in that case,
it could not be carried through before the 20th of August, he would
withdraw it altogether; he was the more ready to do so, because he
thought that the inconvenience had been exaggerated. The subject,
however, was taken up by Colonel Evans, who thought that a great number
of tax and rate payers entitled to vote were defaulters, and therefore
not able to enjoy their franchise. He moved a resolution, which, after
adverting to the disfranchisement likely to arise, suggested that the
mischief might be remedied by substituting for "the 6th of April," in
the 27th clause of the reform act, "the 25th of September last" for the
payment of the poor rates, and the "10th of October last" for the
payment of the assessed taxes. This motion was only supported by two
members, yet the colonel brought the matter before the house again on
the 10th of August, by moving "that an address be presented to his
majesty, praying that he will be graciously pleased to prorogue the
present, and convene another short session of parliament, to take
into consideration the unexpected disfranchisement produced by certain
restrictive clauses of the act for amending the representation of the
people in parliament." This motion was opposed by ministers, and was
not pressed to a division. It had become clear, indeed, that many of
the statements concerning the number of non-payers were without good
foundation, and therefore there was no reason for altering the clause.
About the same time objections were raised to the boundaries of
boroughs as laid down by the commissioners whom ministers had employed,
principally on the ground of the influence which, it was supposed, had
here and there been given to individuals, by adding large portions of
their lands to boroughs. It was objected, for instance, that, in the
case of Whitehaven, a rural district, comprehending thirty voters, had
been added to a borough containing three hundred. It was said that this
was done to conciliate opposition; as this district was the property of
Lord Lonsdale, it was stated, he would acquire by its junction with the
town a preponderating influence. An amendment was made to exclude it,
but ministers resisted it, and it was lost. Lord Althorp said, that
nobody who knew the state of parties would believe in these theories of
conciliation; and that Lord Lonsdale would have no more influence in
the borough than the legitimate influence to which rank and property
entitled their possessor. A similar objection was stated against the
boundary allotted to Stamford, which was followed by a similar motion of
exclusion; but it found only nineteen supporters, while one hundred and
seventy-two voted against it.

Another measure connected with the changes in the representation was a
bill brought in to amend and render more effectual the laws relating to
bribery and corruption in elections. Lord John Russell, who brought in
the bill, stated that its principal object was to subject all cases
of bribery to a more complete investigation. With that view, the bill
extended the term for presenting petitions complaining of bribery at
elections from fourteen days to two years; and provided that it would
be lawful for any person to petition the house during that period,
complaining that the election of any particular borough had been carried
by bribery and corruption. The bill also provided that where the parties
complained of undue elections in consequence of bribery, if they proved
their case, all their costs and expenses in sustaining their petition
should be defrayed by the public. Objections were urged against this
measure from both sides of the house. It was argued, that the extension
of the period for petitioning would keep members in a state of vassalage
for two years; that a new petition might be presented every week, if
it only related to a different alleged act; and that the terms which
defined what bribery was were so vague, and yet so comprehensive, that
it was impossible for a member to know whether a charge could be brought
against him or not. Some members thought that nothing but the ballot
would prevent bribery, while others suggested that every member on
entering the house should take an oath that he had neither given, nor
promised to give, or would promise hereafter, by himself, his agents,
or friends, any money, security, order, or other thing of value, or any
pecuniary fee, or reward of any kind, in consideration of any vote or
votes, by which his return to that house had been promoted or served.
The bill passed the commons; but when it came to the lords its
postponement for six months was moved by Lord Wynford, and the lord
chancellor agreeing with him as to the impossibility of carrying its
provisions into effect, the bill was thrown out.

During the discussion on the reform question, one strong objection
against the destruction of nomination-boroughs had been, that without
them there would be no certain means of members who vacated their seats
by accepting office of securing a new return. In order to obviate this
inconvenience, the Marquis of Northampton brought in a bill to repeal,
in so far as certain offices were concerned, the act of Queen Anne,
by which an acceptance of any of them vacated a member's seat. On the
motion for the second reading of this bill, the Duke of Wellington
said there could be no doubt that some measure of this description was
necessary; but it appeared to him that the present bill was only a half
measure, because it provided for only half of the inconvenience likely
to result. He also objected to the bill being brought forward in the
individual capacity of the noble marquis. As the inconvenience would
arise from a government measure, government should introduce a
remedy, and recommend it to both houses of parliament upon their own
responsibility. The lord-chancellor likewise thought that the second
reading should be delayed till the matter had been more ripely
considered. The second reading, therefore, was postponed, and, as the
end of the session approached, the bill was ultimately laid aside. The
last subject of direct reform in the representation was introduced by
Mr. Bulwer, who moved an address to the king, praying that his majesty
would give the free inhabitants of New South Wales a representative
system. He grounded their title to it on the score both of population
and taxation; but while ministers admitted that New South Wales must in
time have a representative body, they did not think the elements had yet
been formed out of which a safe constituency could be created, and the
motion was negatived.


COMMITTEES ON IRISH TITHES.

{WILLIAM IV. 1832--1833}

In the speech from the throne, on the opening of parliament, there was
this clause:--"In parts of Ireland a systematic opposition has been made
to the payment of tithes, attended in some instances with afflicting
results; and it will be one of your first duties to inquire whether it
may not be possible to effect improvements in the laws respecting this
subject, which may afford the necessary protection to the established
church, and at the same time remove the present causes of complaint."
Both houses, during this session, appointed select committees to inquire
into the collection and payment of tithes in Ireland, and the state of
the laws relating thereto. The report of the committee of the house of
lords was presented on the 16th of February, and that of the commons
on the 17th. The report stated that in different parts of Ireland
resistance had been made to the payment of tithes, by means of
organised, illegal, and in some instances armed combinations, which, if
allowed to extend themselves successfully to other districts, would be
applied to other objects, and ultimately subvert the dominion of the
law, and endanger the peace and security of society. In many districts
the report further stated, where resistance had been made to the payment
of tithes, the clergy had been reduced to the greatest distress; and in
order to obviate this, the committee recommended that his majesty should
be empowered to advance to the incumbent, where tithes or compositions
had been illegally withheld, or to his representatives, sums not
exceeding the amount of the arrears due for the tithes of the year 1836,
proportioned to the income of each, according to a scale diminishing as
their incomes increased. It further recommended that as a security for
repayment of the sums so advanced, his majesty should be empowered to
levy, under the authority of a law to be passed for that purpose, the
amount of arrears due for the tithes of the year 1831, without prejudice
to the claims of the clergy for any arrear that might be due for a
longer period. Where the arrears were due in a compounded parish, the
sum to be advanced was to be regulated by the composition, and where
there was no special agreement, by an average of the produce of the
tithe for the years 1827, 1828, and 1829. As the crown was to become
entitled to the arrears, it was recommended that the attorney-general
should be empowered to sue for them, either by petition in chancery or
exchequer, or by civil bill at the county quarter-session. On the tithe
system, the committee stated that they had seen sufficient to satisfy
them, "that with a view to serve both the interests of the church and
the lasting welfare of Ireland, a permanent change of system will be
required: that such a change, to be safe and satisfactory, must involve
a complete extinction of tithes, including those belonging to lay
impropriators, by commuting them for a charge upon land, or an exchange
for or investment in land, so as effectually to secure the revenues of
the church, so far as relates to tithes, and at the same time to remove
all pecuniary collisions between the clergymen and the tithe-payer,
which, at present, were unavoidable." On the 8th of March, the Marquis
of Lansdowne in the upper house, and Mr. Stanley in the commons, moved
resolutions adopting and embodying the recommendations of the report. In
the lords no opposition was offered to them, but in the commons it did
not pass so readily. Mr. Stanley said that as he intended to state the
whole plan which government had in contemplation, with all its details,
he should move for that purpose that the house should resolve itself
into a committee on the report; a course which he deemed advisable,
because it would put it into his power to give every explanation which
might be required, and to take the opinion of the committee separately
on each of the resolutions. This motion was sternly opposed by the Irish
members. Mr. Brownlow led the attack, by maintaining that the report
was too partial and imperfect to be made the subject of consideration in
committee. He moved "that the debate be adjourned, until the committee
had gone into a full inquiry into the subject of tithes, and the
appropriation of church property in Ireland, and until the evidence
and report of the committee came before parliament." In support of the
amendment, Mr. Shiel said that the Irish members did not oppose the
resolutions: they only said, "Wait for the final report, and do not
decide on a document resting on one-sided evidence." Catholics, he
said, had been excluded from the committee, and only one out of eighteen
Catholic witnesses had been examined. Was this just, or fair dealing?
It was as if a jury were desired to retire on the closing of the
plaintiff's case. They find their verdict; judgment is given; and then
the defendant was desired to proceed with her case. If the committee had
confined themselves to the recommendation of assisting the clergy, the
Irish members would not have complained; but while they came with a
purse of gold for the church, they also came with a rod of iron for the
people. Mr. Shiel proceeded next to discuss the plan which was supposed
to be unknown, in doing which he discovered the true objection of the
Irish members to it, namely, that the Protestant church of Ireland was
still to be preserved. Other Irish members urged the same objections;
and added, that if every thing else in the supposed plan were right, it
was wrong to pay the arrears to the clergy, and then ask repayment by
coercive measures. Lord Ebrington, who had been on the committee, and
concurred in its report, now sided with the Irish members. Sir Robert
Peel said that the discussion on the anticipated propositions was
foreign to the question before the house. The question was, whether the
propositions should be explained now, or after the house had gone into
a committee. Pie thought that the latter was the course most conformable
to the practice of the house; and by supporting a motion to that
effect, no member pledged himself in the least to the proposition of the
government. Lord Althorp and Mr. Stanley complained of the course the
Irish members had taken in commenting on propositions of which they knew
nothing; and on a division the amendment of the Irish members was lost
by an overwhelming majority.

The committee was delayed till the 18th, on which day Mr. Stanley moved
a series of resolutions similar to those which had been agreed to by the
lords. The first of these resolutions was, "That it appears to the house
that in several parts of Ireland, an organised and systematic opposition
has been made to the payment of tithes, by which the law has been
rendered unavailing, and many of the clergy of the established church
have been reduced to great distress." Mr. Stanley entered at great
length into the evidence which proved both parts of this resolution. It
was quite clear from the evidence that a system of opposition had been
established in Ireland to the payment of tithes, which could not be
overcome by ordinary means. Every plan had been adopted by which
the operations of the law might be traversed. Tithe-proctors and
process-servants were violently assailed; impediments were interposed to
prevent the seizure and sale of cattle; and, in a word, every system
of determined and organised opposition was manifested that could be
displayed by a whole population acting as one man against the payment
of a claim legally due. Having proved the truth of the first resolution,
Mr. Stanley proceeded to the second, which provided means of relief.
It read thus:--"That, in order to afford relief to the distress, it is
expedient that his majesty should be empowered, upon the application of
the lord-lieutenant, or other chief governor or governors of Ireland, to
direct that there be issued from the consolidated fund such sums as
may be required for this purpose. That the sums so issued shall be
distributed by the lord-lieutenant, or other chief governor or governors
of Ireland, by and with the advice of the privy-council, in advances
proportioned to the incomes of the incumbents of benefices wherein
the tithes, or tithe composition lawfully due may have been withheld,
according to a scale diminishing as the incomes of such incumbents
increase." To this resolution Mr. Stanley said that he did not
anticipate any objection, inasmuch as it was from no fault of the clergy
that the resistance, and the consequent distress had arisen. He then
proceeded to the third resolution, which provided for the reimbursement
of the sums advanced:--"That, for the more effectual vindication of the
authority of the law, and as a security for the repayment of the sums to
be advanced, his majesty may be empowered to levy, under the authority
of an act to be passed for this purpose, the amount of arrears for the
tithes or tithe-composition of the whole or any part of the year 1831,
without prejudice to the claims of the clergy for any arrear which may
be due for a longer period; reserving, in the first instance, the amount
of such advances, and paying over the remaining balance to the legal
claimants." The last resolution pledged the house to an alteration of
the existing tithe system on some principle of commutation, though Mr.
Stanley said he was not prepared to state the nature of the change.
Those who dissented from the resolutions consisted chiefly of the Irish
members, and, singular enough, their opposition was chiefly confined
to the last resolution. This was, it was said, to introduce a change of
system, but it implied that the tithe was still to be a fund available
to the established church. It was said to be unjust to demand
extraordinary powers for the execution of a law acknowledged to be bad
and mischievous, and that every renewed attempt to recover tithes by
coercion would only hasten the ruin of the church establishment in
Ireland. Some adjustment must be made by which the church property
should be applied to the support of the three prominent sects in
Ireland, instead of its being bestowed exclusively on one, which only
comprehended about a third of the population. It was admitted at the
same time that it was right to relieve the clergy who were suffering;
but it was asserted that the resolutions held out no hope of any
substantial amendment of the existing state of things. Mr. Shiel argued
that the last resolution did not pledge the house not to appropriate
church property as it might deem fit, and insinuated that this was
what the ministry meant, though they could not venture to speak it
out plainly. Sir Robert Peel supported the plan of the ministry, for,
although hostile, he said, on general principles, to pledges that
the house would do something at a future period, he thought that the
interests of religion and the Protestant church required that the
present case should be made an exception. As to the proposal to delay
the question till the committee should have given a full report, he
deemed it unnecessary and mischievous. If the spirit of combination was
to be checked, it should be so at once; it would be true mercy to
check it as soon as possible, for any delay would only add wings to
its already rapid progress. The first resolution was agreed to finally
without a division. On the second, Mr. Hunt divided the house, as he did
not think the distress of the clergy in Ireland was such as to warrant
money being taken out of the pockets of the people of this country for
their relief. He was, however, only supported by eleven members, while
eighty-six voted for the resolution. The third then passed without a
division, and an amendment on the fourth was negatived without being put
to the vote, so that the whole were carried. The bill was brought in
to be read a second time on the 6th of April, when the Irish opposition
pressed for a delay on the ground that it was inconsistent with sound
policy to carry through this coercive measure before introducing the
other measure for the change or extinction of tithes; that if the
arrangements regarding the latter were complicated and required delay,
that was the best reason for delaying the former, and that Mr. Stanley,
the Irish secretary, ought to take advantage of the Easter recess, then
approaching, to pay a visit to Ireland. Ministers resisted all delay,
however, and the second reading was carried by a majority of one hundred
and nineteen against twenty-one. It was read a third time, without much
discussion, on the 16th of April; and in the house of lords, where the
resolutions had been agreed to, the bill was passed without opposition.

The tithe-committees still continued their investigations, and on the
25th of June Mr. Stanley stated to the house of commons the measures
which ministers intended to recommend for the final settlement of the
questions connected with tithes. Three bills were to be introduced:
the first, to make the composition act permanent and compulsory, and to
render it at the same time more equitable and effective in some of its
details; the second, constituting the bishop and beneficed clergy of
each diocese into a corporation for the purpose of receiving the tithes
for the whole body, and dividing them for their common benefit in the
proportion to which the respective parties would be entitled: and the
third, providing for a commutation of the tithe on the same principle as
the land-tax redemption in England, or the redemption of quit-rents in
Ireland--that is, that the party liable to the charge might redeem
it, and the money thus paid for redemption would go to a fund as
a provision for the clergy in the proportions to which they were at
present entitled. Mr. Stanley explained the principles of these three
bills at great length; but stated that it was not intended to carry all
of them through the house at so late a period of the session. And
this, he continued, was not necessary, as the first and second were
independent of the third. He moved therefore for leave to bring in
a bill for making the tithe-composition act compulsory, and the
composition permanent, and another for establishing the ecclesiastical
corporations. Subsequently the latter of these was delayed, and the
composition bill only pressed on. The motion for this was opposed by Mr.
J. Grattan, who moved as an amendment the following resolutions:--"That
it is essential to the peace of Ireland that the system of tithes in
that country should be extinguished, not in name only, but in substance,
and unequivocally: That in coming to this resolution we recognise the
rights of persons having vested interests, and declare that it is the
duty of parliament to provide for those persons by making them a just
compensation: That we also recognise the liability of property in
Ireland to contribute to a fund for supporting and promoting religion
and charity; but that such may and ought to be quite different in the
mode of collection, and much lighter in effect than that raised by the
system of tithes: That we are also of opinion that the mode of levying
and the application of such fund and its distribution ought to be left
to the decision of a reformed parliament." As the session was drawing
near to a close, the opposition seemed to entertain hopes of rendering
the measure abortive by mere opposition. Ministers were first compelled
to adjourn the debate from the 3rd of July to the 10th, and on the 10th
it was found necessary to adjourn it again to the 13th. On that day,
after stern opposition from the Irish members, and especially Mr.
O'Connell, who descanted in his usual strain on the "insulting contempt
with which all Irish affairs were treated," a division took place on Mr.
Grattan's resolutions, which were rejected by a large majority, and then
the bill passed the second reading without opposition, and the house
went into committee. Mr. Stanley in opening the ministerial propositions
had adverted to the payment of church-cess and church-rates by
Catholics, and expressed an opinion that they might be got rid of by
a proper application of the first-fruits. Mr. Shiel moved that "the
committee should be instructed to recite in the preamble of the bill,
that the tithe composition should be extended, with the view to the
levying of first-fruits according to their real value, and to such
future appropriation of them to the purposes of religion, education,
and charity, as, after making a due provision for the maintenance of
the church, should to parliament seem proper." Mr. Shiel said that the
preamble already set forth that the bill was to effect a commutation.
The government, however, ought not to stop there: they had declared that
they intended to relieve the people from the church-rate, by levying
their first-fruits to their full extent, and it was their object to
ascertain the full amount of tithes through Ireland in order to tax the
church. The committee, also, had reported that the people ought to be
relieved in this particular: wherefore then was it not set forth in
the preamble? They should be embodied in the bill, and the legislature
should give an earnest of their determination to rescue the Irish
nation from the most odious imposition in the annals of ecclesiastical
taxation, the erection of temples with which the people had no concern.
Mr. Stanley, in reply, admitted that he agreed in the principle that
the fund arising from the first-fruits should be made available for the
repair and erection of churches. When asked, however, "Why not say
in the preamble of this bill that there should be an abolition of
church-cess and rates for the future?" he said he was not prepared to go
to that extent. If he consented to the introduction of these words
into the preamble, he should be doubtless told that church-rates were
abolished, and that the people of Ireland so understood it. He did not
wish, he said, to declare that to be the object of the bill which was
not its object, however it might be likely to be effected by the
passing of the bill. On a division Mr. Shiel's motion was rejected by
seventy-nine to eighteen. The bill now proceeded without further delay,
and was passed by the commons and the lords. On the second reading in
the upper house the Duke of Wellington expressed a wish that it should
pass unanimously, he believing it to be the commencement of a series of
measures which had the pacification of Ireland for their object.


FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.

As the reform bill and the management of Ireland were the great business
of this session, matters of trade did not occupy much attention
in parliament. The chancellor of the exchequer made his financial
statements on the 27th of July, when it appeared that in the quarter of
the year ending on the 5th of January, there had been a deficiency of
£700,000, making the revenue of that quarter fall short of the estimate
by no less a sum than £1,200,000; ministers having calculated on a
surplus of £500,000. The revenue in the year 1830, the chancellor of the
exchequer said, was £50,056,616, while the expenditure was £47,142,943,
leaving a surplus of £2,913,673. The expenditure of 1831 ending in 1832
was within £19,664 of that of 1830; but this equality did not proceed
from an equality of votes in the two years, because in the latter
year there arose, from the reduction of four per cents., a saving of
£777,443. After entering into minute particulars of the receipts
and expenditure, with the savings which government had effected, the
chancellor of the exchequer said, that upon the whole there was a
decrease of income in 1831, as compared with 1830, of £3,682,176. From
this, if the surplus, which would have accrued if the income had
been equal to the expenditure in that year, that was £2,933,319, were
deducted, there would be an excess of expenditure in 1831 over the
income amounting to £698,857. The state of the revenue, therefore,
in the commencement of 1832, was, that instead of having a surplus of
£2,913,673, as in the commencement of 1831, the expenditure of 1831
being £19,646 below that of 1830, there was a falling off to the amount
he had already shown; and the real excess of expenditure over income in
1831 was the sum of £698,857. Lord Althorp attributed this deficiency
chiefly to the reduction of taxation in 1830. The whole reduction of
taxation in 1831 amounted to £4,780,000. From this, if £3,364,412 were
deducted as the loss on customs and excise, there would be a balance
of £1,414,588; a clear proof that the resources of the country had
increased by nearly a million and a half in the consumption of articles
not affected by taxation. He owned he had been too sanguine in the
calculation he had made of increased consumption from reduced taxation,
but it was satisfactory to observe that, notwithstanding the great
reduction of taxation, the deficiency in the revenue had been so small.
He felt it right to state, he continued, that the deficiency at the
end of the year was increased in the April quarter, the amount in
that quarter being £1,240,413. Finding this deficiency his majesty's
ministers had endeavoured to meet it, not by an increase of taxation,
but by a reduction of expenditure. They had lowered the estimates by
more than £2,000,000, and had reduced official salaries and appointments
to the utmost of their power. In two years, the reductions they had made
in salaries and officers amounted to £334,353. Lord Althorp next entered
into a statement of the gradual decrease of the surplus, and then
proceeded to the estimates for the year ending-April, 1833. He
calculated that the expenditure of the year ending April, 1833, would
be £45,696,376, which would be £2,162,051 less than that for the year
ending in April, 1832. He next proceeded to give a comparative estimate
of the income as it was in April, 1832, and as he calculated it to be
for 1833. From the various items he expected a total of £46,470,000;
deduct from that £45,696,376, as the amount of expenditure, and it left
a surplus for the year ending in April, 1833, of £773,624. Against this,
however, was to be set the deficiency of 1832, amounting to £1,240,413,
and take from that sum the surplus of £773,624 for 1833, and it would
leave a deficiency on the two years of £466,789. Mr. Goulburn contended
that, according to the noble lord's statement, there would be a
deficiency at the end of the current year, on account of 1832, although
in this year there was a surplus. After a few words from Sir Robert
Peel, however, who questioned the reality of the reductions made by
government, the financial arrangements were carried without opposition.


COMMITTEE ON THE CHARTER OF THE EAST INDIA COMPANY, ETC.

On the 27th of January the president of the board of control moved the
appointment of a committee upon the affairs of the East India Company,
and to inquire into the state of trade between Great Britain, the
East Indies, and China. This was, in fact, only the reappointment of
a committee which had sat during previous sessions; but the president
hinted that as the charter would expire in April, 1834, and the East
India Company had declined to make itself a party to the discussion,
it would be necessary that the government should take a more direct
management of the question, though without intimating its intentions, so
as not to disappoint expectations. It would be necessary to carry
this proposal into effect, he said, to have a considerable number of
sub-committees, at least six or seven, each taking a separate branch of
the inquiry. In the East India House, and in the board of control, the
business was divided into six departments, each division having its
separate functionaries; and he proposed, therefore, that there should be
at least six sub-committees, each taking one of these departments. As it
was necessary, he continued, to provide for the absence of members,
and as five or six members would be necessary in each subcommittee, he
should propose that there should be at least forty-eight or forty-nine
in the committee. The present committee, he added, would have this
advantage, that, the subject was not entirely new. A large mass of
testimony had been obtained; and though the evidence had not been
systematically collected, yet the materials were in preparation, and the
committee would be supplied with them. In addition to this the board
of control had for some time been preparing for the discussion, officers
having been employed in classifying the evidence laid before both
houses, and in separating the different branches of the evidence. The
committee was appointed without opposition. Subsequently, the chancellor
of the exchequer proposed the appointment of "a committee of secrecy,
to inquire into, and report upon the expediency of renewing the charter
of the Bank of England; and also on the existing system of banking by
banks of issue in England and Wales." The circumstance which gave rise
to this motion was the renewal of the charter with the Bank of England.
As the occasion of a renewal of that charter had always been considered
the proper time for an inquiry into the banking system, and had been
looked forward to by the public as a proper season for taking the
principles of the Bank of England into consideration, therefore the
proposition was made. In making the proposal, the chancellor of the
exchequer said that he trusted the house would agree in the propriety of
making it a committee of secrecy, in order to prevent any discussions
in that house upon the subject pending the inquiry; on such a question,
involving the money transactions of the country, nothing could be more
objectionable than these discussions. As to the questions which the
committee would have to consider, they would have first to decide
whether the charter should be renewed, and then, in case of renewal,
whether any, and what exclusive privileges should be given to the Bank.
Another question for their consideration would be the existing system of
banking with reference to banks of issue; and they would likewise have
to consider the Bank of England in its quality of banker to the state.
It was not, however, intended that the committee should go into the
question of the currency; it was to confine itself to banking, properly
so called. But one exception to this would be found in the one-pound
notes: it would be impossible to exclude that question from the
consideration of the committee, if they should consider it was necessary
to enter upon it. It was thought by some members that it would be better
to restrict the committee from entering into that question, and by
others that it would be better to delay the whole subject till a new
parliament. In substance, in fact, it was so delayed, for, although
a committee was appointed, it had made no report when parliament was
prorogued and subsequently dissolved.


THE AFFAIRS OF THE WEST INDIES.

In the latter part of 1831, a violent hurricane had occasioned a great
deal of injury in Barbadoes, St. Vincent, and St. Lucia. During this
session ministers proposed, and parliament agreed, to grant his majesty
£100,000 for the relief of the sufferers in those islands. Jamaica was
soon after visited by a calamity of a different kind, though not less
destructive. About the end of 1831, a formidable insurrection, which had
been organised for some time, broke out among the slaves, particularly
in the parishes of Trelawney, Portland, and St. James. The negroes on
several estates began at first to refuse to go to their work, and then
they assembled together in large bodies, and marched over the country,
spreading devastation around them. The destruction which they caused
was not confined to the whites; the houses and small settlements of free
people of colour were attacked equally with the large plantations of
the white inhabitants. It was found necessary on the 20th of December
to proclaim martial law, and the militia of the different parishes was
called out. Sir Willoughby Cotton also marched to Montego Bay, with
between two and three hundred troops. Two engagements took place between
the negroes and the militia, in both of which the former were routed.
They again made head in some quarters; but at length the troops
succeeded in dispersing them; and offers of pardon being issued to all
but the ringleaders, the greater part of them returned to their masters.
Of the ringleaders, some were shot after trial by courts-martial; and
by the middle of January the danger was over, though some of the negroes
still remained out, and martial law was not recalled. The insurrection
was ascribed by the whites partly to the vague notions existing among
the negroes by the orders in council intended to effect the amelioration
of their condition, and partly to the arts or imprudence of sectarian
missionaries. A belief had been produced among the former that their
liberty had been granted by the king; and it was said that they had
been encouraged in these ideas by some of the missionaries. This
unfortunately gave rise to the work of retaliation. At Montego Bay.
Falmouth, Lucia, and Savanna-la-Mer, the chapels of the Baptists were
razed to the ground by the mob, probably at the instigation of the
planters. A Baptist and Moravian missionary were arrested on the charge
of exciting the insurrection, but nothing was found to criminate them.
But apart from the effect which the orders in council might have had
in misleading the negroes, they were regarded by the colonists as an
unnecessary and mischievous interference with the rights of property,
and even with their political privileges. The orders appointed
slave-protectors to attend to the rights of negroes against their
own masters, fixed the hours of labour, and contained various other
regulations, all deemed useful, and intended to prepare the way for
a general emancipation. These orders were considered in both sets of
islands as dangerous incitements to turbulence among the negroes,
and ruinous to the property of planters. There were discontent and
irritation everywhere against the government at home; and in the
colonies which had legislative assemblies it was plainly spoken out by
resolutions and petitions. Nor were the proprietors at home silent on
the occasion. On the 6th of April the West-India mercantile body of
London presented a protest against the order in council to the secretary
of state. This was followed by a public meeting of persons interested
in the colonies, where it was resolved to petition the house of lords,
praying, "That a full and impartial parliamentary inquiry should be
instituted for the purposes of ascertaining the laws and usages of the
colonies, the condition of the slaves, the improvements that had been
made in that condition, and what further steps could be taken for the
amelioration of that condition consistently with the best interests of
the slaves themselves, and with the rights of private property." This
petition was presented on the 17th of April, by the Earl of Harewood,
and the prayer of their petition was granted. Mr. Buxton, on the 24th of
May, made a motion on the other side of the question. He moved: "That a
select committee be appointed to consider and report upon the measures
expedient to be adopted for properly effecting the extinction of slavery
throughout the British dominions at the earliest period compatible with
the safety of all classes." Lord Althorp objected to this motion as too
unqualified, and he wished Mr. Buxton to add the words, "in conformity
with the resolutions of 15th of May, 1823." To this Mr. Buxton would not
consent, and Lord Althorp then moved them as an amendment on the
motion, and they were carried by a large majority. These measures
were subsequently followed by pecuniary relief to those who had lost
property. The sum of £100,000, which had been granted to the sufferers
from the hurricane in Barbadoes, St. Vincent, and St. Lucia, was
raised to £1,000.000, and extended to the sufferers in Jamaica by the
insurrection. In addition to this, the sum of £58,000 was granted to be
applied in giving aid in regard to the internal expenses to the crown
colonies, which had adopted the orders in council, and had carried the
same into effect.


PROROGATION OF PARLIAMENT.

Parliament was prorogued by his majesty in person on the 16th of August.
On the great question of the session his majesty remarked:--"The
matters which you have had under consideration have been of the first
importance; and the laws in particular which have been passed for
the reforming the representation of the people have occupied, as
was unavoidable, the greatest portion of your time and attention. In
recommending this subject to your consideration, it was my object, by
removing the just causes of complaint, to restore general confidence
in the legislature, and to give additional security to the settled
institutions of the state. This object will, I trust, be found to have
been accomplished." Ireland was still in a disturbed state, on which
his majesty remarked:--"I have still to lament the continuance of
disturbances in Ireland, notwithstanding the vigilance and energy
displayed by my government there, in the measures which it has taken
to repress them. The laws which have been passed in conformity with
my recommendation at the beginning of the session, with respect to the
collection of tithes, are well calculated to lay the foundation of a new
system, to the completion of which the attention of parliament, when it
again assembles, will of course be directed. To this necessary work my
best assistance will be given, by enforcing the execution of the
laws, and by promoting the prosperity of a country blessed by Divine
Providence with so many natural advantages. As conducive to this
subject, I must express the satisfaction which I have felt at the
measures adopted for extending generally to my people in that kingdom
the benefits of education." At the close of his majesty's speech the
lord-chancellor said, that it was his majesty's royal will and pleasure
that parliament be prorogued to Tuesday the 16th of October next, to be
then holden, and this parliament is accordingly prorogued to Tuesday the
16th day of October next.


GENERAL ELECTION.

{WILLIAM IV. 1832-1833}

After parliament was prorogued, the great objects of public attention
were the registration of the new constituency under the reform bill, and
other preparations for a general election, which was to follow as soon
as the registration was completed. The registration, which was conducted
very quietly, having been completed, parliament, which had been
prorogued by commission on the 16th of October, was dissolved on the 3rd
of December, and the first general election under the reform act took
place. The writs were made returnable on the 29th of January, 1833. As
regards the machinery of the act, it appeared to work more smoothly than
had been anticipated. Generally speaking, in the most populous places,
the polling was concluded within the two days allowed by the act. Less
time and opportunity were allowed for bribery, and the disturbances
which used to arise from drunkenness and profligacy in a great measure
ceased. As regards the candidates which the machinery of the act
produced, there was a great dislocation of old connexions and
previous interests. There were three parties in the field: ministerial
candidates; Tories, now called Conservatives; and the Radicals, who
have been aptly termed "the apostles of pledges." The elections were
generally in favour of the ministerial candidates, or at least of
candidates who professed the same general views, and declared their
adherence to a reforming ministry. This was natural, for in almost all
the boroughs success depended on the newly created electors, who could
scarcely refuse their votes to that party by whose means they had
procured the right of voting. The Whigs were most successful in
Scotland: out of fifty-three representatives elected in that portion of
the empire, not more than twelve were Conservatives; nor could half that
number be termed "apostles of pledges." In Ireland, however, the Whigs
were not so successful. O'Connell had denounced the ministers, even
while the reform bill was in progress, as acting with insult and
injustice towards Ireland in the measure of change meted out to her; and
the refusal to abolish the Protestant established church in Ireland
had converted him and his adherents into declared enemies. All their
energies, therefore, were employed to return members who would either
drive ministers from the helm, or drive them to sacrifice the church,
and repeal the union. The consequence of his agitation was, that, while
Mr. O'Connell was himself elected for Dublin, he brought over with him
when parliament met some half-dozen of his own immediate relations,
besides various demagogical dependents, as the representatives of
Ireland. O'Connell's manners and language on this occasion were violent
in the extreme. In a letter "To the Reformers of Great Britain," he even
ventured to put forth articles of impeachment against the ministers, and
he went so far as to offer to coalesce with the Orangemen in order to
defeat them. The result of his agitation was that, by his exertions and
influence, coupled with that of the minor demagogues of Ireland, the
number of Radicals, or "Repealers" was greatly increased.


RESIGNATION OF THE SPEAKER.

As the end of last session was approaching, Mr. Manners Sutton, who had
filled the speaker's chair in six successive parliaments, announced his
intended resignation. His chief reason appears to have been that
the next parliament would consist of many new faces; and would be
differently constituted to those in which he had presided. All parties,
however, received his announcement with regret; and Lord Althorp moved,
Mr. Goulburn seconded, and the house voted by acclamation the usual
resolution of thanks in such cases. An address was also voted to the
king, praying his majesty to confer some signal mark of his favour on
the speaker; and this was carried into effect by granting to Mr. Sutton
£4000 a-year, to be reduced one-half if he accepted office under the
crown of equal value, and £3000 a-year to his son on his demise.


STATE OF IRELAND.

This year witnessed the disaffection of all parties in Ireland. Towards
the conclusion of the preceding year a systematic opposition to
tithes had been organised, and the repeal of the union had been openly
advocated. Ministers, doubtless, conceived that the reform bill would
conciliate both the agitators and their followers; but in this they
were mistaken. The reform bill, indeed, gave rise to new sources
of discontent. The Protestants lost all confidence therefrom in the
government; and they very naturally felt inclined to have recourse,
for means of defence, to the same instruments which the Catholics
used against them. They were surrounded by Catholic bands, inclined to
pillage and murder, and it was no wonder that they felt irritated by
a measure which appeared to give licence to the lawless. A meeting
of Protestant noblemen and gentlemen, held in Dublin, put forth a
manifesto, enumerating the various grievances of which they thought
themselves entitled to complain, and calling upon all their brethren
to be vigilant and true to their own interests. The example of this
assembly was followed in many parts of the country, and addresses
were voted by numerous meetings to the king. In one of these addresses
dissatisfaction and alarm was expressed at the spirit that appeared to
influence the councils and direct the measures of the Irish government.
Unconstitutional and mischievous associations, it was stated, had been
suffered to be formed and continued, the efforts of which were directed
to usurp the power of government, and destroy the civil and religious
institutions of the country; and these associations, instead of being
suppressed, were allowed to take place even in the metropolis, while
the instigators of them were rewarded with favour and confidence. This
address also expressed strong opinions on the reform bill. It would
transfer, it was said, to the Catholics and Catholic clergy an
overwhelming influence in the representation; that the boroughs,
whose franchise was to be taken from the Protestant corporations and
transferred to a larger constituency, had been incorporated for the
express purpose of maintaining, by a Protestant constituency, the
connexion between the two countries; and that the measure in progress
could have no other effect than to vest the dominion of Ireland in the
Catholics. On the other hand, the reform bill did not give satisfaction
to the Catholics; it gave much, but it did not give all that they
desired, or all that was necessary to the completion of their schemes.
Their object was ascendancy. Popery could not retain its glories in
Ireland, or the Protestant church be destroyed, so long as their fate
depended on a Protestant parliament. The union must be repealed; and
unless Ireland sent into the house of commons a large body of Catholic
repealers, there was no chance of such a consummation. Hence it was that
Mr. O'Connell attacked the Irish bill with such bitterness; it did not
make a larger addition to the representatives of Ireland, and it did not
sink the qualification to a scale sufficiently low to ensure the return
of all repealers to the reformed parliament. These "defects of the
bill," therefore, supplied the demagogues with new sources of agitation.
The people were told that this pretended reform was an insult; that they
had received only a small portion of the justice that was due to them;
and that they must still offer unyielding opposition to a government
which granted only a part of their demands.

Meanwhile the tithe question became & fruitful source of discontent and
bloodshed. A petition was entrusted to Mr. O'Connell to the house of
commons against the Protestant church, which, while it announced in
plain language their own wishes, gave direct encouragement to violence
and outrage. The different counties, in fact, from the agitation of the
demagogues, presented one scene of growing lawlessness and crime. The
king's speech was even made to foster this spirit of insubordination. It
had recommended the consideration of the tithe question in parliament;
and the Irish Catholics construed this into a condemnation of the tax.
Looking upon the tithes, therefore, as already denounced by the king
and the parliament, they thought they were justified in resisting
the payment of them. Everyman refused to pay; and threats, arson, and
murder, were directed against all who in any way connected themselves
with the payment, or collection of tithes, whether as clergyman,
proctor, policeman, or payer. Recourse was even had to intimidation
by public proclamation; chapel doors were desecrated by placards
threatening death and destruction to all who should pay tithes. Thus
instructed at the very sanctuary where peace alone should have been
taught, the ignorant and misguided peasantry everywhere committed acts
of violence and outrage. The premises of the tithe-payer were reduced to
ashes, and his cattle were houghed, or scattered over the country, or,
as in Carlow, hunted over precipices. Moreover, scarcely a week
elapsed in which a proctor, or a process-server, or a constable, or
a tithe-payer, were not murdered. An archdeacon of Cashel was even
murdered in broad daylight, while several persons who were ploughing in
the field where the act was committed, either would not, or dared not
interfere. Neither life nor property were safe; and in the beginning of
February the Irish government found it necessary to have recourse to the
peace-preservation act, and to proclaim certain baronies in the county
of Tipperary to be in a state of disturbance. This, however, had no
effect; large bodies of men everywhere openly defied the law, and roamed
about the county, compelling landlords to sign obligations to reduce
their rents, and to pay no tithes. They even compelled some farmers
to give up their farms and their houses, and, in some instances, they
committed the most atrocious cruelties. An end was put not only to
the payment of tithe, but to the payment of rent; and the terror which
prevailed on every hand acted as a shield to the offenders. In fact, it
was considered a crime to be connected with any attempt to execute the
law against the insurgents, and to betray any activity in preserving
order was to become a marked man; such a man was sure of being made
the victim of open violence, or secret assassination. Such an extensive
combination had been entered into to resist the payment of tithes, and
to protect all who might be implicated, that the ends of justice could
not be attained. Jurors were in danger of losing property and life; and
at Kilkenny the attorney-general even found it necessary to delay the
trials.

Government, as the year advanced, filled the disturbed districts with
troops and an augmented constabulary force; but no approach was made to
the restoration of order. The magistrates of the county of Kilkenny made
an unanimous application to the Irish government for stronger measures
to meet the crisis; but the lord-lieutenant stated in his answer, that,
from circumstances which had taken place, he had no expectation left of
any appeal to the law under the existing excitement proving effectual.
He sent, indeed, into that county three additional stipendiary
magistrates, and one hundred additional policemen; but this was
ineffectual: crime still prevailed, and resistance was successfully
made to the payment of tithes. In the meantime, the agitators and their
political unions, while they affected to deplore the perpetration of
the outrages which were every day occurring, did not cease to address to
their countrymen the same exciting language in which they had hitherto
indulged, and to devise new schemes and combinations for open resistance
to the law. It was quite evident, indeed, that they were at the bottom
of all the mischief that was afloat. It is true, they did not recommend
openly murder and arson, and that they preached passive resistance; but
they called upon every man to refuse payment of tithes, and in that call
was involved disobedience to the laws. Dublin was the seat of most
of the mischief going forward. From thence the agitators continued to
describe Ireland to its inhabitants as the slave of England, and to
denounce the existence of tithe. The remedy of the tithe-owner was
distraint; but in a few instances only could a sale be carried into
effect, and the clergy were at length compelled to give up all attempts
to enforce their rights, the more especially as the arrears, if the
measures proposed by ministers were carried, would become debts due to
government. Where-ever a sale was effected, all those connected with it
were objects of vengeance. Thus, in Kildare, a farmer who had purchased
some distrained cattle, was obliged to throw up his farm and leave
the country. The opposition against the payment of tithe was directed
against the government as well as the clergy. Its intention was to drive
ministers, if possible, to recommend and enforce their abolition, by
rendering the recovery of them impracticable. Anti-tithe meetings were
held in every part of Ireland, and the greater part of the country was
involved in one huge conspiracy. During the year government seemed to
think it time to try whether the law could not reach the tumultuous
assemblies of the conspirators. A circular was addressed to the Irish
magistracy, directing them to disperse all meetings collected in such
numbers as to produce alarm and endanger peace, as distinguished by
banners, inscriptions, or emblems, which tended to disturbance, or to
throw contumely on the law. This circular was denounced by Mr. O'Connell
as illegal, though he advised that it should be obeyed. Several large
meetings were dispersed by the military, headed by a magistrate; but
where the meeting was strictly parochial, no opposition was offered to
their proceedings. It was this spirit of lawlessness which gave rise to
the Irish tithe-bill of this session. The passing of that bill neither
mitigated the discord which everywhere prevailed, nor diminished the
crimes which that discord produced. The people had been taught to demand
as their right, and to expect as a concession, the annihilation of
tithe; but they found that the crown, by the Irish tithe-bill, had
become creditor instead of the clergymen. They had now, therefore, to
struggle with the crown. Proceedings were adopted by the law-officers
of government to enforce payment of arrears, and at the same time it
was resolved to try the power of the law against the ringleaders of the
"anti-tithe meetings." A great number of persons were apprehended on the
charge of conspiracy, and of holding illegal assemblies. Some of these
on their trials were convicted, and others, on the advice of O'Connell,
pleaded guilty, and they were fined and imprisoned; but they were looked
upon as martyrs, and the penalties which they were suffering were noted
down as another unpardonable injury committed against Ireland by the
English government and the Protestant church. The law, however, was not
equally successful when directed against the more atrocious crimes of
arson and murder, which had been committed in the southern counties.
Life was not safe in those parts, and jurors and witnesses alike dreaded
the execution of a duty which might involve a sentence of death upon
themselves. Rather than attend, they paid the fine for absence; or if
they attended, they were afraid to convict, even in the most atrocious
cases. The law-officers were, in fact, compelled to give up the
prosecutions in despair, and murder remained unavenged. In celebration
of this triumph over law and justice, the county of Kilkenny blazed
with bonfires, announcing to the world that the guilty had escaped
punishment. As for the "acquitting jurors," they were greeted with the
popular applause; and because they allowed murder to be committed
with impunity, the peasantry hastened in crowds to their fields in
harvest-time, and reaped their fields for nothing. Crime, therefore,
prospered; and the tale of murder was repeatedly told in the newspapers
of the day, while the perpetrators thereof escaped the punishment due
to their crimes. Yet no lament was raised by the political guides of
Ireland over murdered landholders and clergymen; it appeared to be, in
their sight, a just revenge. At the same time a long wail of woe was
heard throughout the country, if it happened that any of the resisting
peasantry were killed by the military in the performance of their duties
in securing the tithe. Four were thus killed in the county of Cork, and
others wounded, the military being compelled to fire in self-defence;
and Mr. O 'Connell immediately sent forth a letter to the reformers of
Great Britain, invoking vengeance. And yet this man, who could deplore
the fate of violators of the laws, could not find any cause for lament
in the deaths of the many clergymen and laymen who had been slain by the
infuriated peasantry. He could not find it in his heart to deplore the
fact that the blood of peaceful, respectable, and virtuous citizens, had
been shed on Irish ground; but he could palliate the conduct of their
murderers, and by his agitation virtually sanction the foul crime.


STATE OF THE CONTINENT.

During this year Don Pedro carried his threat into execution, of
attempting to recover the throne of Portugal from his brother by force
of arms. He had been permitted to levy men, and to purchase vessels and
shipments of arms and ammunition, both in England and France, and the
naval part of the expedition was placed under the command of a British
officer, who became a Portuguese admiral. The expedition sailed from the
rendezvous, in the Azores, on the 27th of June, and it consisted of
two frigates, three corvettes, three armed brigs, and four schooners,
besides transports, and a number of gun-boats to cover the landing. The
army on board, including British and French recruits, did not amount to
ten thousand men, and it was scantily provided, both with cavalry and
artillery. The invaders landed off Oporto on the 9th of July, without
any opposition; and in the course of the day they took undisturbed
possession of the city, the enemy having retired to the left bank of
the Douro, and destroyed the bridge. The possession of this city was
doubtless of great importance to Don Pedro; but it was far removed from
the capital. He had hopes that the country would rise in his favour,
and that the military would abandon his opponent. In these expectations,
however, he was doomed to be disappointed. Don Miguel was enabled to
concentrate his forces, and to organise the means of resistance; and at
the close of the year, after some slight successes in engagements with
the enemy, he was shut up in Oporto by the Miguelites, who bombarded the
town, blockaded the Douro, and placed him in a very critical situation.

In the East a quarrel took place between the Sultan and Mehemet Ali,
Pasha of Egypt, which threatened serious consequences to the Turkish
empire, and occasioned such interference on the part of Russia as
awakened the jealousy, and aroused the watchfulness of the other
European powers. Ibrahim wrested Syria from the Porte, and the Ottoman
empire was tottering to its fall, unless the European states should
interfere to prevent it, or Russia should realize her long-cherished
schemes of aggrandizement by taking the shores of the Bosphorus, which
the Sultan was not able to defend, under her own protection. It was
feared by the European powers that Russia would thus act; and toward
the end of June, ministers dispatched the son-in-law of the premier on
a special mission to Russia. Much confidence was placed by the public
in the integrity and talents of Lord Durham, and an attempt was made to
induce the ministers to embrace this opportunity of mitigating the
cruel fate which hung over the unhappy Poles. Poland, however, was still
doomed to be unbefriended. Russia was left to seek the annihilation of
its existence as a separate nation at her pleasure. By an ukase
this year, indeed, the emperor declared that Poland, with a separate
administration, should become an integral part of the empire, "and its
inhabitants form but one nation with the Russians, bound together by
uniform and national sentiments." During this session, also, there was
a debate on the subject of payments made to Russia without the authority
of parliament. This question was connected with the financial affairs
of the country, though it was treated more as a question of political
party. It arose out of the treaty of 1814 for the incorporation of the
Belgian provinces with Holland. By that treaty Great Britain had agreed
to pay a certain share of a debt due to Russia by Holland, so long as
Holland and Belgium were united. They had now been disjoined for nearly
a year, and yet ministers had been making these payments without any
new authority from parliament. The subject was brought forward by
Mr. Herries, who entered at length on the subject, and contended that
England had no right any longer to pay money to Russia: the Dutch had
refused to pay any more, and ministers should not have done so without
at least new powers from parliament. He moved three resolutions:--"That
by the 55 Geo. III., for carrying into effect the convention between
Great Britain, the Netherlands, and Russia, the treasury was empowered
to issue sums to pay the interest and capital due by Holland to Russia,
conformably with the provisions of the convention: That the payment of
these sums was made to depend upon the non-separation of the kingdoms
of Holland and Belgium; and that, as the kingdoms of Belgium and
Holland had been separated, all payments made since that separation were
unwarranted by act of parliament, and contrary to the treaty recognising
the loan." Lord Althorp, in reply, said that the true question was,
whether the country was not bound in honour to the continued payment
of those sums. Looking at it only according to the strict letter of
the treaty, we might not be bound; but he thought that by a careful
examination of its spirit and provisions, it would be found that our
honour was pledged to the payments, and that on no other consideration
than that it was so pledged should we have interfered as we had done
in the affairs of Holland and Belgium. He argued that the separation
contemplated by the framers of the treaty was one produced by extreme
force, and had nothing to say to any severance proceeding from internal
causes. He argued further, that it was by giving Russia an interest
in preventing the severance of Holland and Belgium, that this country
concluded the treaty; and that, therefore, to that treaty we were
equally pledged. That Holland had refused to pay was immaterial: if one
pledged himself to the payment of a debt to which there was also a third
party, it would be dishonourable to take advantage of that third party
having refused to fulfil his engagement, as a legal reason for also
refusing to fulfil your engagement. With respect to the resolutions, he
had only to say, that, as the two first were merely declaratory of
the fact, he should, as far as they were concerned, move the previous
question; but as the third was a direct censure on ministers, he should
meet it with a direct negative. Ministers had acted on the opinion of
the attorney and solicitor-general, and they now defended that opinion.
Lord John Russell also argued that it was the spirit and not the letter
of the treaty which must be looked at, and that that spirit justified
the payment. He complained that the resolutions were moved with a mere
party view, and not from any love of economy or from any desire to
maintain a constitutional principle. He complained also, that a motion
should be made for censuring ministers, without calling for papers, and
without any allusion to the circumstances which had occurred in 1830
and 1831, and on which the interpretation of the treaty might in a great
degree depend. After some stinging comments upon this speech, Sir Robert
Peel wound up the debate in one of his most plausible parliamentary
addresses. He clearly confuted the main arguments which Lord Althorp
used, and produced an effect unfavourable to ministers. When the house
divided, the previous question was carried by a majority only of twenty;
and government had but the narrow majority of twenty-four for the third
resolution. Many of their adherents, including Mr. Hume, voted against
them on this occasion; and even their secretary-at-war, Sir Henry
Parnell, failed to attend to vote for them, for which conduct he lost
his place, and was succeeded by Sir John Cam Hobhouse. The truth was, as
it afterwards appeared, ministers had entered into a new convention with
Russia, although that convention had not been ratified. Ministers laid
this before parliament on the 27th of June; and on the 12th of July Lord
Althorp moved the house to go into committee to consider of it, with the
view that a bill should be brought in to enable his majesty to execute
it. The convention provided for continuing the payments, and the
opposition thought this a powerful argument in their favour; if a new
convention was necessary, it was said, the former payments were made
without authority. They moved the following amendment to Lord Alfhorp's
motion:--"That it appears to this house that the payment made by the
commissioners of the treasury on account of the interest due on the
Russian loan in Holland, in January last, when the obligation and
authority to make such payment had, according to the terms of the
convention with Holland and Russia, and of the act of parliament founded
thereon, ceased and determined, and also when a new convention with
Russia, not then communicated to this house, had been entered into,
recognising the necessity of recurring to parliament for power to
continue such payments under the circumstances which had attended the
separation which had taken place, was an application of the public
money not warranted by law." Ministers still argued the question on the
ground, whether this country was bound in good faith to continue the
payments? if we were, they said, this convention was only to fulfil that
duty. But the strongest argument in their favour was that adduced by
Lord Althorp, which was to the effect, that, if his motion were lost,
it would upset the ministry. As the reform bill was still pending, many
voted for, who would have voted against them; and, on a division, the
amendment was lost by forty-six--one hundred and ninety-seven voting for
it, and two hundred and forty-three against it. During the progress of
the bill, founded on the motion, Mr. A. Baring moved an address to the
king, "praying his majesty to be graciously pleased to direct that there
be laid before that house copies or extracts of any documents relating
to the convention of the 19th of May, 1815, between Great Britain,
Russia, and the Netherlands, explanatory of the spirit and objects of
that convention;" but this motion was lost by a majority of thirty-six in
favour of ministers. On this occasion Mr. Hume voted for them, although,
he said, he knew they were in the wrong. He had come down to the house
on the 12th of July, he said, with a firm determination to vote against
them; but when he found by whom he was surrounded, he was unwilling to
join them in driving ministers from office. He had changed his opinion,
and would vote with the Whigs against the Tories, although he believed
the Whigs were in the wrong. But the fact was, he was determined not
to assist in turning out ministers until they had completed the great
measure of reform. A great deal remained to be done, and he wanted to
see a new election take place; he was determined, therefore, to support
ministers. The conduct of Mr. Hume was followed generally by the
liberal party, and this policy of the extreme sections of liberals alone
preserved ministers in office. Another interesting subject was brought
before the house by Mr. Lytton Bulwer, relating to the Germanic states.
He moved for "an address to the king, requesting his majesty to exert
his influence with the diet in opposition to the course which that body
was then pursuing." In making this motion, Mr. Bulwer traced an outline
of the political history of the Germanic confederacy, from its free
government to its termination with the victories of Austerlitz and Jena,
when the principle of aggrandizing the larger states at the expense of
the smaller was first avowed and practised. He said that the defeat
of Napoleon in his Russian campaign gave to Germany the opportunity of
casting off a yoke which had been reluctantly borne. Russia and Prussia
then appealed to her former free constitutions, the restoration of which
was distinctly promised, when the Germanic states rose _en masse_; and
the battle of Leipsic, with the downfall of the French power, speedily
followed. By the second article of the congress of Vienna, he continued,
the promises of Russia and Prussia were respected, and the rights of
every class in the nation were solemnly guaranteed, the only state
disagreeing being Wurtemburg. The late protocol of the diet, however,
had for its object the rendering of the representative bodies of the
several states useless, by relieving their despotic princes from every
embarrassment which an efficient control by such assemblies might
create, and to protect Austria and Prussia against the influential
example of popular institutions. The sovereigns of these two states, he
said, are willing to give just so much constitutional liberty to Germany
as will not allow its writers to write, its professors to teach, its
chambers to vote taxes, make speeches, or propose resolutions; whilst
every state should be so inviolate, so independent, that, with or
without the invitation of its sovereign, a deputation of Austrian or
Prussian hussars may be sent to keep it in order! The question was,
therefore, was it politic for England, under such circumstances, to
interfere? Our situation, he said, rendered it incumbent on us to
express an opinion, at least, in favour of the German people, or we
must be thought to take part with their rulers. He could not recommend
a foolish and hasty interference with foreign states, yet he could not
consent that England should be a cipher in the political combinations of
Europe, looking with indifference on the continent, as though no changes
could affect her interests. And if there was any one thing more than
another which immediately affected British interests, he thought it was
the fate of Germany. Unite that country under a good government, and it
would be at once a check on the aggrandisement of France and ambition of
Russia. Mr. Bulwer concluded with his motion for the address; but Lord
Palmerston dissented from his opinions, and was willing to believe that
the government alluded to would not be so impolitic as to put down free
constitutions. The motion was therefore negatived.

During this year Greece was involved in absolute anarchy. After the
assassination of Capo d'Istrias it was left without a government, and
although Augustine, brother of the murdered president, concocted a
provisional government, and placed himself at the head, the refractory
chiefs could not brook his authority, and began to act for themselves.
A national assembly met at Argos in the middle of December, 1831; but
it was not more successful in restoring obedience and tranquillity.
Everywhere there was confusion and bloodshed, as in the days of the
ancients. The national assembly of Argos was overthrown, and every
chief ruled despotic in the small district which he was strong enough to
occupy. In the meantime the courts of Britain, France, and Russia were
occupied in selecting a king who might reduce the country to order more
easily and effectually than they could do by protocols and despatches.
Their choice fell on Otho, son of the King of Bavaria; and his majesty
having accepted the crown on behalf of his son, the conditions were
fixed by a treaty, concluded in May, between him and the sovereigns of
England, France, and Russia. The territory to be comprehended in the
new state was to be somewhat larger than when its sovereignty had been
offered to Leopold; and the King of Bavaria was to send along with his
son an army of 36,000 men, to be supported entirely at the expense of
the country. It might have been expected that the Greeks would have been
averse to the rule of a foreign monarch, attended by foreign troops, and
professing a different religion to themselves. The assembly of Napoli,
however, as soon as they had been informed of the conclusion of the
treaty, dispatched an address to the King of Bavaria, praying him to
hasten the arrival of their monarch. The address was followed by a
deputation, which was received at Munich with marks of royal favour, and
which had been commissioned to assure their future sovereign of their
good will and ready submission to his rule. The young monarch quitted
Munich for Greece on the 6th of December, proceeding by the way of
Naples, Otranto, and Brindisi, to Corfu, where he was to be met by the
army intended to support his newly-erected throne. He made his entrance
into Napoli on the 5th of February, 1833; and the regency appointed
for the duration of his minority--for he was a minor--replaced the
provisional government.


CHAPTER XLIII.

{WILLIAM IV. 1832-1833}

     _Meeting of Parliament; Reelection of Mr. Manners Sutton as
     Speaker..... . Opening of the Reformed Parliament by the
     King in person..... Case of Mr. Pease..... Irish  Coercion
     Bill..... Irish   Church  Bill..... Irish Tithe Bill.....
     Financial Statements..... Bank of England Charter
     renewed..... . East India Question..... Abolition of Slavery
     in the Colonies..... Factory Bill..... The Corn  Laws.....
     Resolutions against Bribery,  &c...... Bill  to Remove the
     Civil Disabilities of Jews..... Prorogation of
     Parliament..... Foreign Affairs_


MEETING OF PARLIAMENT--RE-ELECTION OF MR. MANNERS SUTTON AS SPEAKER.

{A.D. 1833}

The first reformed parliament was opened by commission on the 29th of
January. The first business of the commons was to elect a speaker. Mr.
Manners Sutton had not been advanced to the peerage, although such a
mark of honour is usually bestowed on those who have filled the chair
for so long a period, and with such distinguished applause. At the
general election he had been returned one of the members for the
university of Cambridge; and ministers having obtained his consent to
put him in nomination, resolved to support his re-election as chairman.
This intention was not concealed; and on the meeting of parliament Mr.
Hume moved that Mr. Littleton, one of the members for Staffordshire,
should take the chair. The Radicals, of whom Mr. Hume was one of the
leaders, took this step on the score of Mr. Manners Sutton's politics,
considering it a matter of the greatest importance that the speaker
should concur generally in the political sentiments entertained by a
majority of members. Mr. Hume's motion was seconded by Mr. O'Connell,
who denounced the intention of government as "another instance of the
paltry truckling of the present administration." On the other side, Lord
Morpeth moved, and Sir Francis Burdett seconded the motion, that Mr.
Manners Sutton should take the chair. In doing so, they insisted on the
admitted fact of his superior qualification, as well as the candid
and impartial conduct which he had observed during the late political
struggles. Mr. Littleton himself requested Mr. Hume to withdraw
his motion; but that gentleman declined to do so. Seeing the house
universally in the favour of Mr. Manners Sutton, the Radicals now
chiefly confined themselves to the question of the pension. The attorney
and solicitor-general argued that there was no feasible ground for these
objections, and asserted that he would have no claim to his retiring
annuity. By act of parliament, any speaker was entitled to his salary
till a successor was elected, and Mr. Manners Sutton, being thus
entitled to his salary, he could have no claim for a pension. On a
division, Mr. Manners Sutton was re-elected by a majority of two hundred
and forty-one against thirty-one.


OPENING OF THE REFORMED PARLIAMENT BY THE KING IN PERSON.

The first session of the new parliament was opened by the king in
person, on the 5th of February. His speech on this occasion took a
comprehensive view of our foreign and domestic relations, in which the
affairs of Holland, the approaching termination of the charters of the
Bank and the East India Company, the temporalities of the church, and
the state of Ireland, were prominently introduced.

In the house of lords the address was voted almost unanimously, a slight
discussion only being elicited by the sentiments of Lord Aberdeen and
the Duke of Wellington, against the foreign policy of government, and
especially that regarding Portugal and Holland. Such harmony, however,
did not exist in the commons. A part of the speech which pointed at the
adoption of extraordinary measures to suppress insubordination, excited
violent indignation among a large portion of the Irish members.
Mr. O'Connell denounced the address as "bloody, brutal, and
unconstitutional." He concluded by moving an amendment, that the house
do now resolve itself into a committee of the whole house to consider of
the address to his majesty. Mr. Stanley replied in a speech of caustic
severity, which the agitators of Ireland have never forgotten or
forgiven. He argued that coercion was necessary; that crime could not
be put down in Ireland but by the strong arm of the law. Colonel Davis
considered Mr. Stanley's speech as an insult to Ireland, and as proving
that he was totally unfit for office. He was opposed to the repeal of
the union; but unless justice were dealt out to Ireland by measures
of relief being proposed, he would vote against the coercive policy
contemplated by government. Mr. Roebuck expressed himself to the same
effect: he would not join with ministers in doing what must produce a
civil war in Ireland: if they did not take care, they would find the
people rise up in such terrible array that they would not know where to
turn. Lord Althorp declared that it was the intention of ministers to
remove every grievance they possibly could; but, he asked, was it not
a grievance that, in Ireland, life and property were not secure--that
murder, burglary, and arson should exist in every part of that country?
If it was their duty to remove grievances, ought they not to remove this
grievance also? The debate was continued by adjournment on the three
following days; the general strain of the arguments adduced coinciding
with those expressed on the first day of the debate. The opposition
to the address was chiefly conducted by Irish members, although
they received likewise the support of Messrs. Hume, Cobbett, Bulwer,
Tennyson, and Clay. Mr. Bulwer told ministers that the independent
representatives of the people in that house, three hundred in number,
were allied to no old party, and attached to no superstitious observance
of Whig names; and that these members could not, night after night, hear
grievances stated by the Irish members, which, received no other answers
except demands for soldiery, without dropping off in serious defection
from the ministerial majority. Mr. Tennyson said, that he had no doubt
of the good intention of ministers; but he could not approve of their
conduct in pressing the house to adopt the address. At the same time
he could not support the amendment of Mr. O'Connell, and he therefore
proposed another to this effect:--"That the house should declare its
readiness to sanction such measures for restoring social order in
Ireland, as might appear, on mature deliberation and inquiry, necessary,
and to entrust his majesty's official servants with additional power for
that purpose, and to employ its best energies to the putting an end to
the disturbances which affect that country; that, while the house would
give a willing ear and earnest attention to the complaints and petitions
of the Irish people, with the view to promoting an efficient remedy, it
was prepared to resist by every means in its power all lawless attempts
to effect a repeal of the legislative union between the two countries."
Mr. Macaulay taunted Mr. O'Connell with not having ventured to bring
the question of repeal before the house. He asked, what was meant by the
watch-word of repeal of the union between Great Britain and Ireland. If
those who used it meant a complete separation, or a species of Hibernian
republic, their conduct was both comprehensible and consistent; but if,
as they asserted, they only meant two separate independent legislatures,
under the same monarch, the motion was inconsistent with the first
principles of the science of government. After having shown this
inconsistency by a chain of conclusive reasoning, he said, that he
admitted Ireland had grievances to remove; but, he asked, was he in the
meantime to see the law outraged and despised by a misguided multitude?
Talk of the distribution of church property in a country where no
property was respected! and be told that to enforce the laws against the
robber, the murderer, and the incendiary, was to drive an injured people
into civil war! Did those who talked thus wildly recollect that sixty
murders, or attempts at murder, and six hundred burglaries, or attempts
at burglary, were committed in one county alone, in the space of a few
weeks? This was worse than civil war. He would rather live in the midst
of many civil wars he had read of, than in some parts of Ireland. Civil
war had commenced, and if not checked, it would end in the ruin of the
empire. Mr. Shiel, in reference to repeal, entrenched himself behind
quotations from speeches delivered by Lord Grey at the time of the
union, in which he predicted that it would only lead to distress,
suspicion, and resentment, and that the people of Ireland would seek an
opportunity of recovering rights which they would believe to have been
wrested from them by force. The interest of the debate ended with Mr.
Shiel's speech, although addresses were subsequently made by Mr. Grant,
Mr. Hume, and Sir Robert Peel. On a division, Mr. O'Connell's amendment
was lost by a majority of four hundred and twenty-eight against forty;
and Mr. Tennyson's, by three hundred and ninety-three against sixty. On
the bringing up of the report, Mr. Cobbett moved that the whole of the
address should be rejected, and that another which he had concocted
should be adopted. This crude amendment was negatived by an overwhelming
majority: only twenty-three in a full house voted for it.


CASE OF MR. PEASE.

During the general election, the southern division of the county of
Durham had returned Mr. Pease, a gentleman who belonged to the Society
of Friends. On the 9th of February, when he appeared to be sworn in,
as a Friend he refused to take an oath, but offered to give his
solemn affirmation. He was desired by the speaker to withdraw, as no
affirmation could be made without the sanction of the house. A committee
was appointed, on the motion of Lord Althorp, to report what precedents
were to be found on the journals, and what was the state of the law in
regard to Friends being allowed to substitute affirmation for oath. The
report of this committee was taken into consideration on the 14th, and
its chairman, Mr. Wynn, moved that Mr. Pease was, on making his solemn
affirmation, entitled to take his seat, without taking those oaths which
were demanded from the other members of the house. Mr. Wynn stated, at
great length, the reasons which induced him to make this motion, and the
solicitor-general agreed in his views. It was quite clear, the latter
said, that at the time of passing the 7th and 8th William III., Friends
could not sit in parliament, having been excluded, along with all other
dissenters, by the 30th Charles II.; but under the act of William they
would have been admissible, if its provisions, as they ought to have
been, had been construed liberally. At all events, the act of George
II. removed every doubt: it was evident that the legislature, in passing
that act, intended to put Friends on the same footing in England with
all other dissenters, except Catholics; such being the case, the
act ought to be construed in accordance with the intention of the
legislature in passing it. The motion to allow Mr. Pease to make his
solemn affirmation in place of the usual oath was agreed to unanimously.


IRISH COERCION BILL.

On the 15th of February, Earl Grey introduced into the house of lords
a bill for the suppression of disturbances in Ireland. In doing so,
his lordship related the evils which called for such a measure, clearly
showing that it was necessary. In explaining the provisions by which
ministers proposed to meet the evils, he said, that the bill combined
many provisions of the several laws that had been passed both in the
Irish and English parliament for the repression of such outrages as he
had related, with such alterations as circumstances seemed to require.
Provision was made for proclaiming districts in a state of disturbance;
and it was provided that courts should be appointed in which offences
connected with such districts were to be tried. It was also provided
that persons prosecuted under this act should be obliged to plead
forthwith, as in cases of felony, and not be permitted to delay their
trial. By the bill the lord-lieutenant was to be empowered, on due
information, to proclaim any district to be in a disturbed state.
All persons were to be warned to abstain from seditious and illegal
meetings; and no one was to be absent from their houses after sunset
until sunrise, unless they could give good reason for their being
abroad, under the penalty of being found guilty of a misdemeanour.
Another provision was, that meetings for the purpose of petitioning
parliament, or for discussing grievances, should not be held without
giving ten days' notice to the lord-lieutenant, or without his sanction.
It was further thought advisable that proclaimed districts should, to a
certain extent, be subjected to martial law. Military courts were to
be formed for the trial of all offences under this act, with power
to pronounce sentence as definitively as any commission of oyer and
terminer. The lord-lieutenant was to have the power for the appointment
of courts-martial; and it was provided that courts-martial should not
consist of more than nine gentlemen nor less than five. It was further
provided, that no officer under twenty-one years of age, or who had
held his commission for less than two years, should act on such
courts-martial; and that the said courts-martial should not have the
power of trying for any offence to which a felonious punishment was
attached, except by special direction of the lord-lieutenant; and that,
in that case, they should only pronounce sentence of transportation,
either for seven years or for life. It was made imperative that
a serjeant-at-law or a king's counsel should sit to assist in the
judgment. A clause was likewise introduced to shield officers who had.
acted on courts-martial under this act from future prosecution: any
complaints made against them on account of their proceedings at any
court-martial were to be inquired into by a court-martial to be called
for that purpose. The bill further gave power to enter houses in
search of arms; and persons refusing to produce them were subjected to
punishment. It was also made a misdemeanour to disperse seditious papers
in a proclaimed district; with a provision that, if the persons actually
dispersing them gave up his employer, the former should be discharged.
Finally, it was to be enacted, that when an individual arrested under
this bill sued out a writ of _habeas corpus_ within three calendar
months after his arrest, it should be a sufficient return to the writ,
that the person so detained was kept in custody on a charge of offence
perpetrated in a proclaimed district; at the same time it was provided
that every person arrested should be brought to trial within three
calendar months, or should be discharged. This bill was carried in the
lords without opposition; some slight amendments being adopted in the
committee with reference to the constitution, the powers, and the mode
of procedure of the courts-martial. The bill, however, had to encounter
a stormy course in the commons. On its appearance there on the 22nd, the
first reading was postponed till the 27th, and Mr. O'Connell gave notice
that he would move a call of the house for that day, and would repeat
the call whenever he perceived any relaxation of its effects, so long as
the bill was before them. He taunted ministers with the delay, which he
insinuated was interposed to their remedial measures, and reminded them
there was another house of parliament through which they might find it
impossible to carry redress of grievances, whatever was the unanimity
with which it enacted measures of coercion: "a house where any proposal
springing from malignant hatred of Ireland was sure to pass." Mr.
Stanley denied that there was any necessity for remedial and repressive
measures going on together; but at the same time he declared that
if ministers found themselves unable to carry both they would resign
office. On the 27th, the house having been called over, Lord Althorp
moved the first reading of the bill. Ministers, he said, had waited
to the last, to ascertain what order could be restored by the ordinary
administration of the laws; and after relating at length the evils
which afflicted Ireland--telling-many a tale of murder committed with
impunity, even in broad daylight--he explained the provisions of the
bill concocted to repress them. In conclusion, he asserted that the bill
had no reference to the collection of tithes, as some had hinted, or any
other individual purpose, except the maintenance of social order. The
motion was met by an amendment from Mr. Tennyson, that the bill should
be read a second time that day fortnight: his object being, as he
stated, to give government an opportunity, whether in a select committee
or otherwise, to satisfy the house that the dangers which had been
stated really existed, and that there were no other means of effectually
checking them. The amendment was supported by Messrs. Bulwer and Grote,
the former of whom was averse to coercion in any shape, and contended
that it would only produce mischief. Mr. Grote admitted that good
grounds had been stated why the hands of justice should be strengthened,
but he objected very strongly to courts-martial being employed in the
administration of justice. To him it appeared that it would be much
better if, instead of creating these courts-martial, the bill had
granted more extensive, prompt, and efficient powers to the civil
courts. Mr. Stanley, in reply to Mr. Grote, said it was true that the
committee of last year had recommended a tribunal consisting of the
magistrates of the neighbourhood sitting at quarter-sessions, and having
power to sit by adjournment from time to time, till tranquillity was
restored. He contended, however, that it would be a most objectionable
thing to confide the administration of such a law to the local
magistracy. The debate was continued up to the 5th of March, the Irish
members threatening to have recourse to repeated motions of adjournment
if any attempt was made to close the discussion prematurely. The
opposition was composed of those who considered that the bill ought to
be resisted altogether, as well as of those who thought that delay, as
involved in the amendment, should be conceded. The members who opposed
it were Messrs. O'Connell, Shiel, O'Connor, Baldwin, Barron, O'Dwyer,
and Ruthven, among the Irish members; and Messrs. Romilly and Harvey,
with Majors Beauclerk and Fancourt, among the English members. On the
other hand, the necessity and efficacy of the bill were maintained by
Lord John Russell, Sir R. Peel, and Mr. Macaulay, with other English
members; and by Messrs. Carew, Tennent, and Lefroy, Lords Castlereagh
and Acheson, and Sirs R. Bateson and C. Coote, among the Irish members.
The opposition contended that no necessity for the bill had been made
out to any extent, much less to the effect of utterly destroying the
constitution over the whole of Ireland; that the "prædial agitation"
had no connection with political agitation, and did not require any
measure like this to put it down; and that the true cause of these
disturbances was the refusal of ministers to abolish tithes, and the
true object of it to prevent all expression of public sentiment in
Ireland against their faithlessness and misgovernment. Those who
supported the bill contended, on the other hand, that not only were the
existing outrages such as to require extraordinary measures contrary
to the constitution, and that when this necessity for overstepping the
constitution once existed, it was safer to err on the side of vigour
than to run the risk of a half-measure; but that it was likewise proved
that this "prædial agitation," as it was called by the repealers, was
closely connected with the political agitation; the principle of both
was intimidation. Sir Robert Peel admitted that the measure was one of
intolerable severity if there was not a paramount necessity for it; but
he denied that it was a suspension of the British constitution. As for
the amendment proposing delay, Sir Robert said that he could not listen
to it for one moment; the necessity for the measure was urgent. What
could be answered to the astounding fact that in one year and in one
province there had been one hundred and ninety-six murders and attempts
at murder, one hundred and ninety-four burnings, one thousand eight
hundred and twenty-seven burglaries and attacks on houses? How could the
state of society be worse! and how could the people of Ireland be better
off by persevering in maintaining the existing law! One hundred and
ninety-six murders! Why, great battles had been fought, and great
victories achieved by this country at a less expense of human blood.
The battle of St. Vincent had been gained at less cost of life; the
sanguinary bombardment of Algiers had caused less loss of life; and we
had rolled back the impetuous tide of French exultation at the battle of
Busaco with less loss of life. There was something animating in the idea
of a battle; but what horrid recollections haunted the mind which
had witnessed a murder! The debate was closed by Mr. O'Connell,
who, smarting under the severe remarks made by some of the speakers,
delivered a speech of remarkable energy. Ministers, he said, after
combating at length the principles of the measures, had done their best
by enforcing the tithe act; it was not their fault that the case was not
worse. As for the attacks made upon himself he cared nothing for them
personally; but the wrongs of his country were mixed up with them. Why,
he asked, did they not pass an act to banish him? That would be fair
and manly, and he would consent to it; but let them not banish the
constitution from Ireland. He stood in a reformed parliament, in
the midst of the representatives of the great and glorious people of
England, who, disguise it as they might, were about to legislate against
a single individual. What mighty work! He felt compassion for them. On
a division, the first reading of the bill was carried by a majority
of four hundred and sixty-six to eighty-nine. This was a preponderance
which seemed to promise an easy passage through its other stages,
especially as the discussion which is generally elicited at the second
reading took place on the first reading. When, however, the order of the
day for the second reading was moved, Mr. Hume opposed it in a violent
speech, denouncing the apostasy of ministers: they had forgotten, he
said, and violated the principles of which they had been the noisy
advocates for twenty-five years, and to which advocacy they were wholly
indebted for their political reputation and power. He warned them
against "the wickedness of their proceedings," and called on them to
pause in their rash career. He moved as an amendment:--"That the house
deeply laments the disturbed state of some of the districts in Ireland,
and is willing to entrust to his majesty whatever powers may be
necessary to control and punish the disturbers of the public peace, and
the midnight violators of the law; but is of opinion that it has not
been satisfactorily shown that the existing laws are not sufficient for
these purposes, and it cannot, therefore, give its consent to a bill
which places Ireland out of the pale of the British constitution."
Alderman Wood seconded this resolution; but, on a division which took
place on the 11th, the second reading being put off on some matter of
form to that day, the amendment was rejected, and the second reading
carried by three hundred and sixty-three against eighty-four. But
notwithstanding this overwhelming majority, the progress of the bill
through the committee on the 13th, 15th, 18th, 19th, and 22nd of
March was a series of conflicts. On the 13th Mr. O'Connell moved an
instruction to the committee to "preserve inviolate and effectual
the undoubted right of his majesty's subjects in Ireland peaceably to
propose, prepare, and present petitions for redressing grievances to his
majesty, and to both houses of parliament." This, he said, would still
leave hope to his country. This proposition was rejected by one hundred
and twenty-five against sixty-three; and in the committee Mr. O'Connell
moved several amendments, which were likewise negatived. In the
committee ministers themselves inserted a provision by which, even in
proclaimed districts, offences purely political were withdrawn from the
cognizance of the military tribunals, and left to be dealt with by
the ordinary civil jurisdiction. Ministers, also, of their own accord,
omitted, in the clause giving powers to search, arrest, and detain for
trial in proclaimed districts, the provision which gave this power
to "such other persons as the said lord-lieutenant shall think fit
to authorize in that behalf." Divisions took place on the clauses
establishing the courts-martial, suspending the Habeas Corpus Act,
and protecting those who should act under the bill: but these were all
carried by large majorities. The bill finally passed on the 23rd of
March, and was immediately sent back to the peers for their concurrence
in the alterations which had been made in the commons. Their lordships
took these into consideration on the 1st of April; and though much
dissatisfaction was expressed by the peers with the amendments, and
especially with a proviso inserted in one of the clauses, that no
district should be proclaimed because tithes were not paid in it, the
bill was finally passed. The effect of the bill was such as was
desired. On the 10th of April the lord-lieutenant issued a proclamation
suppressing the association of volunteers, after which he applied the
provisions of the act to the county of Kilkenny with the best effect. It
soon appeared, indeed, that the list of outrageous offenders against the
laws decreased throughout the country. The discussions on the coercion
act had produced many personal conflicts in debate between Mr. O'Connell
and the Irish secretary. O'Connell seemed to regard Mr. Stanley with
bitter hostility, arising partly from the vigour with which he repelled
the attack of the repealers, and from the supposition that he was
not disposed to give up any of the revenues of the Irish church. Mr.
Stanley, however, now retired from the battle by accepting the more
tranquil office of colonial secretary, which had become vacant by
Viscount Goderich being made lord-privy-seal, and advanced a step in the
peerage by becoming Earl of Papon. Sir John Cam Hobhouse succeeded Mr.
Stanley as Irish secretary.


IRISH CHURCH BILL.

{WILLIAM IV. 1832-1833}

While carrying on their measures for tranquillizing Ireland, ministers
had uniformly admitted that grievances existed in Ireland which ought
to be redressed. They had also declared their readiness to propose
expedients for that purpose. At the head of these grievances, the Irish
established church had always been placed, it standing in the peculiar
predicament of possessing large revenues, whilst a majority of the
people belonged to a faith, the clergy of which had once been the
possessors of that opulence. The object of the repealers was to diminish
these revenues, while they disclaimed any wish of seeing them bestowed
on their own clergy. There were others, at the same time, and those
not Irishmen, who, regarding every religious establishment as an evil,
considered the property of the church as a fund which might be seized
for what they denominated the purposes of the state. It was with this
subject that government next dwelt, and in doing so they adopted a
middle course--conceding much, but not conceding all that was required
of them. The measures which they intended to pursue were unfolded in the
commons by Lord Althorp, on the 12th of February. It appeared from his
statement that the total revenues of the Irish church were found not to
exceed £800,000 per annum. On these funds, he said, it was the intention
of ministers, after abolishing first-fruits, to impose a tax varying
from five to fifteen per cent. This tax, however, was not to be imposed
on clergymen whose livings were under £200 per annum. The larger
revenues of the primates, he said, were to be reduced respectively to
the amounts of £10,000 and £8000 per annum. The sum thus collected was
to be applied under commissioners to the abolition of church-cess; the
augmentation of poor livings and building of glebe-houses; the division
of unions, and the erection of churches. With respect to the offices of
deans and chapters, it was proposed, wherever they were unconnected with
the cure of souls, to abolish them altogether, or to unite them to such
cure; and with regard to livings, where no duty had been done for the
last three years, it was further proposed to suspend the appointment of
ministers at the discretion of the commissioners. Ten bishoprics were
to be abolished, and the vacated sees were to be annexed to those
preserved. With reference to the lands attached to bishoprics the
chancellor of the exchequer laid down this principle, namely, that if
by the act of parliament to be introduced any new value was given to
benefices, that new value not belonging properly to the church might be
appropriated to the exigencies of the state. He believed, he said, that
£500,000 per annum was the value of all Irish episcopal lands to
the lessees or tenants, though the bishops did not receive more than
£100,000. By a different mode of granting leases, his lordship showed
that a sum of near £3,000,000 might be acquired for the state without
any diminution of income to the bishops. His lordship concluded by
moving for leave to bring in a bill to alter and amend the laws relating
to the established church in Ireland. The plan thus unfolded by
Lord Althorp was calculated to produce hostility from two opposite
quarters,--from the conservative opposition, who thought its principles
destructive to the Irish church; and from the economists, repealers, and
radicals, who thought that it left too much of the church untouched.
At the same time it was clear that these different kinds of opposition
would not endanger the success of the bill in the commons, as ministers
were sure of being joined by one of the parties in resisting any
amendment proposed by the other. Moreover, most of the Irish members
approved of tire plan so far as it went, although Mr. O'Connell
denounced the estimate of the Irish church revenues as "a base
delusion," and the design of government as one which tended to "relieve
no grievance except church-cess, not even suspending the war against the
poor man's pig and tenth potato."

Leave was given to bring in the bill; but it was not brought in before
the 1st of March. It was read a first time on the same evening; but the
proposal to take the second reading on the 13th was successfully opposed
by Sir Robert Peel, Sir R. Inglis, and others, ministers consenting to
let it stand for the 14th. On the 14th, when the motion was made for
reading the order of the day, Mr. C. Wynn objected that the bill was a
tax-bill, and therefore could originate only in a committee of the whole
house. This view was combated by Lord Althorp, Mr. Stanley, and the
solicitor-general; and supported by Sir Robert Peel, and Messrs.
Goulburn and others. The objection was so strong that Lord Althorp found
himself under the necessity of discharging the order for the second
reading; and, on the suggestion of Sir R. Peel, a select committee was
appointed to search for precedents, and report its opinion whether the
bill should, according to the rules and orders of the house, originate
in a committee of the whole house. This committee reported that the bill
was a tax-bill; and in consequence of this decision Lord Althorp, on the
1st of April, moved three resolutions with reference to the Irish church
in a committee of the whole house. These resolutions having been agreed
to, the bill relating thereto, which was a counterpart of the former,
was read a first time. The second reading was fixed for the 6th of May,
on which day Mr. Shaw met the motion with an amendment that it should be
read that day six months. He opposed the bill, he said, because it
would violate the rights of property, and because it tended to lower the
character of the clergy. If property so fenced by acts of parliament,
as church property was, could be assailed, he asked, what species of
property could be safe? He admitted that it was desirable to change
the system of church-cess; the Irish clergy themselves would not
have objected to a proper remedy for this; but he would have sought a
substitute for it in the reduction of the incomes of the bishops, and
not in the diminution of their number. The amendment was seconded by Mr.
Estcourt, one of the members for the University of Oxford, who thought
that where the principles of the bill were not mischievous, as involving
the first example of a confiscation of property, they were fallacious
in the results which it was promised they would produce. Sir Robert
Peel said that he approved of many parts of the bill--as that part which
required that the spiritual duties of the clergy should be personally
discharged, and of that which provided for the abolition of the
church-cess. At the same time there were other parts of the bill, he
said, which he disliked. Lord Althorp and Messrs. Stanley and Grant
maintained that there was no ground for denying the right of parliament
to interfere with the church property; and argued with regard to the
diminution in the number of bishops, that the bill did not suppress
bishoprics, but only consolidated them. The second reading of the bill
was carried by three hundred and seventeen to seventy-eight. Before
the house went into committee, Mr. Gillon moved an instruction to the
committee, that the bill should contain certain provisions for resuming
all the temporalities of the Irish church, and applying them after the
demise of the present incumbents to purposes of general utility; but
this motion was at once negatived. The reduction of the number of
bishops was strongly opposed by the committee; but the clause was
nevertheless carried. The most important discussion arose on that part
of the measure which took £3,000,000 from the church to apply it to
state purposes. Both the conservative and radical party were opposed to
this; and though there could be no doubt that ministers would be able to
carry the clause through the commons, they had ascertained that it would
certainly be rejected by the lords. On these grounds, when the house
came to that clause, Mr. Stanley moved that it should be omitted. He
remarked:--"I am well aware that a strong feeling exists against the
alienation of church property, and therefore I propose that the
sum alluded to should be paid into, the hands of the ecclesiastical
commissioners, to be applied to the same purposes as the other with
which they are entrusted." Mr. O'Connell immediately attacked government
in a strain of unmeasured reproach. Many other members also contended
that ministers, by relinquishing this cause, had degraded themselves
in the eyes of the country, and that, if the house was to have tory
measures, it ought to have them under a tory ministry. But although many
of the supporters of the ministers deserted them from this cause, yet
the omission of the clause was carried by a majority of two hundred and
eighty against one hundred and forty-eight. In the committee, also,
it was agreed that beneficed clergymen in present possession of their
livings were to be exempted from the graduated tax: it was only to
affect their successors. On the third reading of the bill, Mr. Shiel
moved the insertion in the preamble of the following words:--"That
whereas the property in the possession of the established church of
Ireland is under the control of the legislature, and is applicable to
such purposes as may be deemed most fitting for the best interests
of the community at large, due regard being paid to the rights of all
parties interested." A long discussion took place on this motion, in
which old arguments were repeated, and on a division it was rejected.
The bill was read a third time on the 8th of July, by a majority of two
hundred and ninety-seven against ninety-four.

It was in the upper house, however, that the bill was exposed to the
greatest danger, since there existed among the peers a majority capable
of defeating ministers on any occasion which they might consider
expedient. It was read a first time in that house _pro forma_, and the
second reading was fixed for the 17th of July. In the meantime, the
commons, aware of the danger to which the bill was exposed, were on the
alert. On the 15th of July Sir J. Wrottesly proposed a call of the house
of commons, to promote its success as that of the reform bill had been
ensured, namely, by putting the members under arms, as it were, at
the critical point of its progress. Ministers deprecated the motion as
tending to embarrass the administration, and defeat the very end
for which it was proposed. At the same time they declared that their
official existence would depend on the success of the bill. The motion
was pressed to a division; but it was lost by a majority of one hundred
and sixty to one hundred and twenty-five. The debate on the second
reading of the bill in the upper house was continued by adjournment on
the 17th, 18th, and 19th of July, it being strongly opposed by many of
the bishops and peers. After an animated discussion, however, the
second reading was carried by one hundred and fifty-seven votes
against ninety-eight. In the committee it was proposed by the Duke of
Wellington, that instead of all the three civil commissioners being
named by the crown, one of them should be named by the head of the
church, one by the primate of Ireland, and one by the archbishop of
Dublin. Ministers conceded this point; but they successfully resisted
another, moved by the Earl of Wicklow, to the effect that the
appointment of the four bishops to the board of commissioners should be
vested in the bench of Irish bishops. They also successfully resisted an
amendment moved by Lord Gage, that the clause imposing the tax should be
extended to lay-impropriators as well as clerical. A proposal was next
made that the ten bishoprics should not be immediately abolished, but
that as they became vacant the crown, if so minded, might grant them to
be held in _commendam_ with the see to which the bill proposed to
unite them, while it should have power at the same time to grant their
revenues to the commissioners. Earl Grey declared that if this amendment
were carried it would be fatal to the bill; and it was lost, though only
by a majority of fourteen, seventy-six voting for it, and ninety against
it. Lord Wharncliffe then moved that the produce of tax imposed upon the
clergy should be appropriated to the augmentation of small livings,
and that the commissioners should not have power to apply it to other
purposes for which parish cess was levied. This amendment was lost by a
majority of twenty; but ministers were left in a minority of two, on the
clause empowering the commissioners to suspend appointments to benefices
in which divine service had not been performed during three years before
the 1st of February, 1833. An amendment was agreed to, that in all such
cases the bishop of the diocese in which the benefice might be situated,
should be entitled to act as a member of the board; and that the
revenues of the suspended benefice should be applied to the building
or repairing of the church or glebe-house in such benefice; or if they
should not require it, that then the revenues should be paid into the
general fund, under the management of the commissioners. On this
defeat Earl Grey adjourned the committee, in order to allow time for
considering whether ministers ought not to throw up the bill and resign.
On the next day, however, his lordship stated that they had resolved to
proceed with the bill; the effect of the amendment would be far from
an improvement to the bill, but he did not deem it such an alteration,
affecting the general efficiency of the measure, as would justify him in
abandoning the duty he had imposed upon himself of conducting it through
the house. At the same time, he said, he would not disguise from their
lordships that he laboured under deep sensations of difficulty and
embarrassment in consequence of the vote; and he felt that if any
further alterations of the like nature should be made, it would be for
him to consider how far it would be possible for him, consistently with
his duty to his sovereign and his country, to continue the conduct of
the measure. Some further alterations were admitted on the bringing up
of the report. One of these went to guard against the future contingency
of the lord-chancellor and lord-chief-justice of Ireland, members of the
board, being Catholics; and another placed at the disposal of the two
archbishops ten livings, not exceeding £800 a-year each, connected with
the suppressed bishoprics, for the purpose of being bestowed on the
junior fellows of the University of Dublin. The bill was passed on
the 30th of July, by a majority of one hundred and thirty-five
against eighty-one; and on the 2nd of August the commons agreed to the
amendments which had been made by the peers. Mr. O'Connell observed
that the lords had not made the bill much worse than they found it, and
protested against its being considered in any other light than as the
first instalment of the debt due to Ireland.


IRISH TITHE BILL.

Another measure connected with Ireland arose from the difficulty of
collecting tithes. It has been seen that in the preceding year an act
was passed, enabling government to advance to the Irish clergy such
amount of tithes as had been illegally withheld during the year 1833,
and empowered the executive, on making such advance, to levy the arrear
itself. This expedient only inflamed the animosity of the tithe-payers,
since it created a creditor whom it was apprehended would be more
difficult to resist. Ministers, therefore, resolved to relinquish
this plan; and they proposed instead of it that government should be
empowered to abandon all processes under the existing law, to pay up all
arrears, and to seek reimbursement in a different manner. On the 12th of
June Lord Althorp moved that it was the opinion of this committee that
an advance of money should be paid to the clergy of the established
church in Ireland, in order to relieve the occupying tenants from
payments on account of arrears of tithes, or composition of tithes
in the year 1833, such advance to be paid within a limited time by a
land-tax chargeable on all land liable to the payment of tithes, the
owners of which should not have paid the tithes, or composition of
tithes, which became due during such years. This was generally approved
of by O'Connell and the Irish members, though they insisted that it
should be extended to lay-impropriators as well as clerical. There were
others who opposed it because they thought it would be holding out a
premium to lawless violence, and an invitation to resistance to the
payment of tithes. Moreover, a third party were for rejecting it,
because instead of involving the principle that the Catholic population
should not be taxed in any shape for the Protestant church, it seemed
to contemplate the perpetuation of the impost. In accordance with
the expressed opinion of the committee, a resolution was moved to the
effect:--"That his majesty be enabled to direct exchequer-bills to
an amount not exceeding £1,000,000 to be issued, for the purpose of
advancing, under certain conditions, the arrears of tithes due for
1831 and 1832, subject to a deduction of 25 per cent., and the value of
tithes for 1833, subject to a deduction of 15 per cent., to such
persons as may be entitled to such arrears on such tithes, and as may be
desirous of receiving such advances; and that the amount advanced shall
be included in the tithe-composition, so as to be repaid in the course
of five years, being payable by half-yearly instalments." This plan was
strongly opposed, principally on the ground that the money would never
be repaid, since repayment was still to depend on a collection of tithe,
which never would succeed. The pretended loan would be converted into a
gift, and England, besides paying its own tithes, would also be
paying those of Ireland. The resolution was carried by eighty-seven
to fifty-one, and a bill founded on it was brought in and passed both
houses without any important alteration. The measure was regarded by
the Conservatives as a mischievous precedent, and they asserted that
any existing necessity for it had been produced by ministers' own
misgovernment.


FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.

The budget was opened on the 1st of April. As this was the first
occasion of bringing any financial statement before a reformed
parliament, the chancellor of the exchequer said that he thought it
right to state what progress had been made in redeeming that pledge of
economy on which the administration had taken office. In the number of
places abolished, he showed that there had been a saving effected of
£192,000, and he said that the diplomatic expenses had been reduced by
£91,735. A saving of £28,000 had also been effected by bringing a number
of persons from the retired list in the revenue department, and placing
them on active service. The state of the finances was more satisfactory
than during the last session. The chancellor of the exchequer
stated that the amount of the income and expenditure of the year was
respectively £46,853,000 and £45,366, leaving an excess of income over
expenditure of £1,487,000, an excess which would be more than sufficient
to cover the deficiency of £1,240,412 of the preceding year. He
estimated the revenue for the present year at £46,494,128, and the
expenditure at £44,922,219, which would leave a surplus of about
£1,572,000. He thought it desirable, he continued, that a reduction of
taxes should be made to the extent of this surplus. He proposed to make
the reductions on taxes chiefly which fell on industry; and he selected
tiles, marine insurance, advertisements, the assessed taxes, cotton, and
soap, as the taxes to be reduced. The estimated loss to the revenue by
these reductions was £1,056,000, which would leave a surplus for the
year, after the above reductions, of £516,000. Mr. Hume thought the
reductions were neither sufficiently great nor sufficiently numerous;
they ought to be pushed at least to the extent of the estimated
surplus. On the contrary, Sir Robert Peel was disposed to think that
the chancellor of the exchequer had carried reduction too far: it was
dangerous, he said, to reduce taxes to such an extent as might affect
our ability to keep faith with the public creditor. He concurred,
however, in the general view the noble lord had taken of the subject:
he had acted wisely in maintaining the system of taxation as it stood
at present. The financial statements of the chancellor of the exchequer
appear to have given general satisfaction, for there was no discussion
on the details.


BANK OF ENGLAND CHARTER RENEWED.

On the 31st of May Lord Althorp brought the subject of the renewal of
the Bank of England charter before the commons. In doing so he stated at
great length the terms on which government had determined to consent to
a renewal of that charter; after which he laid the following-resolutions
on the table of the house, that they might be considered:--"That it is
the opinion of the committee, that it is expedient to continue to
the Bank of England, for a limited period, the enjoyment of certain
privileges now vested in law in that corporation, subject to provisions
to be hereafter made: That provided the Bank of England continued
liable, as at present, to defray, in the current coin of the realm,
all its existing engagements, it was expedient that its promissory note
should be constituted a legal tender for sums of £5 and upward: That
one-fourth part of the debt at present due by the public to the Bank be
repaid during the present session of parliament: That the allowances
to the Bank on the management of the national debt, and other public
business be continued, subject to an annual deduction of £120,000 from
the remuneration at present assigned for that purpose: That the laws
restricting the interest of money to five per cent, be repealed, so far
as concerned bills not having more than three months to run before they
become due: That it is expedient that royal charters be granted for
the establishment of joint-stock banks, within a certain distance from
London: That all banks should enter into a composition, in lieu of
stamp-duties, at present chargeable at the rate of seven shillings for
every one hundred pounds issued in notes: That it is expedient that a
bill should be introduced into parliament to regulate country banks, the
provisions of which should be such as to encourage joint-stock banking
companies in the country to issue the notes of the Bank of England."
These resolutions were moved on the 1st of June, and the first of them
was met by an amendment to the effect of delaying the consideration
of the measure till the ensuing session. The opposition proceeded
principally from members hostile to the renewal of the privileges of
the Bank; and to that hostility they now added objections to particular
parts of the proposed plan. They demanded delay in order that there
might be more full inquiry, and they contended that such inquiry would
make it manifest, that the exclusive privileges of the Bank ought not
to be renewed. The amendment, however, was lost by three hundred
and sixteen to eighty-three, and the first resolution, affirming the
propriety of continuing the privileges of the Bank was agreed to without
a division. The second resolution, making the notes of the Bank of
England a legal tender for sums of £5 and upwards was opposed still more
energetically, as being both unnecessary and mischievous; but it was
carried by a majority of fifty-eight. Lord Althorp, however, agreed so
far to modify the proposal as to make it incumbent to pay all £5
notes in gold, if demanded. To the resolution which provided for the
continuance of remuneration, a counter resolution was moved, to the
effect that it was, in the opinion of the committee, expedient that
the remuneration now insured by law to the Bank of England for the
management of the public debt and other public business should cease;
but this was also lost by a large majority. The sixth and eighth
resolutions, which went to regulate the establishment of joint-stock
banking companies were abandoned for the present, Lord Althorp
conceiving that the opposition was so strong that he should not be able
to carry them, at least during this session. A bill founded on these
resolutions was brought in and read the first and second time without a
division. On the motion for going into the committee, Mr. Gisborne moved
as an amendment that the committee should be taken that day six months;
but this was lost by a majority of one hundred and nineteen against
forty. In the committee multifarious amendments were proposed, but
without success. One alteration, however, was made by ministers
themselves. They had believed that the existing law prohibited
deposit-banks, no less than banks of issue, consisting of more than six
partners, from being established in the metropolis, or within a short
distance of it; but the solicitor-general had now satisfied himself
that, as the law stood, no such restriction existed, and a clause was
introduced declaring such to be, and to have been the law, although
there were legal opinions the other way, and although the Bank, and all
mercantile men, had acted on the belief that the restriction did exist.
As the bill passed the commons, its chief provisions were, a monthly
publication of the Bank accounts; the repayment of a portion of its
capital; a partial repeal of the usury laws which impeded its action; an
annual payment of £120,000 in return for privileges conceded; its
notes made a legal tender except at the Bank itself, or its branches;
a quarterly return of the amount of circulation of all other banks; and
certain regulations for the improvement of joint-stock banks. The bill
passed the upper house without alterations: an amendment moved by Lord
Whynford to leave out the declaratory clause regarding deposit-banks, as
being contrary to law, mercantile understanding, and good faith, having
been rejected. Government, also, refused to allow the opinion of the
judges to be taken regarding the legality of such companies under the
existing law.


EAST INDIA QUESTION.

Another monopoly with which the government had to deed was that of
the East India Company, their charter approaching its termination.
The arrangements which government proposed should be adopted with the
company were explained in a committee of the whole house by Mr.
C. Grant, on the 13th of June. He stated first that the political
government of India was to be continued in the hands of the company
for some time longer; the reasons for it being the good which
that government had done. That there were evils in the system of
administration in India he would admit; but he argued, that they were
more than counterbalanced by the security of life and property, which
had been secured to the natives by the rule of the company. The next
great question was, he said, the company's monopoly of the trade with
China. Public opinion had decided that it should no longer exist; and it
was only justice to the expression of the public opinion in this case to
state that it was not the clamour of the moment--that it was the voice
of an enlightened community formed during a succession of years. After
detailing various facts, to show that from the competition of private
traders the monopoly of the company could not long continue, even if
parliament did not interfere, Mr. Grant said that government proposed
the monopoly should cease in April, 1834, and that the trade to
China should then be open to all the merchants of this country. In
consideration of the East India Company surrendering all its rights and
privileges, Mr. Grant said it was proposed that the government of India
should be continued in the hands of the company for the period of twenty
years, and that an annuity of £630,000 per annum should be granted to
them, to be charged on the territory of India. At the end of twenty
years, he said, if the East India Company should be deprived of
the government of India, then the payment of their capital might be
demanded; and if not, the payment of the annuity was to be continued
for forty years. He explained further, that certain alterations were
likewise to be introduced in the frame of the government of India; and
he said that he should further have to call the attention of the house
to the state of the ecclesiastical establishments in that country. He
concluded by moving the following resolutions:--"That it is expedient
that all his majesty's subjects should be at liberty to repair to the
ports of the empire of China, and to trade in tea and in all other
productions in the said empire, subject to such regulations as
parliament shall enact for the protection of the commercial and
political interests of this country: That it is expedient that, in case
the East India Company shall transfer to the crown, on behalf of the
Indian territory, all assets and claims of every description belonging
to the said company, the crown on behalf of the Indian territory, shall
take on itself all the obligations of the said company, of whatever
description; and that the said company shall receive from the revenues
of the said territory such a sum, and paid in such a manner as
parliament shall enact: That it is expedient that the governments of
the British possessions in India be entrusted to the said company,
under such conditions and regulations as parliament shall enact, for the
purpose of extending the commerce of this country, and of securing the
good government, and promoting the moral and religious improvement
of the people of India." These resolutions were agreed to without any
opposition; and on the 5th of July they passed the lords without a
division, although they were sternly opposed by Lord Ellenborough, who
denounced the whole scheme as being a crude and ill-digested plan, the
offspring of unfounded theories, formed by men who knew nothing, and
desired to know nothing of India. À bill was subsequently brought
into the house of commons founded on the resolutions, and, after some
unsuccessful motions of amendment, was carried. In the upper house Lord
Ellenborough renewed his opposition, and moved, "That all provisions
in the bill, which went to alter the existing laws in the East Indian
presidencies, should be omitted." This amendment, however, was not
pressed to a division; and the bill was finally passed. One of the
greatest advantages which the public gained by this important measure,
was that which opened a rich field for the enterprise and industry of
our merchants by destroying the monopoly of the trade in tea. Facilities
for conducting this branch of commerce, together with a considerable
relief from taxation on the article of tea, was given try a subsequent
bill for regulating its importation. It must be confessed, indeed, that
the adoption of this measure by parliament was highly beneficial to
the interests of the community at large. By it the long and complicated
account between commerce and territory was settled; the pernicious union
of imperial and economical functions in the body of proprietors of East
India stock was at an end; every office under the company was thrown
open to British subjects without distinction, and the whole of India was
opened to European enterprise and European capital. A grand feature of
the bill, also, was that which provided for extending the influence and
utility of the Anglo-Indian church.


ABOLITION OF SLAVERY IN THE COLONIES.

{WILLIAM IV. 1832-1833}

At the commencement of this session, the minds of reflecting persons
were fixed with intense anxiety on the subject of West India slavery.
The excitement attending the reform act, indeed, had not been neglected
by the friends of emancipation. Meetings were held and petitions got up:
and government found themselves under the necessity of framing a measure
for the gradual abolition of the trade in the bones and the sinews of
man. The subject was brought before the commons by Mr. Stanley on the
14th of May, when he explained the ministerial scheme in a committee of
the whole house. Government, he said, impelled by the force of public
opinion, resolved to propose a plan which would insure the extinction
of slavery, and manumit not only future generations, but likewise the
existing generation, providing at the same time against the dangers of
a sudden transition. It was proposed, he said, to place the slave for a
limited time in an intermediate state of apprenticeship. He was to enter
into a contract, by which his master would be bound to give him food
and clothing, or in lieu thereof a pecuniary allowance; for which
consideration he, on his part, was to give his master three-fourths of
his time in labour, leaving it to be settled between them whether that
should be for three-fourths of the week or of each day. The remaining
fourth of his time, Mr. Stanley said, the slave would be at liberty to
transfer his labour elsewhere; but if he were inclined to give it to
his master, then his master would be obliged to find him employment
according to a fixed rate of wages. It was a difficult point, he said,
to settle the scale of wages; and he could devise no better mode than
that of compelling the planter to fix a price on the labourer at the
time of his apprenticeship, and by enacting that the wages to be paid by
the master should bear such a proportion to the price fixed by him, that
for the whole of his spare time he should receive one-twelfth of his
price annually. In this manner, he said, the slave and his master would
both act in reference to each other: if the master fixed a high price
on his negro, he would have to pay him proportionate wages; and if a low
price, then upon the payment of that price by any other person on
his behalf, the negro would be free. This measure, he continued, must
necessarily occasion loss to many of the West Indian proprietors; and,
as it was not fitting that they alone should lose by the destruction
of this species of property, the legality of which had at least been
recognised by parliament, ministers proposed to advance to the West
Indian body a loan to the amount of ten years' purchase of their annual
profits on sugars, rum, and coffee, which would amount to £15,000,000.
It was for parliament to say in what manner, and upon what condition,
that loan should be repaid to the country; it might be considered equal
to one-fourth of the proceeds of the slaves' labour; and with that sum
and the other three-fourths of his labour, the planter, at the end of
twelve years, would have received a just compensation for the price of
his slave, and for all the expense to which the slave might have put him
for food and clothing. It was right, however, to state that during that
time the planter would have to pay interest for his loan, and to that
amount, perhaps, he might be the loser. In conclusion, Mr. Stanley said,
he would call upon the house to aid the local legislatures in the West
Indies in establishing schools for the religious and moral education of
the slave population. He moved the following resolutions:--"That it is
the opinion of this committee that immediate and effectual measures be
taken for the entire abolition of slavery throughout the colonies,
under such provisions for regulating the condition of the negroes as may
combine their welfare with the interest of the proprietors: That it is
expedient that all children born after the passing of any act, or who
shall be under the age of six years at the time of passing any act of
parliament for this purpose, be declared free, subject, nevertheless, to
such temporary restrictions as may be deemed necessary for their
support and maintenance: That all persons now slaves be entitled to
be registered as apprenticed labourers, and to acquire thereby all
the rights and privileges of free men subject to the restriction of
labouring under conditions, and for a time to be fixed by parliament,
for their present owners: That, to provide against the risk of loss
which proprietors in his majesty's colonial possessions might sustain
by the abolition of slavery, his majesty be enabled to advance by way of
loan, to be raised from time to time, a sum not exceeding in the whole
£15,000,000, to be paid in such manner, and at such rate of interest, as
shall be prescribed by parliament: That his majesty be enabled to
defray any such expense as he may incur in establishing an efficient
stipendiary magistracy in the colonies, and in aiding the local
legislatures in providing for the religious and moral education of
the negro population to be emancipated." The consideration of these
resolutions was adjourned to the 30th of May. On that day the first
resolution, after considerable debate on the character of the planters,
and on the subject of the compensation to be given to them, was agreed
to without a division. Sir Robert Peel said that he would have preferred
a declaratory resolution, it appearing to him that the co-operation
of the colonial legislative was indispensable to tire success of
the measure. He doubted the policy of using the words "immediate and
effectual measures shall be taken for the entire abolition of slavery
throughout the colonies;" they were calculated to raise expectations
unwarranted by the measure; it was a great evil in establishing a
preliminary resolution. The first impression of any man upon reading
this resolution, and especially the first impression of an illiterate
and ignorant man would be this:--"You never meant to subject me to
coerced labour for twelve years." The second resolution also passed
without a division; but the third, which involved the principle of the
compulsory apprenticeship, was met with a direct negative by Mr. Fowell
Buxton, on the ground that it was unnecessary and impracticable. It was
founded on this assertion--that emancipated negroes would not work,
or, at least, would not work more than was necessary to supply the mere
wants of life. This opinion he showed by facts was ill-grounded; and
he proved to demonstration that the negroes, if free, would work
more cheerfully than while enslaved. He moved that the resolution be
rejected. He was supported by Mr. Halcomb and Buford Howick, the latter
of whom said that it was not necessary as a groundwork for future
proceedings; and that, on the other hand, if the house agreed to it,
they would pledge themselves to a system of apprenticeship of which they
did not yet know the full effect. This was dealing rather hardly by the
house; government should avoid calling upon the house, at this stage of
the proceeding, distinctly to pledge themselves to do that of which
they had not yet heard a satisfactory account. It was easy to talk of
apprenticing negroes; but the plan was neither more nor less than a
subversion of the existing relations of society in the colonies, and
organising an untried system, the adoption of which must be attended
with difficulties. His objection to the provision was, that the labour
of the negro was, for the greater part of his time, to be obtained by
direct compulsion; his opinion was that the negroes would be in a worse
condition at the termination of the experiment than they were at the
present moment. Ministers replied that the question was not, as it
had been represented, merely one of gradual or immediate abolition; no
matter what might be the period of apprenticeship, whether ten or twelve
years, from the moment the bill passed, slavery in the British colonies,
in its offensive and essential features, was for ever annihilated.
The bill recognised the rights of property; it conferred freedom from
corporal punishment; it respected the domestic ties of the negro in
their tenderest relations; and it ensured to him a considerable portion
of the fruits of his own labour: with these great enactments surely it
was not too much to say that slavery, in its obnoxious features,
could not be said to exist. Mr. Buxton, having been assured that the
resolution did not bind the house to any particular period of compulsory
labour, withdrew his motion to reject it, and proposed to insert
words declaring that the labour was to be for wages. He withdrew this
likewise; but Mr. O'Connell insisted on dividing the house on
the original resolution, when it was carried by three hundred and
twenty-four to forty-two. The fourth resolution, respecting the
compensation to planters, was attended with still greater difficulty.
The original proposal was a loan of £15,000,000, for which they were to
pay interest; but ministers found such stern opposition from the West
India planters, that they were compelled to convert this loan into
an absolute payment of £20,000,000. Mr. Stanley, after admitting the
difficulty of ascertaining what the amount of compensation ought to be,
moved that "Towards the compensation of the West India proprietors,
his majesty be enabled to grant a sum not exceeding £20,000,000, to be
appropriated as parliament may hereafter think fit." This proposition
called forth much opposition and many amendments; but it was
finally earned by a majority of two hundred and ninety-six against
seventy-seven. The fifth and last resolution was carried by a majority
of two hundred and ninety-six against seventy-seven; and the whole were
then sent to the peers, who agreed to them on the 25th of June. On the
motion for going into committee on the bill brought in pursuant to
the resolutions, Mr. Buxton again discussed the question of compulsory
apprenticeships. He moved, that it be an instruction to the committee
that they shall not, for the sake of the pecuniary interests of the
masters, impose any restraint or obligation on the negro which shall not
be necessary for his own welfare, and for the general peace and order
of society; and that they shall limit the duration of any temporary
restrictions which may be imposed upon the freedom of the negroes,
to the shortest period which may be necessary to establish, on just
principles, the system of free labour for adequate wages. He was
supported by Lord Howick and Mr. Macaulay, who before had opposed him
on the same question, but who now declared that he had an insurmountable
objection to the transition state, which was to be interposed between
the cessation of slavery and complete freedom. If it could be proved,
he said, that any restraint was proposed, the effect of which was to
improve the morals of the negro, to promote his habits of industry, and
to enable him better to discharge the duties of a freeman and citizen,
he would give his assent to such a restraint; but he thought that the
restraint was not laid upon the negro, as it ought to be, with the sole
view of improving his character: one of the objects was, not his own
advantage, but as a compensation to the planter. In reply, Mr. Stanley
said that the compensation was of two sorts: one was a sum to be paid
down now for the remission of one-fourth of the labour of the slave, and
the whole would be paid by the end of twelve years, when the negro would
be completely free. The sum to be paid to the colonies was taken with
reference to the estimated value of the slave, and to the interest of
money: taking that value at £30,000,000 for 800,000 slaves, would give
£37 10s. for each. It was not extravagant to say that such a sum was
about the average value of a slave. He went on to say that one-fourth of
the labour of the negro was to be taken from the master, and placed at
the disposal of the negro himself; but for the remaining three-fourths
he was to be maintained by the master. Now the maintenance, taken at
a moderate average, was calculated at fifty shillings each; this for
800,000 negroes would be £2,000,000 per annum, and the one-fourth of
this would be £500,000; and this at the end of twelve years would make a
great difference in the sum to be paid to the master. Calculations would
show that if the value of £30,000,000, or £37 10s. each were taken, and
the interest of money calculated at six per cent., the sum to be paid
to the master would be £27,000,000; but if the value of the slaves
were taken at £24,000,000, and the interest of money at six per cent.,
£15,000,000 would be the sum to be paid to him. Besides this, the
allowance for the advances for the support of the slave would, at ten
per cent., amount to £3,406,000; at eight per cent., to £3,786,000; and
at six per cent, to £4,900,000. This would show that the apprenticeship
materially came into the account, in estimating the compensation to the
master for his loss; and the compensation would not be made in a state
of slavery, but in a state of comparative freedom. Mr. Stanley said that
if the West India proprietors were asked what they thought of the plan
of apprenticeship, they would say that they could not go on without it;
and that without the application of such a principle in the bill, the
colonies would go to ruin, and the proprietors be reduced to beggary.
In fact, he said, if Mr. Buxton's motion should be carried, he must
be prepared to see the whole frame of civilization in the colonies
destroyed, and a state of things brought about which, however they
might in time settle down into some improvement, must at least begin in
barbarism. On a division, Mr. Buxton's amendment was lost by a majority
of only seven, one hundred and fifty-one having voted for it, and
one hundred and fifty-eight against it. The result of this division
convinced government that they must make some concession on this point;
and on the following day Mr. Stanley resolved to reduce the period of
prodial apprenticeship from twelve years to seven, and of non-prodial
from seven to five years. This was adopted, and clauses were added,
empowering the commissioners for the management of the national debt to
raise the money by a loan, specifying the manner in which the operation
was to be conducted after which the bill passed. In the upper-house some
amendments were added to the bill, which did not affect its substance,
and these were finally agreed to by the commons. Thus the dark spot of
slavery was wiped out of the British annals; we had no slaves at home,
and now it was nobly resolved that we should have none abroad--that
wherever Britain's power was felt, mankind should feel her mercy also.


FACTORY BILL.

During the former session, Mr. Sadleir had introduced a bill for
shortening and regulating the employment of children of certain ages in
cotton and other factories, and protecting them against maltreatment, to
which it was alleged they had long been exposed. Evidence had been taken
regarding the subject matter of the bill before a committee of the
house of commons, and in this session a similar measure to that of Mr.
Sadleir's was introduced by Lord Ashley. The bill was opposed by the
great body of the manufacturing capitalists, many of whom had been sent
into the house by the reform act, and who possessed powerful interest
out of it. Mr. Patten moved an address to the king to name a royal
commission, for the purpose of collecting evidence anew, founding his
motion on the ground that the evidence taken before the committee was
partial, defective, and untrue. Lord Ashley, and others, contended that
this motion was not only uncalled for, but would be detrimental: fresh
inquiry was needless, inasmuch as the house was in a condition to
legislate on the subject, not only in consequence of the information
obtained from the committee of last year, but also of that furnished by
the other house of parliament. Mr. Patten's motion was negatived, and
the bill was read a second time; and then ministers, alarmed at the
probable success of a measure which, as it stood, would seriously
interfere with the manufacturers of the country, arrayed themselves
more openly against it. Lord Althorp opposed the motion for going into
committee, and moved, "That the bill be referred to a select committee,
with this instruction--that the committee should make provision in said
bill, that no children who had not entered into their fourteenth year
should be allowed to work for more than eight hours a-day; and that in
the intervals of their labour, care should be taken for their education,
and that inspection of the mills should take place, in order to secure
the operation of the above provisions." This motion was rejected,
and Lord Ashley's bill was carried into committee, by one hundred and
sixty-four to one hundred and forty-one. Government, however, did not
give up its opposition. The bill had adopted ten hours as the maximum of
labour daily, which extended to all persons under eighteen years of age;
and when the second clause, which involved the principle, was moved in
committee, Lord Althorp opposed it. He proposed as an amendment, that
instead of the word "eighteen," the word "thirteen" should be inserted;
expressing, at the same time, his intention of following that up by
substituting "eight" instead of "ten". The amendment was carried by a
large majority, and Lord Ashley abandoned the bill to the chancellor
of the exchequer, in whose hands its enactments were considerably
mitigated. As altered, the bill provided that the labour of children in
factories under thirteen years of age should be limited to eight instead
of ten hours a-day; that the provisions of Sir J. Hobhouse's bill should
be extended to other mills besides cotton mills; and that persons under
eighteen years of age should not be required to work more than sixty
hours in the week. It also provided that it should be illegal to
employ any children under nine years of age; that inspectors should be
appointed to see that the provisions of the bill are duly enforced;
and contained provisions for introducing a general system of education
amongst the children in all the manufacturing districts. In the
committee Mr. Wood proposed an amendment, to the effect, that at the
expiration of six months after the passing of the act, no child under
eleven years of age should be permitted to work more than eight hours
a-day; that no child under the age of twelve years should be permitted,
after the expiration of eighteen months from the passing of the bill, to
work for more than eight hours a-day; and that after the expiration
of two years from the passing of the bill, no child under the age of
thirteen years should be permitted to work more than eight hours a-day.
This amendment was opposed by Lord Althorp, on the ground that it would
postpone the operation of the measure, but it was carried against him
and it formed a part of the measure.


THE CORN LAWS.

The people had long been taught to consider the corn laws as unjust
monopolies, which enriched the landowner, by depriving the poor of
"cheap bread," and they firmly expected that reforming ministers and a
reformed parliament would forthwith abolish them. Ministers, however,
were not inclined to take up the question, and parliament was not yet
prepared to respond to the general demand. On the 17th of May, Mr.
Whitmore moved the following resolutions:--"That the present system of
corn laws, founded on a high and ever-varying scale of duties, while
it fails of conferring permanent benefit on the agricultural interest,
tends to cramp the trade, and impair the general prosperity of this
country; that an alteration of these laws, substituting in their stead
a moderate duty, fixed at all periods except those of extreme dearth,
while it indemnified the agriculturists for the peculiar burthens which
press upon them, would, by restoring the commercial relations between
this kingdom and foreign countries, increase the manufactures, and
render more equal the price of the produce of the country." Lord Althorp
objected to the resolutions principally on account of the time at which
they were brought forward, considering the many important questions
which yet remained for the consideration of parliament; he therefore
moved the previous question, which was carried by three hundred and five
against two hundred and six. A few days previously certain resolutions
relative to the same question were negatived in the house of lords
without a division; and in the commons, on the 18th of June, a motion
for leave to bring in a bill to alter the corn laws was rejected. The
corn laws, therefore, were yet retained in the British code.


RESOLUTIONS AGAINST BRIBERY, ETC.

The result of the elections showed that the first reformed parliament
had no small quantity of bribery to deal with. The prevention of this
evil, therefore, was an object which a reformed house of commons was
especially bound to secure. On the 6th of February, Lord John Russell
moved the same resolutions which had been adopted by the preceding
house, and which diminished obstacles that stood in the way of
effectually questioning a corrupt election. According to the resolutions
which had hitherto been adopted as the standing orders of the house on
this subject, the return of a member could be questioned only within
fourteen days after the assembling of parliament, or after his return,
if the house were then sitting; and it was the practice of persons who
made use of bribery to secure their elections, not to make any payments
till that period was passed, in order to avoid the penalties attached
to such conduct. In the hope of checking this evil, Lord John Russell
moved, "That all persons who question any future return of members to
serve in parliament upon any allegation of bribery or corruption, and
who shall in their petition specifically allege any payment of money or
other reward to have been made by any member, or on his account, or
with his privity, since the time of such return, in pursuance of, or in
furtherance of, such bribery and corruption, may question the same at
any time within twenty-eight days from the time of such payment; or if
this house be not sitting at the expiration of the said twenty-eight
days, then within fourteen days after the day when the house shall next
meet." This resolution was agreed to, many members regretting that
it did not go further, and maintaining that a bribery-oath should be
administered to the members as well as to the electors. Subsequently
petitions were received from Liverpool, Warwick, Stafford, Hertford,
Londonderry, Carrickfergus, and Newry; and in all these cases it was
proved that gross bribery had been resorted to at the elections.
Writs were suspended for Warwick, and bills were brought in for the
disfranchisement of Stafford, Hertford, and Carrickfergus, while several
individuals were ordered to be criminally prosecuted. As the session
was drawing to a close, the bills were not persevered in before its
termination. An attempt was made by Mr. Grote, one of the members for
the city of London, to establish voting by ballot; that alone, in his
estimation, being the only means of securing purity of election. This,
however, was negatived, after a long and earnest discussion, by two
hundred and eleven against one hundred and six. Another discussion
relative to the constitution arose on a motion by Mr. Tennyson, for
leave to bring in a bill to shorten the duration of parliaments. In
support of his motion, Mr. Tennyson enforced the ordinary topics, that
the septennial act had been passed to meet a temporary emergency; that
it had originally been an exception from the rules of the constitution;
that the consequence of it had been general corruption both among the
electors and the representatives; and that it rendered the members too
independent of their constituents, and in so far defeated the object of
a representative government, and prevented the operation of the public
opinion. There was a difference of opinion, he said, as to the number
of years which ought to be fixed for the duration of parliaments, some
being in favour of five, others of four, and others of three years. He
thought they were bound to consult the general wishes of the people, and
it appeared to him that they were in favour of triennial parliaments. At
the same time, in the bill which he proposed to bring in, he intended
to leave the term of future parliaments unfixed, so that it might form
a subject of debate in committee. His bill contained two clauses, one to
repeal the septennial act, and the other to determine the period of each
parliament's existence. The resistance of the proposition was left to
ministers themselves, and Lord Althorp's mode of getting rid of it was
by moving the previous question. He was ready to acknowledge, he said,
this was a question which he would support, if parliament were in
the same situation as heretofore; but things were now changed, and
he believed that the feelings and opinions of the people were fairly
represented in that house. He did not think, therefore, that the same
necessity existed for abridging the duration of parliaments, as before
the passing of the reform bill. The motion was supported by Messrs.
Cobbett, Kennedy, Shiel, and other members, and opposed by Lord John
Eussell and Mr. Stanley. On a division, the previous question was
carried by a majority of forty-nine, two hundred and thirteen having
voted for it, and one hundred and sixty-four for the motion.


BILL TO REMOVE THE CIVIL DISABILITIES OF JEWS.--PROROGATION OF
PARLIAMENT.

At this period the Jews alone were the only class of the community whose
religion affected their rights. Towards the close of the session Mr.
Goulburn brought in a bill to remove their civil disabilities, and it
passed the commons, but was thrown out on the second reading in the
house of lords. The session was closed on the 29th of August by his
majesty in person, who in his speech touched upon the various important
measures that had this session occupied the attention of parliament. It
may be mentioned that government had recently appointed a commission
for inquiring into the state of corporations, and for digesting into one
body the enactments of the criminal law, and inquiring how far, and by
what means, a similar process might be extended to the other branches of
our jurisprudence. It may also be mentioned that two important acts had
been passed for giving constitutions upon sound principles to the royal
and parliamentary burghs of Scotland, a change by which the whole system
of self-election was entirely abolished. His majesty embraced all these
topics in his speech. On the subject of Ireland his majesty expressed
his regret that coercive measures had been necessary; but he had not
found it desirable, except in a very limited degree, to use the powers
confided to him, and he hoped that the time was not far distant when
repressive laws might be no longer unavoidable.


FOREIGN AFFAIRS.

{WILLIAM IV. 1832-1833}

During this year a prospect of the close of the dreadful calamities
which had so long weighed down the people of Portugal dawned upon
them. At its commencement Oporto still continued to be the scene of
operations; the regent occupying that city, and Don Miguel maintaining
his positions and his battery on the left bank of the river and to the
north of the city itself. The operations continued to consist of
partial bombardments across the river, or engagements of detachments,
occasionally varied by more regular attacks and sallies to destroy works
already erected, or prevent new ones from being raised. There was not
much blood shed, and the results of the operations made no decisive or
permanent change in the relation of the armies to each other. At the
beginning of March, indeed, a battle was fought, in which it was stated
that the Miguelites lost fifteen thousand men, and their adversary only
one hundred; but still it left matters where it found them--Oporto was
still besieged. At length, however, a decisive blow was struck at the
power of Don Miguel on the seas. While the operations on land were going
forward, Don Pedro was involved in a dangerous quarrel with his admiral,
Sartorius, which resulted in his giving up the command of the fleet,
and with his being replaced by another British officer, Captain Napier.
Under his command an expedition sailed to the Algarves, the most
southern province of the kingdom, having on board two thousand five
hundred men, commanded by the Duke of Terceira, for the purpose of
invading that part of the country. The cities of Tavira, Faro, and Lagos
were soon captured, and in the course of a week the whole province
of Algarves was in possession of Don Pedro. But a still heavier blow
awaited Don Miguel. Admiral Napier, having disembarked the troops and
witnessed their success, set sail to return to the mouth of the Tagus to
watch the squadron of Don Miguel, or bring it to battle. He fell in with
it on the 2nd of July, off Cape St. Vincent, and a battle ensued, in
which the squadron of Don Miguel was annihilated. He had now only the
land to trust to, and there he was soon defeated. Having regained the
province of Algarves, the Duke of Terceira marched towards Lisbon, and
having reached the left bank of the Tagus he was encountered by an army
said to have consisted of five thousand men, under the command of Talles
Jordao. The battle was brief, and the victory complete: Jordao was
routed, his army scattered, and he himself killed. The effect of the
battle was to put Don Pedro's troops in possession of Lisbon: they
entered unmolested on the 24th of July, and Donna Maria was immediately
proclaimed Queen of Portugal. As soon as Don Pedro received intelligence
of what had taken place at Lisbon, he sailed from Oporto to assume
the government. The war was now transferred to Lisbon; and a series of
battles took place between the troops of Don Pedro and those of Miguel,
and the year closed before the contest was decided. Donna Maria,
however, ruled in Portugal, and a British minister again presented
himself at the court of the rightful sovereign of the country. The
English government at the same time strictly adhered to the neutrality
which it had imposed on itself; but, taught by experience, it did not
trust to assurances of the same line of conduct from other powers, and
especially from the court of Madrid. It prepared itself, indeed, for
all events, by sending a powerful squadron under Admiral Parker to the
Tagus, with orders to take an active part for Don Pedro the moment a
Spanish force should appear in Portugal to assist Don Miguel.

Early in this year Greece received her youthful monarch. Otho was
welcomed by the various chiefs and populace with all due marks of
respect and obedience; and awakening from the torpor of ages, Greece
took her place among the civilized nations of Europe. The kingdom was
divided into ten departments:--1. Argolis and Corinth; 2. Achaia and
Elis; 3. Messene; 4. Arcadia; 5. Laconia; 6. Acarnania and Ætolia; 7.
Locris and Phocis; 8. Attica and Beotia; 9. Eubcea; 10. the Cyclades.
The local government of each department was assisted by a council; and
at the head of each circle or district into which they were subdivided,
was placed an eparch, with a distinct board. The first acts of the
government were to disband the irregular troops, to organise a new
and regular army, and to endeavour to provide something like an
administration of justice. The disbanding of the irregular troops,
however, did not contribute to the internal tranquillity of the country;
on the contrary, it threw large numbers of savage men out of employment,
and many of them formed themselves into bands for the purposes of
plunder. One of these bands sacked the Turkish town of Arta, in Epirus
slaughtering the inhabitants, and setting their houses on fire. The
massacre lasted three days; after which the marauders, laden with booty,
took refuge in the mountains.

While Turkey was thus shorn of one of her European provinces, she was
doomed to see a rebellious, but victorious vassal make himself master
of her Asiatic territories. Ibrahim Pacha, who had during the last year
opened a way across Mount Taurus, lost no time in descending into the
plains of Caramania. Here he fought a great battle with the Turkish
troops, under the command of the grand vizier, Redschid Pacha, whom he
utterly defeated and took prisoner. Constantinople was almost at his
mercy; there was no obstacle between Ibrahim and the shores of the
Bosphorus; and he seemed to be only waiting for the arrival of fresh
troops, which were on their march through Syria to join him, to traverse
Anatolia and assail the capital. The danger, however, was averted by
the exertions of the British government, assisted by that of France. The
Egyptian army retired from Asia Minor; and the Russians, whom the Sultan
had called in for its defence, and from whom he was in no less danger
than from the sword of Ibrahim, left Constantinople. By a treaty which
was concluded between the Sultan and Mehemet Ali, the former gave up
the whole of Syria, granting at the same time an amnesty to all its
inhabitants for the conduct which they might have followed during the
expedition of Ibrahim. The Pasha of Egypt became by this treaty more
powerful than the master from whom he had revolted; his rule extended
from the limits of Asia Minor to the mouth of the Nile. A treaty was
subsequently concluded between the Porte and Russia, in which the
preponderating power of the latter was fully established. Russia was
to aid the sultan in repressing all disturbances, and the sultan was
to shut the Dardanelles, in particular circumstances, against all other
nations. Both England and France complained that such a treaty had been
concluded without their concurrence, and each of them had a fleet near
the Sea of Marmora; but their remonstrances were unheeded, and their
fleets returned. The popular and prophetic belief of the Byzantines,
namely, that "the Russians in the last days should become masters of
Constantinople," seemed to be rapidly approaching its fulfilment.

The Belgian question had its origin in events antecedent to the
formation of the present British cabinet, so that ministers were
compelled to follow a course which had been adopted by their
predecessors. When the revolution first broke forth in the Netherlands,
the king called on his allies for troops. These were refused by the
English government; but his next request, for the assembling of a
conference, was granted. By subsequent acts of that assembly, the
principle of separation between the two countries was established; and
the task imposed on the present government was to settle the terms on
which a separation should take place, so as to provide for the interest
and security of all parties. The difficulties encountered in performing
this task arose from the obstinacy of the Dutch monarch. By the
armistice which his majesty had invoked in November, 1830, the citadel
of Antwerp was to be evacuated in fifteen days; but the possession of
that fortress enabled him to harass the Belgians, and to intercept their
trade on the Scheldt, and therefore he refused to give it up. England
and France, failing to obtain the co-operation of the other three
powers, were obliged to have recourse to force: Antwerp was besieged
by the French troops, and an embargo was laid on Dutch vessels by Great
Britain. These vigorous measures disconcerted all the calculations of
the Dutch monarch and of his partizans. At the beginning of this year
Antwerp, supposed to have been impregnable, surrendered to Marshal
Gerard. This event, together with the embargo laid on Dutch vessels,
produced the convention of the 21st of May, by which the Belgian
question was settled. This convention provided, "That immediately on the
ratifications being exchanged, the embargoes laid on by Great Britain
and France should be removed, and the vessels and cargoes restored, and
that the Dutch garrison which had defended the citadel of Antwerp should
return to Holland with all their arms and baggage: That Holland should
not recommence hostilities against Belgium so long as a definite treaty
had not settled their mutual relations; that the navigation of the
Scheldt should be free, which was explained in a supplementary article
to mean, that it was to be placed on the same footing as it had been
prior to the 1st of November, 1812: That the navigation of the Meuse
should be opened, subject to the provisions of the convention of Mayence
of the 31st of March, 1831, relative to the navigation of the Rhine:
That the communications between the frontier of North Brabant and
Maestricht, and between that fortress and Germany, should be unimpeded:
That the contracting parties should occupy themselves immediately with
the definitive treaty, to which Austria, Prussia, and Russia should be
invited to become parties." The King of Holland having agreed to these
articles, the principal point of discussion remaining was that of
compensation: in the meantime Europe was secured against the danger of
a general war, arising from the differences which had existed between
Holland and Belgium.


CHAPTER XLIV.

{WILLIAM IV. 1834}

     _Meeting of Parliament..... Mr. O'Connell's Motion for the
     Repeal of the Union..... Divisions in the Cabinet.....
     Commission issued to inquire into the state of the Irish
     Church..... Irish Tithe Question..... Renewal  of Irish
     Coercion Bill..... Resignation of Earl Grey, etc......
     Rejection of the Irish Tithe Bill by the  Peers..... State
     of Ecclesiastical Questions, and the Claims of
     Dissenters..... Poor Laws Amendment Act..... The Corn-Law
     Question..... Financial Statements, etc...... Bill for the
     Removal of the Civil Disabilities of the Jews, etc......
     Disputes with France regarding the Newfoundland  Fisheries,
     etc...... Steam Navigation..... Prorogation of
     Parliament..... Dissolution of the Cabinet..... Sir Robert
     Peel appointed Prime-Minister..... Dissolution of
     Parliament..... The Act abolishing Slavery in the West
     Indies carried into effect..... The Affairs of Ireland.....
     State of the Continent, etc._


MEETING OF PARLIAMENT.

{A.D. 1834}

On the 4th of February the session was opened by the king in person. In
his speech his majesty alluded to the slavery abolition bill introduced
last year, stating that the manner in which that beneficent measure had
been received throughout the colonies, and the progress made in carrying
it into effect by the legislature of Jamaica, afforded just grounds for
anticipating the happiest results. Among the various important subjects
still calling for consideration, his majesty enumerated reports from
the commissioners appointed to inquire into the state of municipal
corporations, into the administration of the poor laws, and into
the ecclesiastical revenues of England and Wales. His majesty also
recommended the early consideration of such a final adjustment of the
tithes in Ireland as might extinguish all just causes of complaint,
without injury to the rights and property of any class of his subjects,
or to any institution in church or state. Concerning the state of
Ireland, his majesty remarked that the public tranquillity had been
generally observed, and that the state of Ireland presented a more
favourable appearance than at any period during the last year. The
speech then reverted to the agitations in Ireland for the repeal of the
legislative union, which it denounced in the strongest terms. The
chief point in our foreign policy noticed by the king related to the
government of Spain. He remarked:--"Upon the death of the late King
of Spain, I did not hesitate to recognise the succession of his infant
daughter; and I shall watch with the greatest solicitude the progress of
events which may affect a government, the peaceable settlement of which
is of the utmost importance to this country, as well as to the general
tranquillity of Europe." On the motion for an address in the house of
lords, the whole policy of government, both domestic and foreign, was
vehemently attacked by the Duke of Wellington, but no amendment was
moved. In the commons, Mr. Hume, in opposition to the address said, that
although there was a great deal in the speech about the independence
of Turkey, and something about Portugal, &c, yet there was not one word
about poor tax-ridden England. He moved an amendment to the effect, that
the house would pledge itself to take into its immediate and serious
consideration the state of the established church, as regarded its
temporalities and the maintenance of the clergy, and also with a view to
the removal of complaints which arose out of the mode in which tithe and
church-rates were levied, in order to accomplish such changes as might
give effectual relief both to churchmen and dissenters. This amendment
was negatived by a large majority; and another, altering the paragraph
in the address to his majesty, expressive of the satisfaction of the
house at the "uninterrupted enjoyment of the blessings of peace,"
shared the same fate. Mr. O'Connell moved that the clause referring to
the agitation for the repeal of the union should be omitted; but this
was also negatived by an overwhelming majority. On the bringing up
of the report on the address, an incidental discussion arose on the
coercion bill of last session, which gave rise to an extraordinary
scene, and to the committal of Lord Althorp and Mr. Shiel to the custody
of the serjeant-at-arms. A charge had been made by Mr. Hill, one of the
members for Hull, that one of the Irish members who had voted against
the coercion bill, went secretly to one of the ministers, urging him not
to bate a single jot of that bill, or it would be impossible for any man
to live in Ireland. Mr. O'Connell referred to this charge, and he put
two questions to the chancellor of the exchequer respecting it--namely,
whether he, or any other member of the cabinet, had ever stated that an
Irish member had acted in such a manner, and whether any Irish member
ever went to the noble lord, or any other minister, and made the
statement which had been imputed to him. Lord Althorp replied in the
negative to both these questions; but, he added, that he should not act
a manly part, if he did not declare that he had good reason to believe
that more than one Irish member who voted and spoke against the bill,
did in private conversation use very different language. A scene of
confusion and crimination then ensued, in which Lord Althorp charged Mr.
Shiel with being one of the gentlemen who had so acted, which Mr. Shiel
denied in terms which left the house under the impression that a duel
between those two members would ensue. Upon the motion of Sir Francis
Burdett, both were placed under arrest until assurances were given that
the matter should not lead to the apprehended results. Subsequently a
committee of privileges was appointed to examine into this affair, and
it appearing to the committee that there was no evidence to establish
the charge, they made their report in favour of Mr. Shiel. Mr. Hill
himself, finding that he had been deceived, acknowleged his error; and
Lord Althorp said, that if Mr. Shiel would distinctly say that he had
not done what his lordship had stated he had done, he should be bound to
believe his assertion. Mr. Shiel readily made this statement, and thus
ended this ridiculous interlude. Many believe that the subject was
obtruded upon the house as much from a hope of embarrassing a rival in
the work of agitation, as from a desire to vindicate the character of
a friend. The public in general, however, looked on the matter with
indifference.


MR. O'CONNELL'S MOTION FOR THE REPEAL OF THE UNION.

Mr. O'Connell had long made his boast in Ireland, that he would
bring forward the question of the repeal of the union in the British
parliament. His courage, from his non-performance of this promise, began
to be doubted; and to save his credit, he was obliged to bring himself
to trial. On the first day of the sessions he had given notices of
two motions: one that the house should take the act of union into
consideration, with a view to its repeal; the other for the appointment
of a "select committee to inquire and report on the means by which the
dissolution of parliament was effected--on the effects of that measure
upon Ireland, and upon the labourers in husbandry, and the manufacturers
in England--and on the probable consequences of continuing the
legislative union between both countries." He proceeded only with the
last of the two motions, and he brought that forward on the 22nd of
April. He commenced by declaring that there had never existed a greater
mistake than to suppose that England possessed any right of dominion
over the former country. He then entered at great length into the
incompetency of parliament to pass the act of union; and having detailed
the means by which it was accomplished, he proceeded to prove that the
financial and legislative terms on which the great question had been
settled were in their very nature fraudulent and unjust. Looking at
these circumstances, he said, he dreaded the probable consequences of a
continuance of the union. Ireland felt strongly on the subject; and he
demanded that the bitter recollection of the past should be for ever
effaced by the restoration of her people to their inalienable rights.
Mr. O'Connell was answered at great length by Mr. Spring Rice, who
enumerated the manifold advantages gained by Ireland from the union.
He moved, therefore, that an address be presented to his majesty,
expressive of the fixed and steady determination of the commons to
maintain inviolate the legislative union between Great Britain and
Ireland--a determination to be justified, not only on general grounds,
but by reasons of special application to Ireland itself; declaring also,
that while the house endeavoured to remove all just causes of complaint
alleged by the Irish people, it would promote every well-considered
measure of rational liberty. The debate on the subject was continued by
adjournment for several days. The members who took part in it were--for
the original motion, Messrs. O'Connor, Barron, Ruthven, Shiel, and
others; and for the amendment, Messrs. Tennent, Littleton, Sandford,
Lambert, and Sir Robert Peel, and others. Perhaps the most effective
speech was that which was delivered by Sir Robert Peel, who said, he
believed that no array of official documents, and no force of argument,
could strengthen the conviction of the great majority of the house--a
conviction that lay deeper than any argument could reach--that they
would on no account consent to dismember the British empire. There were
convictions connected with the feelings of the heart as well as with the
faculties of the mind. Mr. Canning had said, "Repeal the union! re-enact
the heptarchy!" The security of the empire depended on the maintenance
of that union; without it England would be reduced to the condition of
a fourth-rate power in Europe, and Ireland to the desolation of a
wilderness. On a division the amendment was carried by the triumphant
majority of five hundred and twenty-three against thirty-eight; the
minority, with one exception only, consisting of Irish members. On the
30th of April the commons, in a conference, communicated their
address to the lords, who, in one spirit, unanimously concurred in
its sentiments, and ordered the blank, which was purposely left, to be
filled up with the words, "lords spiritual and temporal." It was then
presented to the king as the joint address of both houses; and his
majesty, in reply, expressed the great satisfaction with which he had
received the solemn and united declaration of both houses to maintain
the union inviolate.


DIVISIONS IN THE CABINET.

In opposing the repeal of the union, ministers carried along with them
the sense and feeling of the people; that was a question on which no
man differed from them except O'Connell and his followers. Questions,
however, connected with the Irish church stood in a different light.

The agitators supported the repeal as a measure tending not more
to perpetuate their own domination, than to secure the ruin of the
Protestant establishment. Many, also, who resisted repeal, still
demanded changes and curtailments in that establishment, they
considering it the principal cause of all the turbulence and misery
afflicting Ireland. There were others again who disliked it, not because
it was a Protestant, but because it was a religious establishment; and
such men inveighed against what they termed an unhallowed connection
between church and state, and the practical injustice of compelling
persons of one belief to support the institutions of a different creed.
This party was ready to attack, not only the revenues, but the very
existence of the Irish church, as the first step towards the destruction
of that of England. Union in the cabinet, coupled with a determination
not to be driven further than themselves were inclined to go, might
have rendered ministers sufficiently strong to defy such destructive
reformers. Unfortunately, however, on this question, the cabinet itself
was divided. One portion of the ministers, numerically the strongest,
seemed inclined to admit the principle of appropriation, which they had
repudiated in the bill of last session, by withdrawing the clause in
which it was contained. On the other hand, the minority, however willing
to remove striking and useless inequalities in the distribution of
the ecclesiastical revenue, and to adopt measures which would prevent
irritating collisions in its collection, resisted on principle any
transfer of it to other purposes; and they especially refused to
acquiesce in proposals for making the Protestant establishment depend
on the comparative strength or weakness of the Romish church. This
discordance of opinion would have prevented ministers from starting the
subject; but it was forced on them by a numerous party, which made up in
fury and zeal what was lacking in knowledge and discretion. On the 27th
of May, Mr. Ward, one of the members for St. Albans, moved a resolution
for reducing the temporalities of the Irish church, as exceeding the
spiritual wants of the Protestant establishment. This motion gave rise
to a division in the cabinet. In supporting his proposition, Mr. Ward
contended that vital and extensive changes in the church of Ireland
had now become unavoidable on the grounds of mere expediency. The
tithe system, he said, was the source of all the disorganisation
that prevailed in Ireland. Resistance to it was almost universal,
comprehending both Catholics and Protestants. Commutation, he argued,
would do no good; a new appropriation of church property alone could
produce even a momentary calm. Mr. Ward's motion was seconded by Mr.
Grote, who said that the means of relief must be suggested from a higher
quarter when once the principle was recognised. Lord Althorp here arose
to request the house to adjourn, in consequence of circumstances which
had come to his knowledge since he had entered the house. He could not
at present, he said, state the nature of these circumstances; but the
house would doubtless believe that he would not make such a proposition
without being convinced of its propriety. The house adjourned, according
to Lord Althorp's request; and it appeared that the circumstances to
which he had alluded, and which had been communicated to him while Mr.
Ward was speaking, was the resignation of those ministers who would not
consent to the principle which his motion involved. Those who resigned
were Mr. Stanley, colonial secretary; Sir James Graham, first lord of
the admiralty; the Duke of Richmond, postmaster-general; and the Earl
of Ripon, lord privy-seal. These vacant offices were soon filled up:
the Marquis of Conyngham became postmaster-general; the Earl of Carlisle
accepted the privy-seal; Lord Auckland became the first lord of the
admiralty; and the colonial office was filled up by Mr. Spring Rice.
Lord Althorp stated afterwards that he was not aware of the necessity of
these changes till after he had entered the house on the 27th; and the
adjournment seems to have arisen from the fear that the retirement of
these ministers would bring along with it the resignation of the whole.
An address was got up and presented to Earl Grey by a great number of
the ministerial adherents in the commons, entreating his lordship to
retain his place; but though, in reply he announced his intention of
making every personal sacrifice that might be required of him in
support of the principles of the administration, he admitted that much
embarrassment, as well as mischief, was produced by the reckless desire
of innovation. The embarrassment of ministers was rendered still greater
by the king himself, who, in reply to an address presented to him by
the Irish bishops on the 28th of May, on behalf of the Irish church,
remarked with peculiar emphasis:--"I now remember you have a right to
require of me to be resolute in defence of the church. I have been,
by the circumstances of my life and by conviction, led to support
toleration to the utmost extent of which it is justly capable; but
toleration must not be suffered to go into licentiousness: it has its
bounds, which it is my duty, and which I am resolved to maintain. I
am, from the deepest conviction, attached to the pure Protestant faith,
which this church, of which I am the temporal head, is the human means
of diffusing and preserving in this land. I cannot forget what was the
course of events that placed my family on the throne which I now fill.
These events were consummated in a revolution, which was rendered
necessary, and which was effected, not, as has sometimes been most
erroneously stated, merely for the sake of the temporal liberties of
the people, but for the preservation of their religion. It was for the
defence of the religion of the country that the settlement of the crown
was made which has placed me in the situation which I now fill; and that
religion, and the church of England and Ireland, the prelates of which
are now before me, it is my fixed purpose, determination, and resolution
to maintain. The present bishops, I am quite satisfied, have never been
excelled at any period of the history of our church by any of their
predecessors in learning, piety, or zeal in the discharge of their high
duties. If there are any of the inferior arrangements in the discipline
of the church--which, however, I greatly doubt--that require amendment,
I have no distrust of the readiness and ability of the prelates now
before me to correct such things; and to you, I trust, they will be left
to correct, with your authority unimpaired and unshackled."


COMMISSION ISSUED TO INQUIRE INTO THE STATE OF THE IRISH CHURCH.

On the 2nd of June, when the house reassembled, Lord Althorp stated that
Mr. Ward's motion had compelled ministers to take up the question of the
Irish church; and he informed the house that his majesty had appointed
a commission of inquiry into the state of church property and church
affairs generally in Ireland. This commission, he said, was to be a lay
commission; and it was to visit the different parishes and districts
throughout Ireland; to inquire on the spot into the number of
Protestants in each parish; whether that number was stationary,
increasing, or declining; whether it was a benefice, or if a parish
forming part of a union; the distance and number of churches and
chapels; the situation of the clergyman, how paid, and whether resident
or non-resident; the times which divine service was or had been
performed; the number of Protestants attending such service; and whether
that attendance was stationary, on the increase, or declining. Similar
inquiries were to be made in each parish and district with respect to
Roman Catholics, and to Dissenters of every description, as well as to
the number and the nature of schools in each parish. The commissioners
were further to make minute inquiries in all parishes, touching other
matters connected with the Irish church or church property, and to
report thereupon. Lord Althorp, after making these statements, said that
Mr. Ward's motion went to pledge the house that the amount of church
property in Ireland was beyond the wants of that establishment; and
next, that parliament had a right to regulate the distribution of
church property, and to determine upon the reduction of the Irish church
revenues as now established by law. He was of opinion that the house
should legislate deliberately upon so grave a question, and he trusted
that Mr. Ward would withdraw his motion, and feel satisfied with what
government had done. Mr. Ward, however, refused to withdraw his motion:
he must press, he said, for a recognition of the principle, because,
from what was passing around him, he was afraid that the present
ministers would not long continue in office. Lord Althorp then moved
the previous question, principally on the ground that, of all questions,
this was one which most required much previous inquiry and detailed
information. Mr. Hume, and Colonels Davies and Evans supported the
original resolution, declaring that the shuffling mode of proceeding
adopted by government in regard to this question, rendered it impossible
to repose confidence in ministers. After a long debate the amendment,
however, was carried by a majority of three hundred and ninety-six
against one hundred and twenty. The majority would have been still
larger, had not a considerable number of conservative members, unwilling
to wear even the appearance of tampering with the question, left the
house before the division. The subject was brought before the lords on
the 6th of June, by the Earl of Wicklow, who moved an address to his
majesty for a copy of the commission, a motion which Earl Grey said he
would not oppose. Many of the peers embraced this opportunity of stating
their objections to the commission, contending that the measures on
which ministers appeared to have resolved would end in the ruin of the
church. Concession, it was said, could not stop here; it must go on from
step to step, till nothing was left to be conceded. Earl Grey denied
that he and his colleagues looked forward to anything that could be
justly called spoliation of the church; they contemplated a great
alteration, but nothing more.


IRISH TITHE QUESTION.

In the meantime ministers had been proceeding with a bill for the
amendment of the tithe system in Ireland, founded on principles which
should extinguish tithe altogether as a payment to be demanded in kind,
and should lay the burden, directly at least, on a different class of
payers. The provisions of the intended measure were explained on the
20th of February, by Mr. Littleton, the Irish secretary, in a committee
of the whole house, met for the purpose of considering the portion
of the king's speech relating to this subject. Government, he said,
proposed in the first place, that from and after the month of November
next, composition for tithe should cease in Ireland, and in lieu thereof
a land-tax should be imposed, payable to the crown, and to be collected
and managed by the commissioners of woods and forests, of the same
amount as the tithe-payment now exigible, and to be paid by the same
parties who at present were liable. In the second place, he said,
ministers proposed that this land-tax should be redeemable at the end
of five years, by all who had a substantive interest in the estate.
Thirdly, they proposed, he said, that so much of the land-tax as
remained unredeemed on the 1st of November, 1839, should be converted
into a real charge, equal to four-fifths of the land-tax, and payable by
the owner of the first estate of inheritance in the land, who should be
entitled to recover the whole amount over against his tenantry; these
rent-charges would be redeemable or saleable for the best price to be
had, not being less than the consideration for redemption of land-tax.
In the fourth place, ministers proposed that the tithe-owners should be
paid by warrants issued by the ecclesiastical commissioners for Ireland,
and addressed to the commissioners of woods and forests: such payments
to be of the amount of the compositions to which the tithe-owners might
be severally entitled, subject to a deduction for the trouble, loss, and
expense of collection. Finally, ministers proposed that on redemption
of the land-tax or sale of rent-charges taking place, the payments by
warrants were to cease; and that the redemption or purchase-money should
be paid over to the commissioners for the reduction of the national
debt, and to yield an interest of 2 1/4d. per diem. The money was to be
drawn out from time to time, and invested in land, for the benefit of
the tithe-owner entitled to the principal money. The great object of
the measure, Mr. Littleton explained, was, if possible, to invest the
produce of the land-tax and rent-charge in land, so as to give the
tithe-owner £80 in land for every £100 tithe to which he had a claim.
Where clergymen had already agreed to compositions, they would get tax
to the same amount, redeemable on the same terms as in other cases;
clergymen would, indeed, he said, be probably gainers of five per
cent, by the change. Mr. Littleton concluded with moving the following
resolution:--"That it is the opinion of this committee, that composition
for tithes in Ireland ought to be abolished on and after the 1st day of
November in the present year, in consideration of an annual land-tax to
be granted to his majesty, payable by the persons who would have been
liable to such composition for tithes, and of equal amount; that such
tax shall be redeemable; and that out of the produce provision be made
in land or money for the indemnification of the persons entitled to such
composition." The moderate members reserved their opinions until the
details of the measure should be more fully before the house; but
Messrs. O'Connell, O'Conner, Shiel, Grattan, and others of the same
class, attacked it with unmeasured violence. The bill did not abolish
tithe, and therefore it was not a bill to suit their notions. Of all the
delusions which had ever been practised, they said, this was the most
gross. Did ministers, they asked, think so meanly of the people of
Ireland as to imagine that a change of name would be mistaken for a
change of the thing, or that tithes would become less odious by being
called a land-tax or an annuity? The people of Ireland objected not
merely to the amount of tithes paid, but to the application of the
funds thence arising: the objection to tithes was double, and now that
objection would mix itself with rents. The landlords of Ireland must now
look to themselves, for the principle upon which opposition to tithes
had hitherto been conducted would forthwith be applied to rents: the
Irish people would not regard the present measure as the smallest
alleviation of their misery. Mr. O'Connell proposed that two-thirds of
the existing tithes should be abolished, the remaining third being left
as a quit-rent on the land; and after providing for the life-interest of
present incumbents, he said, he would apply the produce to relieving the
landlord from grand-jury assessments, to the support of charities, and
to other public purposes. Mr. Barron proposed that the tithe levied, to
which he did not object, should be restored in part to the poor, they
originally having had an interest in it. Mr. Grattan proposed a third
scheme: he wished parliament to recognise the liability of property in
Ireland to contribute to a fund for the support of religion and charity,
but he wished also that such a fund should be different in collection
and lighter in its amount than that now raised by the system of tithes.
Lord John Russell characterised Mr. O'Connel's plan as one of direct
robbery and spoliation, which would be advantageous to none but
landowners. On a division the original motion was carried by a majority
of two hundred and nineteen against forty-two. A bill founded upon it
was then brought in; and on moving the second reading on the 2nd of May,
Mr. Littleton mentioned certain alterations which had been introduced
into the measure, evidently for the purpose of conciliating Irish
members. The principal changes were that instead of a varying rate of
deduction on account of the trouble and expense of collecting, there
should be one uniform deduction of fifteen per cent, to tithe-owners, to
be increased two and a half in cases where landlords had already taken
upon themselves the payment of compositions; and that when leases of
tithes had been made to the possessors of lands, the rent reserved on
such leases or the composition, whichever was the smaller in amount,
should be the measure of the land-tax; but the incumbent lessee was
to receive the amount of the rent, subject to a reasonable charge for
deficiency, the deficiency being made good out of the funds arising from
the deductions. But no change could conciliate the Irish members:
their opposition continued not only unrelaxed, but it even increased in
violence. No plan, indeed, would have been acceptable to them which did
not recognise the principle of despoiling the Protestant church.
The new bill, they contended, would be as inefficient to tranquillise
Ireland as its predecessors had been; and that a new insurrection act
and an additional army would be necessary. The second reading, from the
hostility of the Irish members, was not carried without long debates and
various manouvres; and even the conservative members aided in delaying
the measure. Their objection to it was not that it left too much to the
clergy, but that it took too much from them. They deemed it necessary,
however, to support ministers, in order to prevent worse measures
from being brought forward. It was their belief | that the money to
be secured by the present measure was to be applied exclusively to the
purposes of the church. This belief was somewhat shaken by Lord John
Russell, who stated that he understood the bill to be one for securing
a certain fund appropriated to religious and charitable purposes; and if
parliament found it was not so applied, it would be its duty to consider
of a new appropriation. His own opinion was, he said, that the revenues
of the church of Ireland were too large for the religious and moral
instruction of the persons belonging to that church, and for the
safety of the church itself. When, therefore, this property was once
successfully vindicated against those who unjustly withheld it, he would
be prepared to do justice to Ireland, for if ever a people had reason to
complain of a grievance it was the people of Ireland, in relation to the
present appropriation of tithes. These sentiments were hailed by some of
the Irish members as announcing an approaching concession of all their
demands, while others who thought differently complained that, if such
were the intentions of government, they had been induced by a false
belief to receive the bill with favour, even at the sacrifice of some of
their own convictions. On a division, the second reading of the bill was
carried by a majority of two hundred and fifty against fifty-four, the
greater part of the minority being Irish members.

When the bill went into committee, lengthy debates ensued, and several
important alterations were introduced into it from the opposition
encountered. Thus the enemies of the Protestant church had loudly
declaimed against the provision by which the redeemed land-tax was to
be vested in land, and the land vested in the tithe-owner; and in
consequence of this opposition that part of the bill which invested the
revenues of the church in land, and consequently the redemption clauses
were dropped. The composition was to be converted into a land-tax
payable to the crown by the same parties who were now liable for the
composition. The amount so collected was to be paid to the tithe-owners,
subject to a deduction of three per cent. This state of things was
to continue five years, at the end of which period four-fifths of the
land-tax was to be converted into a rent-charge to be imposed on
the owners of estates of inheritance, who should have the power of
recovering it from their tenants, and all others who were primarily
liable under the existing composition laws. The amount of these
rent-charges was to be received by the crown, and to be paid by the
crown to the tithe-owners, subject to a further reduction of two and a
half per cent. for the expense of collection. Another objection to the
bill had been that under the composition-acts, the tithe had been valued
too high, and the payers determined to pay no tithe, and had even failed
to attend the commissions by whom the composition had been struck.
Effect was now given to this objection by the insertion of a provision
conferring a power of appeal against the valuation of the amount of
tithe-composition in certain cases and under certain restrictions. All
the concessions made, however, failed to conciliate the Irish members.
What was required by them was, a legislative declaration to the effect
that the tithe should be diverted from Protestant religious purposes.
On the 23rd of June, Mr. O'Connell moved as an instruction to the
committee, "that after any funds which should be raised in Ireland
in lieu of tithes had been so appropriated as to provide suitably,
considering vested interests and spiritual wants, for the Protestants of
the established church of Ireland, the surplus which remained should be
appropriated to purposes of public utility." This motion was seconded
by Mr. Hume, and it led to another long debate, in which all the usual
topics were again urged on both sides. This resolution, however, was
lost by a majority of three hundred and sixty to ninety, and on the 30th
of June the order of the day was moved for going into committee. This
step was prefaced by the announcement of new and extensive alterations
in the bill. It was now proposed to offer an inducement to the
imposition of voluntary rent charges, by exacting that, in any case
where the owner of the first perpetual estate in the land should be
willing to subject his estate to a rent-charge in lieu of land-tax, and
should declare his intention to that effect before the 1st of November,
1836, the land-tax should then cease, and his property should become
liable to a rent-charge, which should be a sum equal to the interest at
three and a half per cent, on the amount of the land-tax multiplied by
four-fifths of the number of years' purchase which the land might be
fairly worth. Mr. Littleton said he thought that the landowners should
be subject to no greater interest than three and a half per cent, on
the amount of the land-tax thus determined by the proportion of years'
purchase of the land, but that the difference between the amount of
the rent-charge and the amount of the land-tax should not be less than
twenty per cent, or more than forty per cent, on the amount of such
land-tax. The difference, he continued, between the bonus given to the
landlord and the deduction made from the tithe-owner, which deduction
was to remain as originally proposed, would produce a considerable
deficiency in the funds accruing to the commissioners of land revenue.
It was proposed at first to make up this deficiency in the first
instance from the consolidated fund, and to repay it from the perpetuity
purchase-fund in the hands of the ecclesiastical commissioners under the
act of last session. Finally, in all cases where a rent-charge should
not have been voluntarily created before the expiry of five years, a
rent-charge equal to four-fifths of the land-tax would be compulsorily
imposed. Mr. O'Connell taunted ministers with weak and vacillating
conduct, and insisted that the bill should not go into committee till
it had been printed with the new clauses. The bill, he argued, was no
longer the same: it had been altered again and again; eight additional
clauses not originally contained in it, had already been inserted,
and now came a fresh quantity of matter. Familiar as he was with the
subject, he was not sure that he understood the new alterations, and he
was quite sure that nine-tenths of the members did not understand them.
Messrs, Stanley and Shaw joined Mr. O'Connell in thinking that some
postponement was reasonable and necessary. Mr. Stanley said that it
would be more decent to give time for the great alterations in view, and
the deviations from the principles formerly adopted to be deliberately
considered, after the bill should be again printed and put into the
hands of members. The objection to proceeding with the bill was so
forcible that Mr. Stanley's proposal was acceded to, and the committee
was postponed. On the 4th of July, the house having gone into committee
on another bill connected with the Irish church, Mr. Littleton explained
more in detail the mode of fixing the bonus to be given to the landlords
who submitted to voluntary rent-charges and the financial effects of
it on the consolidated fund. He moved "that for any deficit which might
arise in the sums accruing to the commissioners of woods and forests
out of the land-tax or rent-charges, payable for the composition
of ecclesiastical tithes in Ireland, to the payment of which the
consolidated fund was pledged, that fund should be indemnified from the
revenues in the hands of the ecclesiastical commissioners, and out of
the perpetuity purchase-fund, placed at their disposal by the act of
last session, entitled the Irish church temporalities act." After a
few words from Messrs. O'Connell and Hume, and some other members,
Mr. Stanley attacked the measure and the proceedings of his former
colleagues in a vehement harangue. He opposed the resolution, he said,
because it was both impolitic and dishonest; because it was at variance
with the great principle, which for the last three or four years it had
been the object of government to abolish, namely, the final extinction
of tithes in Ireland by means of redemption; and because it seemed to
him to be the commencement of a new system of plunder, and that too by a
system of plunder not characterised by the straightforward course which
bold offenders followed, but marked with that timidity, that want of
dexterity, which led to the failure of the unpractised shoplifter. He
believed that government was committing great injustice, and would yet
fail in its aim; that the country was against this injustice, and that
Ireland after it had been perpetrated would not be more tranquil; and
therefore he would take the sense of the committee on the resolution
now proposed. Lord Althorp replied to Mr. Stanley, and vindicated the
resolution from the charge of spoliation. He did not see, he said, how
it could be spoliation to take property not from a corporation, but from
a mass of different corporations, and apply it to other purposes, if,
in doing this, he was giving security to the church. Mr. Hume said he
believed in his conscience that ministers were afraid of their late
colleague, and intimated his intention of acting with him. He moved an
amendment the effect of which would be to re-enact the 147th clause of
the act of last session, by substituting for the original resolution the
following:--"That the surplus monies to the credit of the ecclesiastical
commissioners in the perpetuity purchase-fund, to be kept by the said
ecclesiastical commissioners pursuant to an act of last session of
parliament, should be applicable to such purposes, for the adjustment
and settlement of tithes in Ireland, as by an act of parliament of this
session should be provided." This amendment gave rise to a lengthy
and sharp debate, but it was thrown out by a large majority, and the
ministerial resolution was then carried by two hundred and thirty-five
votes against one hundred and seventy-one. At this stage, however, the
progress of the bill was arrested for a time by circumstances to which
it becomes necessary to advert, those circumstances being calculated by
their moral and political effects on the composition of government, and
on the relations of parties, to exercise a great influence on the spirit
of all subsequent measures.


RENEWAL OF THE IRISH COERCION BILL.

{WILLIAM IV. 1834}

In the preceding session it had been found necessary to pass what
was termed the coercion bill--a bill intended to put down that
insurrectionary violence and combination which filled Ireland with crime
and confusion. This act was to expire in August; and ministers, acting
upon information received from various parts of Ireland, had determined
to propose its renewal, omitting those parts that related to the trial
of offenders, in certain cases, by courts-martial. There were, however,
other provisions in the bill which the agitators of Ireland viewed with
still greater dislike, they interfering with their own influence, by
preventing those meetings which enabled them to work on the ignorance
and passions of the misguided multitude. To escape from these
restrictions was to Mr. O'Connell and his followers an object of greater
importance than that the multitude whom they misled should be tried only
by the regular tribunals of the country--that the peasant should have
the benefit of the jury, or of an investigation by the civil magistrate.
The lord-lieutenant of Ireland had recommended that the whole act should
be renewed, with the exception of the clause relative to courts-martial;
but on the 23rd of June, Earl Grey received a communication from
him, stating that the provision against public meetings might also
be omitted. What influence had been used with the Marquis Wellesley
subsequently became the subject of much discussion. It appeared that
certain members of the cabinet had been corresponding with him without
the knowledge of Earl Grey, and that the object of their correspondence
had been, not to insure more tranquillity in Ireland, but to smooth the
way of ministers by making concessions to O'Connell and his adherents.
On discovering this, Earl Grey, who dissented from such views,
immediately wrote to the lord-lieutenant to reconsider the subject,
taking nothing into account but what was fitting for Ireland. Lord
Wellesley, however, still adhered to his recommendation, more especially
if, by means of such omission, an extension of the term for the act
could be obtained. The subject was now brought before the cabinet, and
its members were found to be divided in opinion thereon. The minority,
consisting of Lord Althorp, and Messrs. Grant, Rice, Ellice, and
Abercromby, objected to a renewal of the clauses in question, though
they acquiesced in the determination of the majority, that the bill
should be proposed in the form desired by the premier. On the second
reading of the bill, Lord Durham objected to the clauses regarding
public meetings, when Earl Grey declared his dissent from him to be
absolute; if he could not have proposed the bill with these clauses, he
would not have proposed it at all. Without them, he said, the bill would
be ineffectual, impolitic, and cruel: it would punish the miserable
victims of delusion, and let those escape who supplied to Ireland
the fuel of agitation and disturbance. In these sentiments the
lord-chancellor coincided; the clauses, he said, were as necessary as
any others. Attention must be paid to the cause of excitement, as well
as to the parties excited; the clauses regarding public meetings no
doubt were a suspension of rights; but so were all the other clauses of
the bill, to which no objection had been raised. The second reading of
the bill was carried without any serious opposition, and the committee
was fixed for the 7th of July; but in the meantime disclosures were made
in the commons, which stopped the progress of the bill in its present
shape, and which led to the resignation of Earl Grey.


RESIGNATION OF EARL GREY, ETC.

Instead of meeting O'Connell with bold defiance, Mr. Littleton, the
Irish secretary, had committed the fatal error of secretly negotiating
with him, soothing him, and even entrusting him with the views and
determinations of the cabinet, giving him assurances, or encouraging
expectations, for which he had no authority. He seems to have expected
some communication from the lord-lieutenant regarding the omission of
the clauses; and he resolved, before the ministers or the cabinet had
made any decision known to him, to communicate to O'Connell, under the
seal of secrecy and confidence, the sentiments of the Irish government,
and to communicate it as ensuring a similar determination on the part
of government. He spoke of the propriety of acting thus to Lord Althorp,
who said that he saw no harm in it; but, at the same time, entreated him
to use extreme caution in his communication, and by no means to commit
himself in what he said. Under these circumstances Mr. Littleton
sent for Mr. O'Connell on the 20th of June, and made the desired
communication, with an assurance that only a short measure for
repressing agrarian disturbances would be proposed: and, also, that if
the coercion bill was again thought necessary, he would not introduce
it. In consequence of this interview, Mr. O'Connell promised his
assistance in putting down disturbances; and he actually withdrew the
repeal candidate whom he had started for the county of Wexford. To
the dismay of Mr. Littleton, however, the premier and majority of the
cabinet determined to retain the clause respecting public meetings, and
he was compelled to belie his confidential communication. He had told
Mr. O'Connell that he would not be the person to introduce the bill in
that shape: and yet he did not resign when it was determined that the
bill should be introduced in that shape alone. At the same time he
communicated to Mr. O'Connell that his hopes could not be realised; but
begged him to take no public notice of this until he should have seen
Earl Grey's speech introducing the bill. Mr. O'Connell replied to him,
that if he did not resign, he would be guilty of deception; and Mr.
Littleton answered, "Say nothing of that to-day," or, "Wait till
to-morrow." But with regard to the fact, whether such an answer was or
was not given, both O'Connell and Mr. Littleton averred that what the
other stated was not consistent with truth. Be this as it may, O'Connell
thought he was not bound to secrecy; and on the 3rd of July, two days
after the bill had been introduced in the lords, he asked Mr. Littleton
whether it was true that the renewal of the coercion bill in its present
shape had been advised and called for by the Irish government? Mr.
Littleton answered that this was an unusual inquiry to make respecting a
bill not before the house; but he would say that the introduction of
the bill had the entire sanction of the Irish government. Mr. O'Connell
again put his question, as to whether the bill had been called for by
the Irish government? and not obtaining a more direct answer, he said,
"I now ask the Irish secretary if it his intention to bring the bill
forward in this house?" Mr. Littleton replied, "It will be for the
government to decide as to its introduction here when the proper time
arrives; but, whoever may bring in the bill, I shall vote for it." Mr.
O'Connell then said, "Then I have been exceedingly deceived by him;"
and the Irish secretary was driven to the necessity of stating the
whole matter, and an angry discussion ensued. Two days afterwards Mr.
Littleton tendered his resignation; but it was refused, his colleagues,
as Lord Althorp stated in the house, valuing his services too highly
to dispense with them on such grounds. The coercion bill passed through
committee in the lords on the 7th of July, and on the same evening, in
the house of commons, Lord Althorp, for the purpose of announcing its
approach, presented papers relative to the state of Ireland, which he
moved should be printed. This led to a discussion on the sentiments
of the cabinet, and the change of opinion manifested by the Marquis
Wellesley. Mr. O'Connell moved an amendment, that the papers should
be referred to a select committee; and this being rejected by a
large majority, he gave notice for the production of so much of the
lord-lieutenant's correspondence as would explain the reason why he
opposed a renewal of the coercion act on or about the 20th of June.
Hitherto there had been no symptoms of change in the ministry, however
unfortunate might be the figure which they had been compelled to make.
They had even refused to accept the resignation of Mr. Littleton, whose
indiscreet negotiations had been the source of all their embarrassments.
Lord Althorp, however, seems now to have come to the conclusion that
ministers would not be able to carry the bill through in its original
form, for, on the very night of this discussion, he sent in his
resignation, and persisted in retiring from office. The resignation of
the chancellor of the exchequer involved that of Earl Grey. The prime
minister, convinced that it was impossible for him to proceed when
deprived of Lord Althorp's assistance, gave in his own resignation,
which his majesty accepted. By the retirement of the head of the
cabinet, the cabinet itself was dissolved; but no other resignation
followed. The members of the old cabinet, indeed, resolved to
remain together, and selected a new head; and Lord Melbourne, the
home-secretary, was elevated to this post, and kissed hands on the 16th
of July as first lord of the treasury. Lord Melbourne's first act was
to inform the house that ministers did not intend to proceed with the
coercion bill now before it, but that another bill, omitting certain
clauses contained in the former, would immediately be brought into the
house of commons. This announcement produced a vehement discussion, in
which the conduct of government and some of its individual members was
assailed by the Dukes of Wellington and Buckingham, and several other
peers, who maintained, that since the Revolution, no instance had
occurred of such inconsistency and tergiversation. A modified coercion
bill, however, was introduced on the 18th of July; and having been
rapidly carried through the commons, passed the lords on the 29th, under
a strong protest, signed by the Dukes of Cumberland and Wellington, with
twenty-one other peers. This modified bill re-enacted only those parts
of the former which referred to the proclamation of districts. The
lord-lieutenant was to have power to proclaim any district which he
thought necessary, and in these districts any meeting, not convened by
the high sheriff of the county, was to be held illegal. No person was to
leave his house between sunset and sunrise, except on lawful business;
and constables were to have power to make people show themselves at any
hour of the night when they might call at their houses. The operations
of the bill were to cease on the 1st of August, 1835.


REJECTION OF THE IRISH TITHE QUESTION BY THE PEERS.

Ministers having thus provided for the tranquillity of Ireland, by
what they considered enactments of sufficient energy and severity, now
returned to their tithe bill, which, according to them, was to be the
great recompense of the temporary submission to a strained power of the
law. Accordingly, on the 29th of July, the order of the day was read
for the house resolving itself into a committee on the tithe bill. Mr.
O'Connell moved as an amendment that the house should resolve itself
into a committee that day six months. He did so, he said, on the ground
that it was preposterous to go into a committee on a bill containing
one hundred and twenty-two clauses at that period of the session, on
the ground of the demerits of the bill itself, and on the ground that
it would be time enough to legislate after the report of the commission
which had been issued should have been received, a regular plan arranged
and submitted, with all its details, and all necessary information, to
a select committee composed of men of all parties. This amendment,
however, obtained only fourteen votes in its favour, though others were
carried in committee, which went to alter the operation and consequences
of the bill. Thus Mr. O'Connell moved an amendment, the object of which
was to relieve the tithe-payer immediately to the extent of forty
per cent.; and in consequence of the accommodating language and coy
resistance of ministers, it was carried by a majority of eighty-two to
thirty-three. Additional concessions were also made in the committee;
and even Mr. Shiel remarked that Ireland ought to be grateful. Such,
indeed, was the departure from the original principles and arrangements
of the bill that one hundred and eleven out of one hundred and
seventy-two clauses were expunged. Thus altered, the bill was read a
third time, and passed on the 5th of August.

On the second reading of the bill in the lords, the peers were given
to understand by Lord Melbourne that, if it was lost, government would
propose no other grant to relieve the Irish clergy. He admitted, he
said, that there might be reason for viewing with jealousy and distrust
the quarter whence certain alterations made in the bill, subsequently to
this introduction, proceeded; but, at the same time he did not think
the arrangement bad for the church. The tithe for the future was to be
received by the crown, and paid by the landlord, who, in return for the
burden thus imposed on him, was to have a deduction of two-fifths or
forty per cent, of the original composition. The incomes of the clergy,
however, were not to bear the whole deduction, which was only to be
twenty-two and a half per cent, on them; that is, twenty per cent, for
increased security, and two and a half per cent, for the expenses of
collection. The incumbents would, in fact, receive £79 10s. for every
£100 without trouble, without the risk of bad debts, and without the
odium which had hitherto attended the collection of tithe property.
Another consequence was that the clergy would be relieved from the
payment of sums already advanced to them from the treasury, as that
charge would be laid on the landlord. In conclusion, he said that he
thought the revision of existing compositions, made under the acts of
1823 and '32, was also a proper enactment. The bill underwent a complete
discussion--the Conservatives seeing no security for the rights and
interests of the Irish clergy in its provisions as now altered; while
their opponents thought that it would be much more advantageous to the
clerical body to obtain the sum proposed without risk, than to recover
a smaller--if they recovered any at all--through scenes of blood and
slaughter. The Earl of Ripon and the Duke of Richmond pursued a middle
course--they wished the bill to go into committee in order to restore
it to its original state; if unsuccessful there, they would vote against
the third reading. The lords, however, were determined to reject it
forthwith; and on a division the bill was thrown out by a majority of
one hundred and eighty-nine against one hundred and twenty-two. By the
rejection of the bill, the Irish clergy was thrown on the charity of
the British public, who liberally responded to their demand: a large
subscription was made to relieve their distresses.


STATE OF ECCLESIASTICAL QUESTIONS AND THE CLAIMS OF DISSENTERS.

It was not the Catholics alone who regarded the Protestant establishment
with a jealous eye; there were discontents and heart-burnings, also,
among dissenters. The great majority of the people of England adhered
to the established church, yet the dissenters formed a numerous
body, possessing in many instances great respectability, wealth, and
influence. As a body they were impressed with the idea that, by the
church being supported as a national institution, they were stamped with
a mark of inferiority. Acting upon this impression, they very naturally
employed the power with which they were now invested to bring down the
established church to the same level on which they themselves stood; to
annihilate all the rights, powers, and privileges which belonged to
its members; and, by depriving it of all support from the funds of the
state, convert it into a self-constituted religious community. Their
great objects were to obtain those privileges from which they were
excluded, and to be relieved from the necessity of supporting an
establishment in the advantages of which they did not participate.
The occasion was favourable for the enterprise, in consequence of the
unsettled and uncertain state in which things stood, and the hopes held
out by a ministry who seemed disposed to make concessions to all classes
of men if they were but importunate. In accordance with their views,
various petitions were presented by them to parliament in the beginning
of the session, praying to be relieved from church-rates; and in many
instances urging the separation of church and state, or recommending the
general establishment of the voluntary system. These petitions, however,
led to no other result but that of producing a strong expression of
opposite opinions, and calling forth numerous anti-petitions, praying
parliament to preserve the church inviolate. Ministers declared
that they would listen to no proposition for its destruction; but,
notwithstanding this, a motion was made by Mr. Rippon, the new member
for Gateshead, to expel the bishops from the house of lords. This motion
was seconded by Mr. Gillon, a Scotch member; but on a division it was
lost by a majority of one hundred and twenty-five against fifty-eight.
The minority seems to have been much larger than had been anticipated,
for the announcement was hailed with loud cheers.

Among the grievances of which the dissenters complained in their
numerous petitions, none were more forcibly insisted on than their
practical exclusion from degrees at Oxford and Cambridge, in consequence
of its being required, as a preliminary, that they should conform to the
church of England, or to subscribe to her articles. As a matter of civil
right, they demanded that all religious tests should be abolished, and
the universities thrown open for the education and graduation of men
of all creeds. Exertions were made by them to get up petitions from the
universities, and in one of them they succeeded. On the 21st of March
Earl Grey presented, in the house of lords, a petition from certain
members of the senate of the University of Cambridge, praying for the
abolition by legislative authority of every religious test exacted from
members of the university before they proceed to degrees, whether of
bachelor, master, or doctor, in arts, law, and physic. On this occasion,
as on others when similar petitions were presented, there was much
incidental discussion of the merits of the demand. Ministers declared
it to be just and proper, and showed an inclination to grant it; but no
distinct motion was made on the subject till after the Easter recess.
On the 17th of April, however, Colonel Williams moved an address to
the king, "requesting his majesty to signify his pleasure to the
universities of Oxford and Cambridge respectively, that these bodies no
longer act under the edicts or letters of James I., 1616; by which he
would have all who take any degree in schools to subscribe to the
three articles' of the thirty-sixth canon, with the exception of those
proceeding to degrees in divinity; nor to require the declaration,
namely, 'that I am _bona fide_ a member of the church of England,' nor
any subscription or declaration of like effect and import." It was,
however, thought for many reasons more advisable to proceed by bill;
and Mr. Wood, one of the members for Preston, moved as an amendment for
leave to bring in a bill to grant to his majesty's subjects, generally,
the right of admission to the English universities, and to equal
eligibility to degrees therein, notwithstanding their diversities of
religious opinion, degrees in divinity alone excepted. The address was
withdrawn; and after a discussion, in which even the introduction of the
measure was opposed by Messrs. Goulburn and Estcourt, and Sir R. Inglis,
three of the four members for the universities, it was carried by a
majority of one hundred and eighty-five to forty-four. Although the
Cambridge petition had been presented in both houses by members of
the cabinet, and government had declared its entire concurrence in the
prayer of the petitioners, neither the proposition for an address, nor
that for a bill, was brought forward by ministers. They were favourable
to the measure, however, and supported it by their speeches and votes.
At the same time they wished that neither parliament nor the government
should be pressed or hurried to intermeddle, before they could take
up the matter with the prospect of terminating it in the best and most
satisfactory manner. They hoped, they said, that as a portion of one
of the universities was already inclined to it, the object, by allowing
some time for consideration, might be effected with the concurrence
of those learned bodies, and in a much better form, and to much better
purpose, than if they were made reluctantly to act under the compulsion
of a statute. That hope, however, was vain. Before the bill was brought
in, the sentiments of the great mass in the two universities were fully
expressed. It was soon discovered that the sixty-three petitioners
at Cambridge, by offending the honest principles of many, and the
party-spirit of others, had raised a storm which no argument or
explanation could allay. Meetings were almost daily held, pamphlets were
distributed on every hand, the public press joined in the contest, and
the university pulpits resounded with the most awful denunciations.
During the excitement at Cambridge, a counter-petition was signed by two
hundred and fifty-eight members, resident and non-resident, comprising
eleven heads of houses, eight professors, and twenty-nine tutors; while
a second was signed by seven hundred and fifty-five under-graduates and
bachelors of arts. These were presented on the 21st of April by the Duke
of Gloucester in the lords, as chancellor of the university, and by
Mr. Goulburn in the commons, as one of its representatives. A similar
document was presented from the university of Oxford by Mr. Estcourt,
and on the 9th of May a second petition was sent from Cambridge, signed
by one thousand members of the senate who had not signed the other.

Although Mr. Wood brought his bill into the house soon after the Easter
holidays, it was not till the 20th of June that he was enabled to move
the second reading. Mr. Estcourt proposed as an amendment that it should
be read that day six months. Mr. Herbert seconded the amendment. Messrs.
Paten, Poulter, and Ewart spoke in favour of the bill, contending
that the alteration was necessary, no less for the benefit of the
universities, than in justice to the dissenters. By the present system
the latter were impeded in their progress to the bar, by having to keep
terms for five years instead of three; and were prevented from becoming
fellows of the college of physicians, for want of academical degrees.
These were positive and weighty grievances, which ought, it was urged,
to be remedied. Mr. Spring Rice complained that it was unfair to treat
the bill, not according to its own deserts, but according to measures
which might or might not be immediately connected with that now under
discussion. He asked what could be more inconsistently unjust than
the practice of Cambridge, where dissenters were admitted so far as
instruction was concerned, but then excluded from everything to which
instruction ought to lead? They were admitted to the fullest and most
complete course of study until the twelfth term, when, on being brought
into fair competition with their fellow-students, the odious principle
of exclusion intervened: the dissenter was told that, however obedient
he had been to college regulations, however high the eminence he had
acquired, still he would not be allowed the badge or symbol of his
acquirements, simply because he was a dissenter. The house, indeed, had
the benefit of experience; for in Dublin dissenters were admitted to
degrees, though excluded from fellowships, and all participation in the
internal management of the university. And what mighty mischiefs, he
asked, had followed the admission? Was the university less orthodox in
its principles? or less a Protestant foundation than before? Had
the zeal of its public instructors been lessened, or their sphere of
usefulness narrowed by this interference? It should be remembered
that those on whom the exclusions fell were men of active and stirring
spirits, men who wrould excite and probably guide the councils of those
with whom they agreed in opinion. It had been said that the dissenters
ought to found universities of their own. He concurred in that argument;
but the English universities would not allow them to do this. When
they proposed such a step, in order to educate the youth of their own
persuasion, and reward them with those honours which the university
denied, and thus sought to secure to themselves academical honours and
privileges, the universities stepped forward and said:--"We will not
only exclude you from our own seats, but will also prevent you from
enjoying the advantages and privileges of a university of your own."
This double ground of exclusion and prohibition was most undefensible.
The colonial secretary was answered by Mr. Goulburn, who argued that in
proportion as the friends of the bill enforced the danger of excluding
dissenters, they rendered manifest the ruinous consequences of
concession. If the dissenters really deemed it so great a hardship to be
deprived of the empty honour of a degree, what would they say, if they
were admitted to degrees, and found a bar raised against their admission
to college emoluments and distinctions? Sir Robert Peel characterised
the bill as an enactment intended to give to Jews, infidels, and
atheists--to the man who professed some religion, and to the man who
professed none--a statutable right of demanding admission into our
universities. Sir E. Inglis and Lord Sandon opposed the bill, contending
that it was impossible to establish any system of religious education in
institutions into which persons professing different religious opinions
were admitted. Lord Althorp, on the other hand, supported the bill,
disclaiming at the same time any hostility to the established church. On
a division the second reading was carried by a majority of three hundred
and twenty-one against one hundred and seventy-four. In the committee
the speaker gave his decided opposition to the bill; and some amendments
having been made, it wras read a third time, and passed by a majority of
one hundred and sixty-four against seventy-five. The bill was conducted
in the lords by the Earl of Radnor, who moved the second reading on the
1st of August. The Duke of Gloucester, Chancellor of the University of
Cambridge, denounced the bill as being not only uncalled for, but most
unjust and mischievous. His royal highness concluded by moving as
an amendment that the bill should be read a second time that day six
months. He was followed by the Duke of Wellington, Chancellor of the
University of Oxford, who sustained the same view of the question. The
Earl of Carnarvon spoke against the bill; the Archbishop of Canterbury
maintained the same side. Lord Melbourne admitted that the subject was
surrounded with difficulties; that he did not altogether approve of the
bill; but, notwithstanding this, the question being brought before the
house, he would vote for the second reading of the bill, because he
thought a question of such magnitude and importance was entitled to
the fullest and most anxious consideration. Lord-chancellor Brougham
supported the bill, because he thought it went to remove a practical
grievance, without affecting the discipline of the universities or the
safety of the church. The discussion was closed by the Bishop of
Exeter, who, in a long and ingenious speech, opposed the bill in all its
bearings. On a division, the amendment to reject the bill was carried by
a majority of one hundred and eighty-seven against eighty-five.

Another grievance of which the dissenters complained was, that they were
liable to church-rates--that is, they were taxed towards the expenses
of the established church. On the 21st of April Lord Althorp brought
forward his plan for the mitigation of this evil in the shape of a
resolution: "that, after a fixed time, church-rates should cease and
determine; and, in lieu thereof, a sum not exceeding £250,000 should be
granted from the land-tax to be applied to the expenses of the fabrics
of churches and chapels in such manner as parliament should direct."
He said that his intention was not merely to relieve dissenters, but
likewise to provide for the fabrics of the church. This plan, however,
did not suit the views of either churchmen or dissenters. The friends
of the dissenters, indeed, immediately attacked it with unmeasured
violence. Mr. Hume moved that all the words in the resolution should be
expunged, except those which declared "that church-rates should cease
and determine." The proposal, it was said, was a contemptible juggle,
founded on the old financial principle that if money were taken out of
the pockets of the people by indirect means, they would not be sensible
of their loss. On the other hand, the friends of the church objected to
the plan because it questioned the rights of the church, infringed on
some of them, and left others on a foundation less sure than before; and
all this without any reason in principle, and confessedly without any
good result in practice. Lord Althorp, in his reply, expressed
much surprise that the dissenters should receive the proposition so
ungraciously; but expressed his determination to persevere in bringing
it forward. On a division the original motion was carried by a majority
of two hundred and fifty-six against one hundred and forty; but
notwithstanding this majority, and the certainty of ultimate success,
ministers proceeded no further with the measure. Churchmen considered
that one advantage was gained, in the dissenters having been brought to
disclose somewhat prematurely the real purposes which they had in
view, and to proclaim opinions tending to the complete abolition of a
religious establishment. Government were equally unfortunate in another
attempt to gratify the dissenters, by allowing them to celebrate the
marriage ceremony in their own chapels, and thus escape what was deemed
by them a grievous oppression.

The commutation of tithes in England was a subject still more
complicated and difficult. It in fact involved so many interests of
different kinds, and so many details requiring minute attention, that
the adjustment of the question was a work requiring both time, patience,
and circumspection. Lord Althorp brought forward the ministerial plan
on the 15th of April, and it was contained in the following
resolution:--"That it was expedient that the payment of tithes in kind
should cease and determine, and that in the several parishes throughout
England and Wales there should be substituted in lieu thereof a payment
to the parties who might be entitled to such tithe, such payment bearing
a fixed proportion to the annual value of all land whence tithe might be
payable, that value to be ascertained throughout the several counties at
large, striking an average on the parishes in each county; also that all
owners of property liable to tithe be at liberty to redeem the same at
the rate of twenty-five years' purchase." Lord Althorp then proceeded to
develop his plan at great length; but its principles and details were so
strongly objected to both by landlords and the clergy that the measure
was dropped for the present. Lord Althorp stated as a reason for not
going on with it, that he saw, from the state of the public business,
and the time which would require to be devoted to the more urgent
question of the amendment of the poor-laws, that there was no
probability of its being brought to a successful issue before the
termination of the session.


POOR-LAW AMENDMENT ACT.

{WILLIAM IV. 1834}

One act was carried this session, which, in itself, is sufficient
to signalise the administration under whose auspices it was brought
forward. Soon after their accession to office the present ministry had
issued a commission of inquiry into the state and operation of the
poor laws. The inquiries of the commission were to be directed towards
ascertaining what was the cause why, in some parts of the country, the
poor-laws were considered a benefit by parishes, while in others their
operation had been ruinous and destructive. The commissioners had made
their report, and an abstract of the evidence which they had taken had
been printed in the course of the preceding session. Government was
so strongly impressed by that report, with a conviction of the evils
produced by the system in many districts of the country, that they
resolved to propose a remedy to parliament. On the 17th of April,
therefore, Lord Althorp moved for leave to bring in a bill to alter and
amend the laws relating to the poor. The necessity of interference was
maintained on the ground that the present administration of those laws
tended directly and indirectly to the destruction of all property,
whilst their continued operation was fatal even to the labouring classes
whom they had been intended to benefit. It was the abuse of the system,
rather than the system itself, which was to be apprehended. Its worst
abuses, indeed, were scarcely older than the beginning of the present
century, and they had originated in measures intended for the benefit of
that class of the community to whose interests and welfare they were
now most destructively opposed. A feeling at that period prevailed that
great discontent existed among the working classes, and a principle was
then adopted in legislation, which, though humane and well intended, was
found to produce the most baneful consequences. The 36th of George III.
laid down the principle that the relief to paupers ought to be given in
such a manner as to place them in a situation of comfort. It might have
been desirable to place all our countrymen in this situation; but to
give relief in the manner prescribed by this statute was rather the duty
of private charity than of the public legislature. The effect of this
law had been to give the magistrates the power of ordering relief to the
poor in their own dwellings, and the principle being followed up, led
from bad to worse, until every spark of independence in the breast of
the peasantry had been nearly extinguished. The parish must keep them,
it was often said; and they did not care to obtain an honest livelihood
by the sweat of their brow. The existing state of things had indeed
reduced the labouring population in many districts to a state of
deplorable misery and distress. It was evident that there were great
dangers to be incurred if matters were left as they stood, and that it
was absolutely necessary to adopt sounder principles, and to carry them
into execution unflinchingly. In fact, there were examples already to
be followed. In about one hundred parishes the evils of the system had
compelled the inhabitants to adopt an approved mode of administration,
and in every instance they had succeeded, although some of them had been
completely pauperised. Where, again, the former system still prevailed,
cultivation had been abandoned; so heavy was the pressure of rates, and
so great the evils of mismanagement. The consequence of this was that
the neighbouring parishes were compelled to support the poor; and it was
evident that they also would soon be reduced to a similar situation if
the system was not soon and effectually altered. It was on the grounds
of this mischief, and the necessity of checking it, that Lord Althorp
defended the principle of entrusting the poor-laws to a board of
commissioners. He admitted that this was an anomalous course of
legislation, and that the board would be entrusted with extraordinary
powers. This, however, he argued, was rendered unavoidable by the
necessity of the case; a discretionary power must be vested somewhere,
in order to carry into effect the better principles to be introduced.
But before extending any discretionary power, he continued, it would be
necessary to fix a day on which the allowance system should cease; and
in the bill it would be fixed in some of the summer months, when the
labourers were in full employment. The allowance system, he said, was
the foundation of almost all other evils; and until it was abolished,
any attempt at amending the poor-laws would be nugatory.

The allowance system being abolished, and the central board established,
next came the powers of the commissioners. He proposed one uniform
system operating over the whole country, in order to obtain which they
were to have power to make general rules and orders as to the mode of
relief, and for the regulation of workhouses, and the mode of relief
afforded therein. As a check against any abuse, every such rule, order,
or regulation so proposed by the commissioners would be submitted to the
secretary-of-state: forty days were to elapse before it could be brought
into operation, and during that period it should be competent, by an
order in council, issued for that purpose, to prevent it from being
carried into effect. The commissioners would further have power, he
said, to make specific rules and orders for the regulation and mode of
relief of the poor in separate districts and parishes: to form unions of
parishes, in order to make larger districts; to arrange classifications
of the poor in the same or different workhouses; to exercise a general
control in such unions as might be established without their consent;
and to dissolve unions which might now exist. Unions having been
formed, each parish in the union would have to maintain its own poor,
or contribute to the general fund the proportion of expense which it had
hitherto borne by itself. The commissioners would likewise have power
to call the attention of parishes and unions to the state of their
workhouse establishments, and to suggest to them the propriety of adding
to those formed, or of building separate and distinct establishments.
Another fertile source of mischief had been the practice of ordering
relief to the poor in their own houses. The bill would provide that
justices should have no power for the future, thus bringing back the
law to the state in which it had been previous to the year 1796. Other
features of the bill, he explained, consisted in simplifying the law of
settlement and removal; in rendering the mother of an illegitimate child
liable for its support, and, for its ailment, to save from imprisonment
the putative father to whom she might swear it. The great principles
of the proposed plan, therefore, went to stop the allowance system;
to deprive the magistracy of the power of ordering out-door relief; to
alter, in certain cases, the constitution of parochial vestries; to give
large discretionary powers to the commissioners; to simplify the law
of settlement and removal; and to render the mother of an illegitimate
child liable for its support. The bill by which these principles were
to be carried into effect having been brought in, the second reading was
opposed by Colonel Evans, one of the members for Westminster, and Sir
S. Whalley, one of the members for Marylebone. The latter moved an
amendment, that the bill should be read a second time that day six
months. It was his opinion, he said, that the bastardy clause, which
threw all the burden on the mother, on whom the odium rested already,
thus held out a premium to immorality and an inducement to infanticide;
and the clauses which effected the law of settlement would of themselves
justify the house in throwing out the bill. His great objection,
however, was to the board of commissioners. The board was unnecessary,
for the principal existing defect consisted in the ratepayers not having
sufficient control over the expenditure. If they were only vested with
complete control over the poor-law management, the evils of the present
system would soon disappear. He doubted whether the house had authority
to give powers of the description proposed to any set of men--at all
events it was impolitic. The bashaws whom the bill proposed to start
into life would be omnipotent; they might do as they pleased, and
account for their acts by merely stating it was their pleasure. There
were to be no less than thirty-six discretionary powers vested in the
commissioners; a degree of authority entrusted to three men of which
the country afforded no parallel. Government ought to wait before they
undertook any poor-law reform: the report of the commissioners had
already led to the correction of many abuses, and time only was
required to secure a trial to the greater part, if not all, of the
recommendations that report contained. The amendment was seconded by
Alderman Wood, and supported by Mr. Walter, a reforming representative
of Berkshire. Messrs. Grote and Hume, and Sirs J. Scarlett and Francis
Burdett, with other members who spoke on the occasion, all agreed that
there was no good reason against the second reading of the bill, though
none of them approved it as a whole. The chancellor of the exchequer
argued in reply, that nothing had been stated which could be regarded
as an ostensible reason for not going into committee; and that when
in committee all matters which had been noticed would be open to
consideration. The second reading was carried by a majority of three
hundred and nineteen to twenty. In the committee a discussion took place
as regarded the effect of the bill in establishing workhouses, a system
which some members disliked; but the clause was retained. Another
discussion also took place on the clause which allowed occupiers
and owners to vote in vestries, the latter having accumulative votes
proportioned to their property. It was objected to as being inconsistent
with popular rights and good management; but it was nevertheless
retained. The forty-fifth clause provided that it should be lawful for
the commissioners, by such orders or regulations as they should
think fit, to declare to what extent the relief to be given might be
administered out of the workhouse. An amendment was moved, "that no rule
or order of the commissioners shall prohibit the guardians of unions
from giving relief out of the workhouse, to such of their sick or
impotent poor, and to such widows, orphans, and illegitimate children,
as they may think fit so to relieve." This amendment, however, was only
supported by forty, while one hundred and forty-eight voted against it.
In the clauses regarding settlement, settlement by having occupied a
tenement, and having been assessed to the poor-rates for one year,
and having paid such assessment, was added to settlement by birth and
marriage.

The clauses which laid the burden of supporting an illegitimate child
on the mother, as if she had been a widow, gave rise to much discussion.
Mr. Robinson moved that they should be omitted, he objecting to them
chiefly on the ground that they removed the liability from the father.
He did not object, he said, to so much of them as repealed certain acts
affecting the mother, but to that part which let the father go free.
The bill proposed, he said, that in case the woman should be unable to
support the child, the liability should rest on the father, or if he
were not alive, or being alive and not able to support it, then the
liability was to fall on the grandfather or grandmother. Could the
house, he asked, seriously entertain propositions of this nature, or
consent to pass enactments so contrary to every principle of justice
and humanity? Lord Althorp protested against these provisions being
discussed as matters of feeling; they should be considered not as they
affected one portion of society, but the whole of it; and looking at it
in this point of view he was prepared to support this part of the bill
as a boon to the female population. He left it as an alternative to
the committee, that if this clause was struck out, the bastardy clauses
should be wholly severed from the bill, and proceeded with in a future
session of parliament. The general feeling in the house seemed to
be that the clauses should be struck out, and the matters which they
involved made the subject of a separate measure, or that they should
be postponed till some middle term should be devised. The majority,
however, preferred the latter alternative, and it was decided that the
provisions in question should not be expunged. On the 21st of March Mr.
Miles proposed a modified clause, which still refused any claim to
the mother against the father, and gave no power of demanding security
before the child was born; but it exposed him to a claim at the instance
of the managers of the poor, in the event of the mother and the child
becoming chargeable to the parish. The chancellor of the exchequer said
he would have preferred the original provisions of the bill; but he
acquiesced in the adoption of the proposed clause, because he saw that
the opinion of the house was in its favour. Subsequently clauses were
added, disqualifying the commissioners from sitting in parliament;
requiring all general orders and regulations to be laid before
parliament; and limiting the operation of the act, in so far as regarded
the commissioners, to five years. The bill was read a third time and
passed on the 1st of July. It was introduced to the lords on the day
following, and the second reading was fixed for the 8th of July; but in
consequence of the resignation of Earl Grey, it was not again brought
forward till the 21st of July. The second reading was moved by the
lord-chancellor, who, after giving an historical account of the progress
of the poor-laws, pointed out the manner in which they had become the
sources of so much evil. The bill found its most violent opponent in
Lord Wynford, who moved as an amendment that it be read that day six
months. He did not oppose it, he said, on the ground that there was
not much in the administration of the poor-laws which required to be
corrected, but because he conceived that the remedies proposed by the
bill were partly unnecessary and partly inefficient, while some of
them were perfectly tyrannical. The Earl of Winchilsea and the Dukes
of Richmond and Wellington supported the motion for the second reading,
though they did not approve of all the provisions of the bill. The
division on the amendment gave seventy-six peers for the second reading,
and only thirteen against it. In the committee Lord Alvanley proposed
that the bill should be dropped. Lord Wynford urged strong objections
to the central board of commissioners, but this was defended by the
lord-chancellor, the Earl of Winchilsea, and the Duke of Wellington. The
only alteration made in the clauses respecting them and their powers was
an addition proposed by the Duke of Wellington, to the effect that they
should be bound to keep a record of each letter received, the date of
its reception, the person from whom it came, the subject to which it
related, and the minute of any answer given to it, or made thereon,
and also, where the commissioners differed, of the opinion of each
commissioner, and that a copy of such record be transmitted to the
secretary-of-state once a year-, or oftener if required. The Bishop of
Exeter moved to substitute for the leading enactment in reference to
bastardy, "That the father and mother of an illegitimate child, or the
survivor of them, shall be required to support such child, and that no
parish shall be bound to support such child whilst either parent is
able to do so, and that all relief occasioned by the wants of such child
shall be considered as relief afforded to the father and mother, or
the survivor of them." This amendment, however, was negatived by
thirty-eight votes against thirty-four; but the clause itself, being
that which the house of commons, on the motion of Mr. Miles, had
substituted for the original clause, was likewise rejected. On the
third reading the Bishop of Exeter again brought the question before
the house, by moving the omission of the clause which provided that any
person marrying a woman who had an illegitimate child or children by
another man, should be liable to maintain them. The original clause,
however, was retained, although by a majority of only eleven, eighty-two
voting for and seventy-one against it. Instead of the rejected clause
which Mr. Miles had carried in the house of commons, clauses were
introduced on the motion of the Duke of Wellington, enacting, that
the putative father of any bastard child, so soon as such child became
chargeable to the parish by the mother's inability to maintain it,
should be liable to reimburse to the parish the expenses of its
maintenance until it attained the age of seven years, on his paternity
being proved before the quarter-sessions, but not without the testimony
of the woman being corroborated by other evidence; that when a woman had
had one bastard child, she should obtain no order in a subsequent case;
that an order should be operative only till the child attained the
age of seven years; that sums to be recovered from the putative father
should be recoverable only by attachment or distress; and that he should
not, in any case, be liable to imprisonment for costs. Subsequently,
several other amendments were made of minor importance, as alterations
in the allowance system, and in administering outdoor relief, &c.; and
the bill thus altered passed the third reading on the 8th of August, by
a majority of forty-five against fifteen. On the 11th of August, when
Lord Althorp moved the commons to agree to the lords' amendment, an
amendment was moved that they should be read that day six months. This
proposal was chiefly supported by those who were opposed to the bill
altogether, or who wished it should be delayed till next session; but
Lord Althorp declared that if it did not pass, he would not again bring
it forward; and the amendment was negatived by a large majority. All the
amendments of the lords were then agreed to, with the exception of the
omission of the clause which provided for the instruction of pauper
children in the religious creed of his surviving parent or god-parent,
and entitled dissenting clergymen to visit workhouses at all times, for
the purpose of religious instruction, at the desire of any pauper of
any sect. This amendment was said to be a violation of the principle of
religious liberty, and an insult to the small portion of good feeling
towards dissenters which existed in the upper house, and it was
rejected. Finally, the amendment of the commons restoring the clause
which had been expunged, was agreed to by the lords, and thus the great
experiment of a revision and alteration of the poor-laws commenced.

From the great change effected in the poor-laws, no class of men could
eventually expect greater relief than the owners and occupiers of lands.
At this time, however, the agriculturists longed after means of relief
of more immediate, direct, and certain operation. The subject of
agricultural distress had, indeed, formed a paragraph in the king's
speech, and it was now brought forward by the Marquis of Chandos. On the
21st of February, after ably stating both the local and general causes
of the evil, he moved a resolution, "That, in any reduction of national
burdens by the remission of taxes, due regard be shown to that distress
of the agriculturists which had been alluded to in the speech from the
throne." The resolution was supported by Mr. A. Baring, who said, that
importunity and clamour, threats of commotion and resistance to the law
obtained that which was refused to the patient suffering of the farmer.
Several members spoke against the resolution, not meaning to deny that
the agriculturists were suffering, but considering the resolution as not
likely to lead to any result; and that the means alluded to by those who
supported it were neither efficient nor just. Moreover, the supporters
of the motion were far from being of one mind as to the manner in which
relief ought to be afforded. On a division the resolution was lost by
a majority of four only in a very full house. This success induced the
noble mover to bring the subject before the house again. On the 7th of
July he moved, "That an humble address be presented to his majesty,
expressing the deep regret that this house feels at the continuance of
the distressed state of the agricultural interests of the country, to
which the attention of parliament was especially called in his majesty's
most gracious speech from the throne, and humbly to represent the
anxious desire of this house that the attention of his majesty's
government should be directed, without further delay, to this important
subject, with a view to the immediate removal of some portion of those
burdens to which the land is subject through the pressure of general and
local taxation." On a division the motion was lost by a majority of one
hundred and ninety against one hundred and seventy-four.

On the 17th of March the question of the malt-duty was brought directly
before the house by a motion of Mr. Cobbett, that it should cease and
determine from and after the 5th of October next. It was rejected by one
hundred and forty-two to fifty-nine.


THE CORN-LAW QUESTION.

While the agriculturists were thus demanding relief, the corn-laws
were not only insisted on as an answer to all complaints by those who
maintained a different interest, but were also themselves made the
subject of a formal attack. On the 6th of March, Mr. Hume moved, "That
this house do resolve itself into a committee of the whole house, to
consider of the corn-laws, and of substituting, instead of the present
graduated scale of duties, a fixed and moderate duty on the import at
all times of foreign corn into the United Kingdom, and for granting
a fixed and equivalent bounty on the export of corn from the United
Kingdom, with the ultimate view of establishing a free trade in corn."
Sir James Graham defended the present system as necessary to prevent the
destruction of the farmers, and the annihilation of the occupations
of an immense body of agricultural labourers. On the other hand, Lord
Morpeth, who was himself connected with the landed interest, Lord
Howick, and Mr. Clay, member for the Tower Hamlets, supported the
motion, contending that it was the corn-laws which kept the agricultural
interest in a state of depression while all other interests were
prospering. The Irish members who spoke were adverse to the proposition;
the very agitation of the question, it was said, would do much mischief
in Ireland, unless the house distinctly declared that there should be
no change in the existing law. Lord Althorp said that he would meet the
motion with a direct negative, although his opinions were favourable to
an alteration of the existing system. In opposition, therefore, to his
theoretical opinion, he would resist the motion; and he believed that
every cabinet minister would vote against it. There were, however, some
of the members of government favourable to a repeal of the corn-laws;
and Mr. Thompson, vice-president of the board of trade, supported the
motion, and delivered a long speech, principally in answer to Sir James
Graham's. He contended that so far from the existing system conferring
any benefit on the corn-growers, the farmers, who had been deluded
by it, had more reason to complain of it than any other class in the
country. And what, he asked, were the effects on our manufactures of
this system which had ruined the farmers? The motion was rejected by
three hundred and twelve against one hundred and fifty-five. The subject
was again discussed incidentally, on the occasion of the presentation of
a petition from Liverpool in favour of free trade, and especially of
a free trade in corn. Sir Robert Peel embraced this opportunity of
expressing his opinions on the subject--opinions utterly at variance
with the enlightened policy adopted by him at a subsequent date. On the
other hand, Sir Henry Parnell said that the pretext of farmers being
interested in a continuation of the corn-laws was a gross delusion
practised on them by the landlords. It was for their advantage alone
that the whole community was taxed.

At this time, also, those concerned in the shipping-interest complained
loudly of distress, which they considered to be either caused or
aggravated by the admission into our ports of the ships of foreign
nations on the same terms on which our vessels were admitted into
theirs; an admission which the crown had the power of conceding under
the fourth of George IV., c. 77, commonly called "the Reciprocity of
Duties Act." Many petitions for the repeal of this act were presented;
and on the 5th of June Mr. G. F. Young moved for leave to bring in a
bill for that purpose; but the motion was resisted by ministers, and
rejected by one hundred and seventeen against fifty-two.


FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, ETC.

Notwithstanding the distress of the country, the financial affairs of
the present year exhibited an encouraging aspect. The chancellor of the
exchequer indeed, after providing for the interest on the £20,000,000
granted to West India proprietors, had a disposable surplus of
£1,620,000. From various alterations about to be made in the state of
taxation with respect to spirits and beer, the estimated surplus might
be taken at £1,815,000. Under these circumstances, the chancellor of the
exchequer made the following reductions in taxation: in the house-tax,
which was wholly abolished,£1,200,000; customs,£200,000; starch,
£75,000; stone bottles and sweets, £6000; almanacks, £25,000; small
assessed taxes, £75,000--leaving still a surplus of about £230,000. But
this surplus would be further reduced by a change which was proposed
in the spirit duties. The duty on spirits distilled in Ireland had for
several years been fixed at the same amount as in Scotland. That policy
was now to be departed from, and the duty on Irish spirits was to be
reduced from 3s. 4d. to 2s. 4d. per gallon. After a few words from
Mr. Baring against the views of the chancellor of the exchequer,
the resolutions proposed were adopted by the house. Subsequently, an
important measure of finance was attempted in a plan for the reduction
of the four per cent, annuities created in 1826. All holders of that
stock who should not signify their dissent, were to have, for every
£100, three and a half per cent, in a new stock to be consolidated with
the existing three and a half per cent, annuities, which were not liable
to redemption before January, 1840. The dissentients were found to be a
greater number than had been anticipated. Before the 9th of June, nine
hundred and sixty-nine had expressed their dissent, and they held stock
to the amount of £4,600,000. In order to provide funds for paying
off these dissentients, a resolution was passed on the 7th of June,
authorising the commissioners of the national debt to pay them out
of the monies, stocks, or exchequer-bills which they held under "the
savings' bank act." The dissented stock was from the tenth of October
following to be considered as converted into an equal amount of three
and a half per cents., which were to be vested in the commissioners, and
placed in the bank-books to the account intituled "funds for the banks
of savings."


BILL FOR THE REMOVAL OF THE CIVIL DISABILITIES OF THE JEWS, ETC.

{WILLIAM IV. 1834}

During this session Mr. Robert Grant again brought in a bill for
removing the civil disabilities of the Jews. The second reading was
opposed by Mr. C. Bruce. He moved that the bill be read a second time
that day six months. The amendment, however, was rejected, and the bill
carried through committee by large majorities, and it was read a third
time and passed on the 11th of June by fifty votes against fourteen.
In the lords, on the second reading, the Earl of Malmsbury moved the
amendment that the bill should be read that day six months. The Earl of
Winchilsea seconded the amendment. On a division the bill was lost by
one hundred and thirty-two against thirty-eight.

The distress felt at this time by all classes of the community was
dexterously made use of by the opponents of ministers to render their
administration unpopular. They became exposed to great inconvenience
from a statutory rule of the constitution, which requires that all
members of the house of commons who accept certain offices under the
crown shall vacate their seats, and take the chance of a re-election. In
more instances than one, the candidate thus stamped with the approbation
of government had not been re-elected; and even the attorney-general,
having, by his promotion, lost his seat for Dudley, was unable to
appear in the house of commons. This was the first practical grievance
experienced under the reform act, which had swept away all the close
boroughs without any exception, and provided no means to compensate the
loss. This state of matters induced Sir Robert Heron, on the 1st of May,
to move for leave to bring in a bill to obviate the necessity of members
vacating their seats on their accepting certain offices under the crown.
Mr. E. L. Bulwer was dissatisfied with the proposition, because it
failed to remove the worst clanger of the present system. The principle
of the constitution, he said, was not that the people should choose
ministers, but that they should have an opportunity of deciding whether
or not they wished their representatives to become ministers, and this
principle the present measure would destroy. Pie moved, as an amendment,
"That, for the convenience of the public service, and the promotion
of the public interests, it is desirable that one member of each of the
principal departments of state should have a seat in that house, but
without the privilege of voting, unless returned by the suffrages of
a constituency." Dr. Lushington and Mr. Ward opposed both these
propositions, as taking from the people one of the most valuable
privileges given to them by the constitution, merely for the purpose of
consulting the convenience and safety of the party now in power. Lord
Althorp assured the house that the subject had been introduced without
the sanction of government; but, at the same time, he stated that
ministers had been put to great inconvenience. On the whole, however, he
thought that the time was not yet come when a measure like that
should be pressed on the house. Both the motion and the amendment were
withdrawn.

On the 15th of May Mr. Tennyson submitted a motion for leave to
introduce a bill to shorten the duration of parliaments. He reserved to
himself the right, he said, of suggesting the precise period to which
parliaments should extend, when the measure had gone into committee. The
motion was seconded by Sir Edward Codrington, who expressed himself in
favour of five years as being more likely to reconcile the different
parties. Colonel Davies opposed the motion as being premature; and Lord
Dalmeny thought the passing of the reform act the strongest possible
reason against entertaining the question. In reply, Mr. Tennyson stated
that those who supported the bill would bind themselves only to the
propriety of shortening the duration of parliaments, without at all
pledging themselves to any particular period, which might be reserved
for determination in committee; whereas, those who voted against it,
would give a conclusive opinion that the present term ought to be
continued. Mr. E. J. Stanley moved, byway of amendment, that the bill be
one to shorten parliaments to five years, which was negatived without
a division: the original motion was lost by a majority of fifty.
Subsequently Colonel Evans moved for leave to bring in a bill for the
amendment of the reform act, in so far as it made the payment of
rates and taxes an essential qualification for voting at parliamentary
elections, which was supported by Messrs. Hume, Roebuck, Attwood, and
O'Connell. The motion was opposed by Lords John Russell and Althorp; and
it was lost, on a division, by a majority of eighty-seven. Previous
to this, Lord John Russell had introduced a bill to prevent bribery at
elections, which had passed the commons. The peers had referred this
bill to a select committee; and on the 28th of July, the Marquis of
Lansdowne, on presenting the report of the committee, stated that there
had been no interference with the powers possessed by the election
committees of the house of commons. The single object kept in view by
the committee was the attainment of the proposed end in the speediest
manner possible. Accordingly an amendment on the bill was suggested, by
which it was directed that, when a committee of the house of commons
had come to the conclusion that gross and extensive bribery had been
committed in any place, the result of that inquiry should be laid before
their lordships; and then the crown should issue a commission, over
which one of the judges should preside, to form a court of inquiry on
the whole matter in dispute. He proposed that this court should consist
of seven members of the house of commons, five of their lordships, and
one judge, who should have the power of calling before them all persons
and documents affecting the subject of inquiry; that the witnesses
should be exempted from the consequences of*any evidence which they
might be called on to give; and that a statement of the result having
been drawn up, any legislative enactment with regard to the alleged
abuse should be left to the discretion of the two houses of parliament.
When these amendments were brought under the consideration of the lower
house, Lord John Russell thought them of so extensive a nature as
to render the bill almost a new measure; and ultimately he agreed to
withdraw it.

On the 15th of April, Mr. Roebuck moved for a select committee to
inquire into the political condition of the Canadas. These provinces,
he said, in consequence of bad government, were in a state of revolt.
By their constitution they had a governor, a legislative council, and a
house of assembly. Some years after the constitution had been conferred
upon them, the two provinces were permitted to provide for their own
expenses, and consequently to have control over the expenditure of the
government. It had been proposed to pass the estimates annually; but
that plan had been thwarted by the government, which charged the house
of assembly with disrespect to his majesty. The representatives of
the people next resolved to vote their money by items; but this having
excited the jealousy of the officials, put a stop for the time to the
business of the state. In consequence of all this the public mind was
embittered, and the country was divided into two hostile sections--a
small band of official persons on the one hand, and the nation, with
their representatives at their head, on the other. Mr. Stanley said,
that he was glad of the opportunity of bringing under the notice of
the house the present state of the province of Lower Canada, and after
entering into the subject at great length, he moved as an amendment for
the appointment of a select committee, to inquire and report whether the
grievances complained of in 1828 by certain inhabitants of that colony
had been redressed; and also, whether the recommendation of a committee
of that house, to which the question of those grievances was referred,
had been complied with on the part of government: also to inquire into
other grievances set forth in the resolutions of the house of assembly
in Lower Canada, and report thereupon to the house. Mr. O'Connell said
that the object of government was to thwart the Catholic clergymen of
Canada, and to throw obstacles in the way of their building chapels.
He recommended that the motion should be withdrawn, and the amendment
allowed to be carried, so as to throw upon government the responsibility
of appointing the committee. Mr. Hume contrasted the tyranny exercised
over the colony by the present government, with the leniency of the
measures adopted by Lord Goderich; and Lord Howick expressed a hope
that the committee about to be appointed would succeed in effecting
an amicable adjustment of the differences prevailing in Lower Canada.
Finally the motion was withdrawn, and the amendment of Mr. Stanley
adopted.


PROROGATION OF PARLIAMENT.

Parliament was prorogued by the king in person on the 15th of August. In
his speech his majesty lamented the still unsettled state of Holland
and Belgium; but expressed satisfaction that civil war had absolutely
terminated in Portugal. He rejoiced, he said, that the state of affairs
in the Peninsula had induced him to conclude with the King of France,
the Queen Regent of Spain, and the Regent of Portugal that quadripartite
treaty, which had materially contributed to produce so happy a result.
Events, however, had since occurred in Spain, to disappoint for a time
those hopes of tranquillity, which the pacification of Portugal
had inspired. In his speech his majesty alluded to the numerous and
important questions that had engaged, and would still engage the
attention of parliament.


DISSOLUTION OF THE CABINET.

Before parliament was prorogued the weakness and vacillation of
the ministry had been very apparent. From the moment of Earl Grey's
resignation, indeed, the want of intrinsic power had rendered them
dependent on O'Connell and his faction. And this very support was
vouchsafed to them in such a way as tended to bring their government
still more into contempt: while the Irish demagogues supported them,
they expressed the utmost contempt for them. Thus, in the month of
October, O'Connell wrote a series of letters to Lord Duncannon, in which
every species of abuse was heaped upon the ministry and the Whigs.

Another circumstance which contributed to lower the reputation of the
ministry was the hostility evinced to them by the public press. There
was scarcely a daily newspaper, except the _Morning Chronicle_, which
did not occasionally express contempt for them; and as for the _Times_,
its columns perpetually exposed their feebleness and incapacity to
carry on government on any fixed set of principles. The conduct of Lord
Brougham also tended to bring his colleagues into contempt. During
the autumn he traversed different parts of Scotland, making speeches
wherever hearers were to be found, in which at one time he would go the
utmost lengths of ultra-radicalism, and at another, would speak in such
a way as would have induced the Conservatives to hail him as their own.
The dissolution of the ministry, however, was especially aided by the
death of Earl Spencer, which took place on the 10th of November. As that
event moved Lord Althorp to the house of lords, it was requisite to
find a new chancellor of the exchequer, and a new leader of the house of
commons.

On the 14th of November Lord Melbourne waited on the king at Brighton,
to submit to his majesty the changes in official appointments which the
death of Earl Spencer had rendered necessary, Lord John Russell being
the individual selected as leader of the house of commons; but the king
thought that business could not be carried on by such a ministry as
it was proposed to construct, and he expressed his opinion that Lord
Brougham could not continue chancellor, as well as his dissatisfaction
with the selection of the members of the cabinet who were to frame
the Irish church bill. The king, in fact, announced that he should
not impose upon Lord Melbourne the task of completing the official
arrangements, but would apply to the Duke of Wellington.


SIR ROBERT PEEL APPOINTED PRIME-MINISTER.

Having thus dismissed the cabinet, his majesty sent for the Duke of
Wellington, who advised him to entrust the government to Sir Robert
Peel. As Sir Robert, however, was in Italy, he offered to carry on
the public business till his return. This course was adopted, and as
a temporary arrangement, his grace was appointed first lord of the
treasury, and sworn in as one of the principal secretaries of state. On
the 21st of November, Lord Lyndhurst received the great seal, and
took the oaths as lord-chancellor, but he did not resign the office of
lord-chief-baron till the settlement of the ministry in December. Sir
Robert Peel, who had been sent for by a special messenger, arrived on
the 9th of that month, and one of his first steps was to propose to
Lord Stanley and Sir James Graham that they should be members of the new
administration; but they both declined pledging themselves to the extent
to which they might be considered bound by the acceptance of office. The
official arrangements, however, were completed by the end of December,
and the new cabinet consisted of the following members:--Sir Robert
Peel, first lord of the treasury; Lord Lyndhurst, lord-chancellor;
the Earl of Rossyln, president of the council; Lord Wharncliffe,
lord-privy-seal; the Duke of Wellington, secretary-of-state for foreign
affairs; Mr. Goulburn, secretary-of-state for the home department; the
Earl of Aberdeen, colonial secretary; Mr. Alexander Baring, president of
the board or trade; Sir George Murray, master-general of the ordnance;
Sir E. Knatchbull, paymaster of the forces; Earl de Grey, first lord
of the admiralty; Lord Ellenborough, president of the board of
control; Lord Maryborough, postmaster-general; the Earl of Jersey,
lord-chamberlain; the Earl of Roden, lord-steward; Lord Lowther,
vice-president of the board of trade, and treasurer of the navy; Mr. C.
Wynn, chancellor of the duchy of Lancaster; Mr. Hemes, secretary-at-war;
Mr. F. Pollock, attorney-general for England; and Mr. Follett,
solicitor-general. The Earl of Haddington went to Ireland as
lord-lieutenant; Sir Edward Sugden was appointed lord-chancellor
of Ireland; Sir Henry Hardinge became chief-secretary to the
lord-lieutenant; and Sir James Scarlett succeeded Lord Lyndhurst as
lord-chief-baron of the exchequer, with the title of Lord Abinger.


DISSOLUTION OF PARLIAMENT.

Every man of penetration saw that the new ministry had too much of the
old leaven to stand long as the present parliament was constituted.
Sir Robert Peel, however, did not despair. Though there was a reformed
parliament, he fully anticipated carrying on the government with
advantage to the country. In the month of November he expounded the
principles on which he designed to conduct government, in a long address
to his constituents at Tamworth, observing, that he would not accept
power on the condition of declaring himself an apostate from the
principles on which he had hitherto acted, and declaring that he had
not been a defender of abuses, or an enemy to judicious reforms, either
before or after the reform bill had passed. It was evident, however, to
Sir Robert Peel and his colleagues that government could not be carried
on with the present parliament; and therefore, on the 30th of December,
a proclamation was issued, dissolving it, and convoking a new one to
meet on the 5th of February, 1835.


THE ACT ABOLISHING SLAVERY IN THE WEST INDIES CARRIED INTO EFFECT.

On the 1st of August in the present year, the act for the emancipation
of the negroes came into operation. In some islands symptoms of
insubordination were exhibited, and the planters were obliged to have
recourse to punishment and force, in order to overcome the reluctance of
the black population to regular labour; yet this great change took
place without any serious disturbances. In Barbadoes, indeed, there
was perfect tranquillity and order; and in Jamaica the transition was
accompanied with very little alarm or commotion. The slave felt grateful
that he was permitted to take his proper station among the great family
of mankind.


STATE OF THE CONTINENT.

At the close of the last year, the government of the Queen of Portugal
was in possession of the capital, as well as of Oporto. Having an
efficient army, as the authority of Don Miguel was obeyed over a large
extent of country, the government resolved to pursue its military
operations with vigour. The plan adopted was to crush the smaller bodies
of men in arms for the pretender in various parts of the kingdom, till
there should be no Miguelites but those who were around himself at
Santarem. In pursuance of this plan, the Duke of Terceira joined the
queen's army in January, in order that Saldanha might undertake other
operations. Saldanha made himself master of Leyria, between Lisbon and
Coimbra, and Torres Novas, in which a system of massacre was adopted
disgraceful to himself and his officers. His army now separated Miguel
from the north, while the army of the Duke of Terceira pressed upon
him from Lisbon. Saldanha took up his position at Almoster, where, in
February, he was attacked by the Miguelites; but he repulsed them with
great slaughter. Events equally favourable to the queen took place in
the north, where considerable numbers of Miguelites were still in arms.
The provinces north of the Duero were, indeed, cleared of the enemy
by the Duke of Terceira; and he then retraced his steps to expel the
partisans of Miguel from the positions which they still held between
the Duero and the Tagus, particularly Coimbra, on the Mondego, and
Figueiras, at the mouth of that river. Figueiras was reduced by a naval
expedition, under Admiral Napier, and Coimbra opened its gates to the
duke himself. The queen's forces now pressed upon Don Miguel; and on the
18th of May he abandoned his lines at Santarem, and retreated towards
Guadiana, in the direction of Evora. He was followed by Count Saldanha
and the Duke of Terceira, who were at the head of 20,000 men; and seeing
no hopes of success or escape, he sought a suspension of arms for
the purpose of negociating. The government refused to enter into any
negociation, or to listen to any terms different from those which had
been already tendered; namely, that Don Miguel should leave Portugal
within fifteen days, and engage never to return to any part of the
Spanish provinces or the Portuguese dominions, nor in any way concur in
disturbing the tranquillity of these kingdoms; that he would be allowed
to embark in a ship of war belonging to any of the four allied powers;
and that he should receive a pension of sixty centos of reis, about
£15,000, and be permitted to dispose of his personal property, on
restoring the jewels and other articles belonging to the crown and to
private individuals. The troops of Don Miguel were to lay down their
arms, and return peaceably to their homes under the protection of the
amnesty; and he was to issue orders to commanders of fortresses, or of
troops, who still recognised his authority, immediately to submit, under
the same protection, to the government of the queen. To these terms Don
Miguel now consented; and having signed the convention, he went on board
a British vessel of war, which carried him to Genoa. The civil war was
thus brought to an end in Portugal; and it was this happy event which
led his majesty to conclude a treaty with that government, as alluded
to in his speech. One act of ingratitude which the Portuguese government
committed, however, must not be forgotten. It was chiefly by the valour
of the British volunteer auxiliaries that the cause of the queen was
triumphant; and these volunteers had been induced to enter into the
service by promises of pay equal to that of England, exclusive of
allowances for compensation and other advantages. The Cortes, however
resolved, in January, 1834, that they should only receive Portuguese
pay; and when the war came to an end, the British troops remained
unpaid. The men, in fact, on whose bravery the sole dependence was
placed when danger was threatened, were left to wander through the
streets of Lisbon in rags and poverty, and compelled to prolong a
miserable existence on scanty rations of beans and bread, with the
occasional addition of a morsel of salt fish. Such is the usual reward
of mercenaries who hire themselves out as the supporters of foreign
revolutionary governments.

During this year the political relations between Holland and Belgium
continued in the same state of uncertainty in which they had been left
at the close of the former year. In Spain, also, the history of the
present year opens with a continuance of the same contests for the
succession to the crown which had marked the close of the preceding.
Throughout the whole year, indeed, there was war between the
queen-regent and Don Carlos; and the year closed while yet they were in
arms. In Switzerland some agitation was occasioned by an attempt of the
Poles in that country, in concert with Italian fugitives in the French
departments of the Rhone and Isère, to overthrow the Sardinian throne in
Turin, by a sudden attack upon Savoy. Greece, during the present year,
suffered both the evils of civil war and of political intrigue. In
Turkey, the ascendancy of Russia was increased by an alliance, offensive
and defensive, which was concluded between those two powers. The
emperor gave up two-thirds of what remained to be paid in respect of
the indemnities stipulated for by the treaty of Adrianople; and, on the
other hand, to surround his Asiatic frontier, the Porte ceded to him an
extensive tract of country in the pachalic of Athattsick. Turkey was
to pay that portion of the indemnity which was not relinquished when it
might suit her finances; and, in the meantime, Silistria was to remain
as a pledge in the hands of the Russians, an arrangement which gave them
the effective command of Moldavia and Wallachia, and left the frontier
of Turkey defenceless against invasion. Russia also was to have the free
passage of the Dardanelles.


CHAPTER XLV.

{WILLIAM IV. 1835--1836}

     _State of Parties..... General Election..... Ecclesiastical
     Commission..... Meeting of Parliament; Contest for the
     Office of Speaker..... Opening of the Session.....
     Discussion in the Lords regarding the Slavery Abolition
     Act..... Motion of the Marquis of Chandos to repeal   the
     Malt-tax..... The Dissenters' Marriage Act..... Ministerial
     Plan for  the Commutation  of Tithes in England..... Report
     of Commission regarding the Church  of England, &c...... The
     Question   of   the  Appropriation  of   the   Surplus
     Revenues of  the  Irish   Church..... Resignation of
     Ministers   and   the Restoration of Lord Melbourne's
     Cabinet..... Municipal Reform and the Irish   Church.....
     Agricultural   Distress..... Municipal   Corporations.....
     Bill  for regulating the  Irish   Church..... Discussion
     regarding  Orange Societies in Ireland..... The Vote by
     Ballot, &c...... Motion for the Repeal of the Window-tax,
     &c...... The Budget..... Discussions regarding Canada.....
     Prorogation of Parliament..... State of the Continent_


STATE OF PARTIES.

{A.D. 1835}

The state of the political world in this country was, at the opening of
the present year, one of great interest and excitement. The dismissal
of the Melbourne ministry was received by the country with undisturbed
composure and perfect good-humour; but this was viewed by its members
and partisans with alarm and humiliation; and, conceiving that it
betokened a relaxation of power in the springs to whose action they
trusted for their speedy return to office, they resolved to leave no
means untried to agitate the country from one end to the other, in order
to recover their waning influence. To this end the dismissal of the
ministry was announced as exclusively the work of the queen, and as the
result of a deep tory plot, and complicated tory intrigues. These tales,
however, failed in creating the universal dismay so much desired; and
then the organs of the party in opposition constantly insisted on the
dreadful fate which awaited the country from the removal of the only
men who had either head to conceive or courage to undertake the task of
saving the public weal, and putting in their place politicians who would
repeal the reform act, impose new taxes, restore and multiply pensions,
establish military law, and finally produce civil war. Still the country
remained quiescent: it was known that the picture was fictitious, and
men refused to be dismayed. One thing, however, was effected: although
the Radicals did not raise any clamorous outcries at the downfall of
their former associates, they struck a bargain with the Whigs, and came
to terms for the purpose of putting down a common enemy.


GENERAL ELECTION.

The result of the elections crushed the present hopes of the Whigs.
Instead of increasing either their numbers or their radical accomplices,
it brought an addition of more than one hundred members to the
Conservatives, exclusive of those whig reformers, such as Lord Stanley,
who refused to identify themselves with the whig opposition in its
present character and conduct, and of those among the Radicals, as Mr.
Cobbett, who would not consent to be used merely as instruments for
lifting men into power who would not manfully adopt any one of their
opinions, and yet boasted their alliance as being engaged in a common
cause. It must be confessed, however, that the Conservatives placed
their all on this cast of the die. The Carlton Club dispersed its agents
far and wide throughout the country, and every engine which aristocratic
wealth and ecclesiastical influence could put in motion was employed in
their cause. In the counties, the fifty-pound clause operated greatly
to their advantage, and success generally attended their efforts; but
in towns the opposite party were more successful. In Scotland there were
some changes, but the comparative strength of parties remained there
nearly the same as before; but in Ireland the retinue of the popish
agitator was somewhat diminished, although the popish priests exerted
themselves to the utmost in his favour. As for O'Connell himself,
together with his coadjutors, he practised every form of violence and
intimidation against every candidate who would not join in his cry
for repeal, vote by ballot, short parliaments, and extension of the
suffrage. Thus the Knight of Kerry, who started as a candidate for his
native county, and who had spent his whole life in resisting Orangemen,
because he refused to become an instrument in the hands of the popish
priesthood and their agitator, was denounced as unworthy of being
elected; every man who dared to vote for him was to have a death's-head
and cross-bones painted on his door: and the consequence was that he was
rejected. Of a candidate for New Ross, who refused to enlist under his
banner, O'Connell said, "Whoever shall support him, his shop shall be
deserted; no man shall pass his threshold. Put up his name as a traitor
to Ireland; let no man deal with him; let no woman speak to him; let the
children laugh him to scorn." Mr. Shiel likewise opposed a candidate for
the county of Clonmel in the following words: "If any Catholic should
vote for him, I will supplicate the throne of the Almighty that he may
be shown mercy in the next world; but I ask no mercy for him in this."
Yet this unconstitutional line of conduct was not always successful,
and even O'Connell himself, with Mr. Ruthven his colleague, found it
difficult to obtain their return for the city of Dublin. The final
result of the elections secured to the ministry a decided majority, in
so far as England was concerned.


MEETING OF PARLIAMENT.--CONTEST FOR THE ELECTION OF SPEAKER.

Parliament met on the 19th of February. The attendance in the house of
commons on the first day was more numerous than had ever been witnessed,
even on the discussion of any great political or party question, it
being determined by both parties to contest the election of speaker.
Lord Francis Egerton moved that Sir Charles Manners Sutton should be
called to the chair. The motion was seconded by Sir C. Burrell, who said
that though he had supported Mr. Wynn as a candidate for the chair in
1817, in opposition to the late speaker, he had never found reason to
regret his want of success on that occasion. On the other hand, Mr.
Denison proposed that Mr. Abercromby should take the chair, which motion
was seconded by Mr. Orde. Both these gentlemen expressed the pain which
they felt at being compelled by an imperative sense of public duty to
oppose the re-election of the late speaker, and declared their
hearty concurrence in all that had been said regarding his excellent
qualifications; but they maintained that a great public principle
rendered it necessary that those qualifications should not be taken into
consideration. A debate of considerable length ensued, in which the
two candidates themselves took part. On a division Mr. Abercromby was
elected, three hundred and sixteen voting for him, and three hundred and
six for Sir Charles Sutton. The honourable gentleman was then conducted
to the chair, and next day, appearing at the bar of the house of lords,
he received from the lord-chancellor an assurance of his majesty's
approval of his election. His election was the first fruits of the
treaty of alliance between the opposition and O'Connell; but the
smallness of the majority by which it was obtained demonstrated to the
opposition that, without his aid, they could never hope to triumph over
the present ministry.


OPENING OF THE SESSION.

His majesty opened the session in person on the 24th of February; the
intervening days from the election of speaker having been employed in
swearing in members of the house of commons. Recently the two houses
of parliament had been destroyed by fire, and temporary rooms had been
fitted up for the accommodation of the British senate. In the lords the
address was moved by the Earl of Hardwicke, and seconded by Lord Gage.
An amendment was moved by Lord Melbourne, which was apparently framed
for the purpose of catching stray votes, by being so constructed that
even its success could not lead to the resignation of the ministry. The
Earl of Ripon and the Duke of Richmond, who had both been connected with
the late government, expressed their intention of supporting ministers,
so far as they could applaud their measures, though they were unable
to promise them full confidence. Finally, the amendment was negatived
without a division.

In the commons, the address was moved by Lord Sandon, and seconded by
Mr. Branston. Lord Morpeth moved an amendment to this effect:--"That
in place of the concluding paragraphs should be substituted words
expressing a trust that his majesty's councils would be directed in
a spirit of well-considered and effective reform; that, in the same
liberal and comprehensive policy which had dictated the reform of
our representation and tire abolition of negro slavery, the municipal
corporations would be placed under vigilant popular control; that
all the well-founded grievances of the Protestant dissenters would be
removed; that all the abuses in the church which impair its efficiency
in England, and disturb the peace of society in Ireland, would be
corrected; and that the commons beg submissively to add, that they could
not but lament that the progress of these and other reforms should have
been unnecessarily interrupted and endangered by the dissolution of the
late parliament." The amendment was seconded by Mr. Bannerman, and the
debate was continued by adjournment on the 25th and 26th of February.
The members who took part in it were, for the original address, Sir
Robert Peel, Lord Stanley, Messrs. Pemberton, Richards, Robinson,
Goulburn, and Praed, and Sir James Graham; for the amendment, Lords John
Russell and Howick, Dr. Lushington, and Messrs. Grote, Poulton, Ward,
Ewart, Harvey, Fox Maule, Gisborne, Duncombe, O'Connell, and Sir Samuel
Whalley. On a division, the amendment was carried by a majority of three
hundred and nine against three hundred and two. The majority being so
small, Sir Robert Peel intimated that it was possible he might take the
sense of the house again on the question of bringing up the report; but
next evening he stated that it was not now his intention to do this. The
address, therefore, as amended, was presented to the king, who made the
following reply:--"I thank you sincerely for the assurances which you
have given me, in this loyal and dutiful address, of your disposition to
co-operate with me in the improvement, with a view to the maintenance,
of our institutions in church and state. I learn with regret that you do
not concur with me as to the policy of the appeal which I have earnestly
made to the sense of my people. I never have exercised, and I will never
exercise any of the prerogatives which I hold, excepting for the single
purpose of promoting the great end for which they are entrusted to
me--the public good; and I confidently trust that no measure conducive
to the general interest will be endangered or interrupted in its
progress by the opportunity which I have afforded to my faithful and
loyal subjects of expressing their opinions through the choice of their
representatives in parliament." On a subsequent day, in answer to some
questions put by Lord John Russell, the premier stated that he had not
felt it his duty, in consequence of the vote on the address, to tender
his resignation; that with respect to the Irish church, he retained
his opinion that ecclesiastical property ought not to be diverted from
ecclesiastical purposes, although any measures not inconsistent with
this principle should have his best consideration; that he had no motive
or intention to obstruct corporation reform; and that, in regard to
a rumour which had been promulgated about another dissolution, and an
alleged intention of government, in case the mutiny bill should not
pass, to keep up a standing army in defiance of parliament, he had never
sanctioned the first either directly or indirectly, and he had never
heard a whisper about the second until it fell from Lord John Russell's
own lips. These assurances, however, were not sufficient to satisfy the
objections of his political opponents.

The conduct of Sir Robert Peel, in retaining office after an adverse
vote upon the address, became the subject of indignant declamation
throughout the country, and strengthened the general impression that
ministers intended, if possible, to destroy the measures enacted by the
reform bill, and to obstruct all further melioration of the law. It
was true, as the partisans of the government urged, that there were
precedents for the retention of office in the face of adverse votes; but
this was a vote upon the general policy of the government, not upon its
policy in some non-essential particular, and constitutionally decided
that the ministry did not possess the confidence of the commons house
of parliament. According to all rule and precedent, Sir Robert ought
to have resigned. The Duke of Sussex, Lord Holland, the great Fox, and
other statesmen of acknowledged constitutional principles and respect
for public rights, had always maintained these views. The conduct of Sir
Robert and his cabinet was, therefore, justly held to be opposed to the
practice of parliament and the doctrines of the constitution. Much of
the odium of this procedure fell upon the Duke of Wellington, who was
supposed to be the potential adviser of Sir Robert in this matter, and
whose despotic sympathies, betrayed in many ways, gave great offence
to the people. Had not the previous ministers, by their inconsistency,
incompetency, and truckling to O'Connell and the Irish priest party,
forfeited the confidence of a large portion of their British supporters,
the efforts of Sir Robert Peel to retain office in opposition to a
majority of parliament, would have created such a storm of hostility to
him throughout Great Britain, as would have made it difficult for him to
hold any office for many a year.


DISCUSSION IN THE LORDS RESPECTING THE SLAVERY ABOLITION ACT.

On the 27th of February the Earl of Mulgrave, whose efficient
administration of the government of Jamaica had made him an authority
on the West India slavery question, inquired of the secretary for the
colonies, whether it was the intention of the present government
to carry out the measure of emancipation recently passed through
parliament. Lord Mulgrave strongly represented to the house the
apprehensions entertained by the public that, in two respects, the
government would differ from its predecessor:--the appointment of
impartial magistrates--men not holders of slave property; and the
protection of the missionaries, to whom the planters entertained
an unjust prejudice, but who, in the experience of Lord Mulgrave in
Jamaica, were a most useful body of men, who had in no way transgressed
the bounds of their sacred calling in their conduct to slave or master.
To these inquiries and remarks the Earl of Aberdeen replied very much
in the tone and spirit in which he was accustomed to answer questions
when, many years later, during the Russian war, he was prime-minister.
He affected surprise that any one should suppose him an opponent
to freedom; promised everything that popular opinion demanded; but
betrayed, nevertheless, by his sneers and misrepresentations where the
missionaries were concerned, and his deep sympathy with the planters,
that his heart was set against justice and liberty to the poor
apprentices. The Duke of Wellington brusquely said, that he had been
opposed to the philanthropic view of the negro question altogether, but
the bill passed by parliament he would not consent to see made a dead
letter. The duke evidently said what he meant. The well-known honesty of
his character assured the Earl of Mulgrave who accepted the reply. It
was a good sign as to the policy which the cabinet intended to pursue
on this question, that the Marquis of Sligo was requested to retain his
office as Governor of Jamaica. The noble marquis was not an experienced
politician or administrator; but in his management of the difficult and
complicated concerns of Jamaica at that time, he proved himself to be a
man of ability and honour.


MOTION OF THE MARQUIS OF CHANDOS TO REPEAL THE MALT-TAX.

The first proposal which ministers found themselves compelled to resist
proceeded from one of their own supporters, and it was also one in which
their opponents were compelled to join them in resisting. On the 10th of
March, the Marquis of Chandos moved a resolution for the repeal of the
malt-tax, as a source of relief to the agricultural interest. The motion
was seconded by Mr. Hand-ley. Sir Robert Peel, in reply, contended that
the motion, if it was to be made at all, ought not to have been brought
forward till after an authentic declaration of the national means had
been laid before the house. In the course of his speech, Sir Robert Peel
said that if the malt-duty were repealed, there was no alternative but
to have a property-tax to make up the deficiency. Messrs. Cobbett and
Bennett, who supported the motion, saw no objection to such a tax; and
the latter gentleman said that the English landowners were too depressed
in their circumstances to fear anything from the change, as the property
was in the hands of the mortgagees and money-jobbers. The Earl of
Darlington was bound, he said, to vote in favour of the resolution,
however great his reluctance to do anything that might embarrass a
government to which he was friendly, and a minister who, he believed,
would endeavour to effect what he considered best calculated for the
interest of the country. Messrs. C. Wood, Rice, and Poulett Thompson,
all of whom had been connected with the late government, spoke against
the motion; as did also Sir Edward Knatchbull, Sir J. Graham, Mr.
Baring, Sir R. Gresely, and Mr. Grote. The debate was closed by Mr.
Hume, who supported the motion. On a division, however, the motion
was negatived by three hundred and fifty votes against one hundred and
ninety-two. So convincing were Sir Robert Peel's arguments, that several
members voted with him who had either pledged themselves at their
election to take a different side, or had, at least, induced their
constituents to believe they would.


THE DISSENTERS' MARRIAGE ACT.

Sir Robert Peel introduced the first important measure of government on
the 17th of March, being a bill to provide relief for those dissenters
who objected to have their marriage rites performed according to the
ritual of the English church. The measure provided that a civil marriage
should take place before a magistrate, who should refer the certificate
to the parish clergyman, by whom it was to be inserted in the parochial
registry. The various bodies of dissenters might, by arrangements of
their own, provide a religious form as a sort of addendum to the civil
ceremony. This brief affair was stated by Sir Robert in a very verbose
speech, in which he showed a desire to conciliate all parties, and an
apprehension that he would fail to conciliate any. Leave was given to
bring in a bill.


REPORT OF COMMISSION REGARDING THE CHURCH OF ENGLAND, ETC.

One of the first acts of the new ministry had been the appointment of
a commission, consisting principally of the heads of the church, to
inquire into and report upon the changes which might be effected in
regard to ecclesiastical territory, income, and patronage, so as to
render remuneration and labour more commensurate with each other; to
enforce residence; and to destroy the necessity of pluralities, by
providing for all a sufficient maintenance. The first report of this
commission was presented to the house of commons on the 19th of March,
which proposed a new arrangement of diocesses. As regards emolument, the
principle adopted was to proportion, as far as might be, the revenues
of the bishops to their several stations and duties; not making any
reduction where the income did not exceed £5500, and making an addition
where it amounted to £4500. The division of large parishes was further
recommended; the revenues of new incumbents being supplied from prebends
and other preferments which might fall.

On the 12th of March the attorney-general obtained leave to bring in
a bill for improving, the administration of justice in ecclesiastical
causes, which was one of the measures alluded to in the speech from the
throne. On the same day also he obtained leave to bring in another bill,
having for its object the better maintenance of the discipline of the
church of England. On the 24th of March, Sir Robert Peel brought the
subject of the commutation of tithes in England before the house of
commons. After a long statement explanatory of his views, he concluded
by moving the following resolution:--"That it is expedient to give
facilities for the commutation of tithe in the several parishes of
England and Wales, and for a payment in moneys, in substitution thereof
to be allotted on the tithable lands in each parish; such payment to be
subject to variation at stated periods, according to the prices of corn,
or for the allotment of land in lieu of tithe in parishes wherein the
parties concerned may consent to such allotment." This resolution was
agreed to, and a bill founded on it was ordered to be brought in.


REPEATED DEFEATS OF THE MINISTRY IN THE HOUSE OF COMMONS.

While the ministry, by the introduction of these important measures,
were vindicating their claim to the character of men who in their policy
regarded the prosperity of the country, and were not wedded to anything
which might interfere with its welfare, their conduct in other
matters furnished manifold indications of the same spirit, and hence
disappointed the opposition, which had predicted the continuance and the
restoration of every species of abuse. Several committees which had been
appointed by the late government were re-appointed; and they professed
themselves willing to carry out their well-founded measures. But,
notwithstanding all this, their rule was brief; they were unable to
disarm the spirit of hostility. During the period in which ministers
were proposing their important measures, some minor topics were
introduced, in which they found themselves unable to resist the
numerical force of their opponents. Thus they were left in a minority on
the subject of a petition presented, complaining of Colonel Tremenhere,
an officer in the public service at Chatham, as having interfered
unconstitutionally in the election for that borough, in which election
the government candidate had been returned. Ministers were also left in
a minority, when Mr. Tooke moved an "address to his majesty, beseeching
him to grant his royal charter of incorporation to the London
University, as approved in the year 1831, by the then law-officers of
the crown, and containing no other restriction than against conferring
degrees in divinity and medicine." Mr. Goulburn moved, as an amendment,
that the address should be for copies of the memorials which had been
presented against granting the charter, together with an account of the
proceedings before the privy-council; but, on a division, the motion was
carried by a majority of two hundred and forty-six against one-hundred
and thirty-six. On the 1st of April the king returned this answer to the
address:--"That his majesty, desirous that such a subject should receive
the fullest consideration, had referred it to his privy-council; that
the reply of his privy-council had not as yet been communicated to him;
but that his majesty begged to assure his most faithful commons that he
should call upon his privy-council without delay, for a report of the
proceedings they had adopted on the subject, in order to enable his
majesty to judge what would be the best mode of carrying into effect
the wishes of his faithful commons respecting a charter to the London
University, and what might be the conditions on which it should be
granted." These questions, however, did not distinctly affect the
government. Frequent hints, indeed, were given to Sir Robert Peel that
he ought to retire; but as yet no motion was ventured which, if carried,
must necessarily have led to that result. On one occasion, Lord John
Russell having remarked that all the prerogatives of the crown seemed in
a fair way of being successively compromised, in the course of what he
called an attempt on the part of the administration to govern with
a majority of tire house of commons against them, Sir Robert-Peel
complained that the opposition did not bring the question of the
retirement of the ministry to a fair issue. No one was more anxious for
this, he said, than he himself was; and if the opposition could not find
a day for the purpose, he would facilitate their views. He asked Lord
John Russell whether, if ministers had thrown up the government, he
would not have turned round on them and said, "You are guilty of a
cowardly abandonment of office; you never meant to remove grievances; we
never brought forward a direct vote of censure; we were prepared to hear
your propositions; but you yourself have shrunk from the trial." Mr.
Hume admitted that ministers had reason to complain that the question
had not yet been brought to an issue; but he hinted at the same time the
opposition would take their own time and day for the attack. Lord John
Russell said, that if a direct vote of want of confidence had been
brought forward, ministers might have gained a number of votes on the
plea of being unfairly treated. They might have said to the opposition,
"You now preclude us from being heard; you want to condemn us without
trial; and to reject our reforms before you are able to judge of them."
He would not expose himself to the chance of receiving such an answer;
he would wait for the promised measures of reform. The reply sent by
the king to the house of commons on the 1st of April created great
dissatisfaction in the minds of the liberal members, and among their
supporters in the country. It was denounced as another instance of
"back-stairs government" by many; this phrase was intended to describe
the influence of the queen, and certain ladies of her suite, in
political matters. Many of the people, however, absolved the court from
all blame, and attributed what so much offended them to the despotic
opinions and dispositions of the cabinet, especially "the duke" and Sir
Robert Peel. This feeling was chiefly directed against his grace.


THE QUESTION OF THE APPROPRIATION OF THE SURPLUS OF THE REVENUES OF THE
IRISH CHURCH.

On the 20th of March Sir Henry Hardinge, the secretary for Ireland,
brought forward, in a committee of the whole house, the ministerial plan
for settling the Irish tithe question, and moved a resolution to this
effect:--"That it is expedient to abolish tithes in Ireland, and to
authorise a composition in lieu of it, charged upon the land, and
payment to the tithe-owner; that such rent-charge might be redeemed, and
the redemption money invested in land or otherwise, for the benefit of
the persons entitled to such composition; and that the arrears of
tithe due in the year 1834 should be made up from what remained of the
£1.000,000 advanced by parliament to the clergy of Ireland in 1833."
After a determined resistance from a large portion of the radical
members, the motion was carried by a majority of fifteen. This would
probably not have been the case, had not Lord John Russell given Sir
Robert Peel a qualified support.

Ministers had brought forward everything that could be done practically
to remove the evils attending the collection of tithes in Ireland; and
the opposition propounded no measure which would go further in the way
of securing or arranging the payment of tithe to the Protestant church;
they even complained that the new government was merely imitating the
conduct of its predecessors. Their only position now was to maintain
that it was not enough merely to place on a better and surer foundation
the collection of tithe for the Protestant church, but that, to some
extent at least, though to what extent nobody attempted to define, it
must cease to exist as tithe payable to the Protestant church, and be
applied to purposes in which Catholics might have an equal interest.
This ground was now taken by the opposition. On the 30th of March Lord
John Russell moved the following resolution:--"That this house resolve
itself into a committee of the whole house, in order to consider the
present state of the church establishment in Ireland, with the view of
applying any surplus of the revenues not required for the spiritual care
of its members to the general education of all classes of the people,
without distinction of religious persuasion." Lord John Russell said,
that if the house should resolve itself into a committee on the motion,
and should the resolution be carried in a committee of the whole house,
he would move an address to the crown, embodying that resolution with an
humble entreaty to his majesty, that he would be pleased to enable the
house to carry it into effect--for a measure of this kind should be
introduced by a message from the crown. The debate which followed was
continued by adjournment up to the 2nd of April. Sir Edward Knatchbull,
who followed Lord John Russell, objected to the proposition itself, he
said, on the distinct ground that he was not prepared to apply church
property to other than Protestant church purposes. Mr. Ward, whose
motion of a similar character had been set aside by the appointment of
the commission, entered at great length into the general question of the
right of the state to appropriate church property to whatever purposes
it thought proper; contending that no member should give his vote
without remembering the undoubted right which parliament possessed of
dealing with all corporate property as the welfare of the community
might require, and of so disposing of it as to accommodate its
distribution to that state of things which the alterations of time
might unfold, or the progress of society occasion. Sir James Graham, in
opposing the motion, showed that the income of the Irish church did not
amount to so large a sum as represented by opposition; and contended
that the evils of the proposed appropriation would not be limited to
Ireland, but would extend to England: the church of England would not
only be endangered by it, but ultimately destroyed. Lord Howick spoke
in favour of the resolution, but at the same time disclaimed all
participation in any wish that it should be the means of turning out the
ministry. Messrs Shiei, Poulter, and Wood also supported the resolution;
and Messrs. Lefroy and Gladstone, and Sir R. Inglis spoke against it.
Sir William Follett, the solicitor-general, followed on the same side as
the latter. Mr. O'Connell, after reiterating his charge of misrule, said
that he would avoid any discussion upon tithes, and content himself with
laying down the broad principle that the emoluments of a church ought
not to be raised from a people who did not belong to it. Ireland did
not ask a Catholic establishment; the Irish desired political equality
alone; they would not accept a shilling for their church. Their church
was unpolluted by the mammon of unrighteousness; the voluntary principle
had answered every purpose of the Catholics, and they desired no
connexion with the state in matters of religion. It was said, he
continued, that the number of Protestants was on the increase in
Ireland; he contended that the reverse was the case. It was said, also,
that there was danger in giving the Catholics ascendancy; they had been
in power three times since the Reformation, and they had not persecuted
the Protestants. The address of Mr. O'Connell aided very much in
deciding the question against the government. His protestations of
moderation as to the desires of enlightened Roman Catholics, and his
disclaimers of any wish for the ascendancy of his church, produced an
effect favourable to Lord John's motion among such liberal members of
the house as possessed little knowledge of ecclesiastical history. The
protestations of Mr. O'Connell were as insincere as his statements were
historically untrue. His church had never been in power without efforts
to persecute; and while he made the voluntary principle his confession
of faith, it was notorious to the leading Whigs that his pet measure
was the purchase of glebes for the Irish priesthood by the funds of
the state, and the further endowment of Maynooth College on an enlarged
scale. After various addresses, especially one in a very defiant strain
by Sir Robert Peel, Lord John Russell briefly replied, and the motion
was carried by a majority of three hundred and twenty-two against two
hundred and eighty-nine.

The next step was to consider the resolution in committee; and Sir
Robert Peel proposed that the committee should not be taken till the
following Monday; but the opposition, flushed with victory, would not
consent to a single day's intermission. They insisted that the committee
should be taken that very day, which was done; and the debate continued
by adjournment on the 5th. In the committee, Lord John Russell
substituted "moral and religious instruction" for "general education."
On a division in the committee, two hundred and sixty-two voted in
favour of the resolution, and two hundred and thirty-seven against it.
In the meantime the opposition had partly changed their intended plan
of operation. It had been announced by them that the carrying of the
resolution would be followed up by an address to the crown; but Lord
John Russell now gave notice that he would interpose another step
between the house and the throne, by asking the former to pledge itself
to this further resolution:--"That it is the opinion of this house
that no measure upon the subject of tithes in Ireland can lead to a
satisfactory and final adjustment, which does not embody the principle
contained in the foregoing resolution." Sir Robert Peel allowed the
report to be brought up without a division, but he said that he would
certainly divide the house on the new resolution. In support of it, Lord
John Russell treated it as a necessary corollary of what the house had
already voted; it behoved the house, he said, to continue the work which
they had begun, and to say that the principle which they had declared to
be essential to the maintenance of peace and the due administration of
justice in Ireland, should be carried into effect by some legislative
measure. The resolution was opposed by Sir Robert Peel and Mr. George
Sinclair; while Messrs. Spring Rice, Perrin, and Gisborne supported it.
On a division, the resolution was carried by a majority of two hundred
and eighty-five against two hundred and fifty-eight.


RESIGNATION OF MINISTERS, AND RESTORATION OF LORD MELBOURNE'S CABINET.

{WILLIAM IV. 1835--1836}

The majorities of the opposition caused the resignation of ministers. On
the meeting of the house, April 8th, Sir Robert Peel stated that he and
his colleagues had placed their offices at the disposal of the king.
On the same evening a similar announcement was made in the lords by
the Duke of Wellington. After Sir Robert Peel's announcement of his
resignation, the house of commons met on the 9th for an election ballot,
and then adjourned till the 13th. On that day the house was informed by
Sir Robert Peel that he had received an intimation from his majesty that
the new arrangements were in progress, but were not completed, and the
house again adjourned till the 16th. On the 16th Sir Robert was under
the necessity of making a similar communication, and the house adjourned
to the 18th, on which day the new administration was announced in both
houses of parliament. The new cabinet was formed as follows:--Viscount
Melbourne resumed his place as first lord of the treasury; Mr.
Spring-Rice became chancellor of the exchequer; Lord Auckland was the
first lord of the admiralty; Sir John Cam Hob-house, president of the
board of control; Mr. Poulett Thompson, president of the board of trade;
Lord Dun-cannon was placed at the head of the woods and forests; Lord
John Russell took his place in the home department; the colonial office
was given to Mr. Charles Grant; the seals of the foreign office
were again entrusted to Lord Palmerston; Viscount Howick was
secretary-at-war; Sir Henry Parnell was paymaster-general; Mr. Cutlar
Ferguson, judge-advocate-general; and Sir John Campbell and Mr.
Rolfe again became attorney and solicitor-general. There was no
lord-chancellor appointed; the great seal was put in commission, the
commissioners being the master of the rolls, the vice-chancellor,
and Mr. Justice Bosanquet; Lord Mulgrave was made lord-lieutenant of
Ireland, with Lord Plunkett once more as chancellor, and Lord Morpeth
as Irish secretary. Mr. Perrin was named attorney-general, and Mr.
O'Loghlin, solicitor-general. The lord-advocate of Scotland was Mr. J.
A. Murray; the Marquis of Conyngham was postmaster-general; and the
Marquis of Welles-ley, lord-chamberlain. After the announcement had
been made, the house adjourned to the 30th of April, but with an
understanding that no public business should be undertaken till the 12th
of May. In the upper house Lord Alvanley asked Lord Melbourne how the
ministry stood in regard to Mr. O'Connell and his followers. He wished
to know whether government had or had not secured their aid; and
if they had, the terms on which that support had been obtained. Lord
Brougham said that these questions were improper, and advised Lord
Melbourne not to answer them. Lord Melbourne, however, was more
courteous. The noble lord had asked him, he said, how far he coincided
in opinion with Mr. O'Connell? His answer was, "Not at all. As for the
question as to 'whether I have taken any means to secure the assistance
of Mr. O'Connell, and if so, on what terms?' I answer that I do not know
whether I shall have his assistance or not. I have taken no means to
secure it, nor have I said anything from which any inference could be
drawn in order to secure that individual's support." As to tithes,
Lord Melbourne said, that he did not hesitate to say that he considered
himself pledged to act on the resolution of the other house. After the
houses had adjourned, the new ministers who belonged to the commons
sought to be re-elected; but although they were in general successful,
they encountered some failures. The severest stroke of all occurred in
the case of Lord John Russell himself: he again presented himself to the
electors of the southern division of Devonshire; but he was defeated
by Mr. Parker, and he did not procure a seat till after parliament
had reassembled. Colonel Fox, member for Stroud, accepted the Chiltern
hundreds in his favour, and became secretary to the ordnance. By a
similar negotiation, Mr. Kennedy, member for Tiverton, made room
for Lord Palmerston. These failures were very discouraging, and gave
symptoms of the alarm which had been created in the public mind.


MUNICIPAL REFORM AND THE IRISH CHURCH.

When the new ministers explained what they intended to do this session,
it was found that the only measures which they meant to bring forward
were a bill for the reform of municipal corporations, and a bill founded
on the late resolutions of the commons regarding tithes. Changes in the
mode of electing municipal authorities and in the general government of
boroughs had become inevitable from, and after the passing of the reform
bill. A commission had been appointed, in 1833, to inquire into the
state of corporations in England and Wales; and on more than one
occasion his majesty had alluded, in his royal speeches, to the objects
of the commission. The report of the commissioners had not been made
when Sir Robert Peel went out of office, but soon after they framed a
general report, besides separate reports on individual corporations.
The former, and several of the latter, were presented in May, and
the general report thus concluded:--"In conclusion, we report to your
majesty, that there prevails amongst the inhabitants of a great
majority of the incorporated towns a general, and in our opinion a just,
dissatisfaction with their municipal institutions; a distrust of the
self-elected municipal councils, whose powers are subject to no popular
control, and whose acts and proceedings, being secret, are unchecked by
the influence of public opinion; a distrust of the municipal magistracy,
tainting with suspicion the local administration of justice, and
often accompanied with contempt of the persons by whom the law is
administered; a discontent under the burdens of local taxation, while
revenues that ought to be applied for the public advantage are diverted
from their legitimate use, and are sometimes wastefully bestowed for the
benefit of individuals--sometimes squandered for purposes injurious to
the character and morals of the people. We therefore feel it to be
our duty to represent to your majesty that the existing municipal
corporations of England and Wales neither possess nor deserve the
confidence or respect of your majesty's subjects, and that a thorough
reform must be effected before they can become what we humbly submit to
your majesty they ought to be--useful and efficient instruments of local
government." Lord John Russell, proceeding on this recommendation,
on the 5th of June detailed the plan of municipal government which
ministers intended to provide for one hundred and eighty-three
corporations. After detailing the many abuses which existed, he said
that, instead of the present irregular government of corporations, it
was proposed that there should be one uniform system of government--one
uniform franchise for the purpose of election: and the like description
of officers, with the exception of some of the larger places, in which
it might be desirable to have a recorder, or some other magistrates
different from the other smaller boroughs. In regard to the
qualification of electors, he said it had been determined not to adhere
to the parliamentary franchise. By the proposed bill they would be
obliged to pay the borough rates, and accord to the established
practice of the English government, and the acknowledged and recognised
principles of the British constitution. He thought it fair that they
should have a voice in the election of those by whom the rates were
made, and by whom the corporate funds were expended. As, however,
the electors ought to be the fixed inhabitants of the town, known to
contribute to the rates, it was proposed that they should be persons
who had been rated for three years, and had regularly paid those rates.
Provision was also made in the bill for the case of those individuals
who might have omitted to pay their rates. In regard to the governing
body, there was to be one only--a mayor and common-council. The
common-council would consist of various numbers, generally regulated by
the population of the different places; their numbers would vary from
fifteen in the smallest places to ninety in the largest. It was proposed
that the largest towns, of which there were only twenty, should be
divided into wards, and a certain proportion, which would be regulated
by the schedules to the bill, of common-councillors should be chosen
in each ward. In all the rest of the boroughs it was proposed that the
whole common-council should be elected for three years. They were to be
elected for three years; but one-third were to go out of office every
year, thus taking care that two-thirds of the common-council should
have experience in the transaction of town business. The mayor was to be
elected annually, and he was to be, during the time of his mayoralty,
a justice of peace for the borough and likewise for the county. The
town-council was to have the power of appointing a town-clerk and
treasurer, and it was left to their option whether they would retain
their present town-clerks in their office. If, however, another was
chosen, and the dismissal of the present town-clerk was attended with
any pecuniary loss to the individual, he was to receive compensation.
All the old modes of acquiring the freedom of a corporation, such
as birth and apprenticeship, were to be abolished; but all pecuniary
rights, such as rights of common, exemption from tolls, &c., would
be preserved to the persons now enjoying them, during their lives; in
future, however, no person should be a burgess, or admitted into the
corporations, except in consequence of the permanent occupancy of a
house, and the payment of the borough rates. All exclusive rights of
trade were to be abolished, due regard being paid to the pecuniary
interests of existing individuals. It was proposed, touching the
pecuniary affairs of corporations, that town-councils should have the
power to appoint committees in order to manage their financial matters;
that their accounts should be regularly audited; and that they should
no longer be secret accounts, but regularly brought before the public.
Town-councils were further to become the trustees of charitable funds,
appointing a committee, if they thought proper, to manage them. For the
management o? these funds a separate secretary and treasurer was to
be appointed, and provision was made for auditing them in a different
manner from the general accounts of the borough. The number of persons
chosen for the management of these charitable estates were not to be
less than fifteen, and they were to be chosen from among the general
body of burgesses. The police, as far as regarded the watching of the
towns, were to be placed under the control of the town-council.
The power of granting alehouse licences was also to be left to
town-councils, or to a committee chosen by them from their own numbers,
to grant these licences. It was proposed to divide the one hundred and
eighty-three boroughs into two schedules; the greater part of these, one
hundred and twenty-nine, were to be placed in schedule A, and would have
a commission of the peace granted them. The remaining fifty-four might
also, if they chose, have a commission of the peace on application to
the crown. With respect to those in schedule A, the town-councils were
to have the power of recommending to the crown certain persons whom
they thought proper to receive the commission of the peace within the
borough; but they were not to have the power of electing magistrates in
such sense as that the assent of the crown should not be necessary to
perfect the election. These magistrates were not to have the power
of sitting in quarter-sessions; but the bill enacted that, on a
town-council applying to the crown for the establishment of a court of
quarter-sessions, and stating that they were willing to continue the
salary paid to the recorder, the recorder should be retained if a
barrister of five years' standing. With respect to other towns desiring
to have quarter-sessions, but which either had no recorder, or where the
recorder was not a barrister of five years' standing, it was intended
that the crown should in future have the nomination of that officer. Sir
Robert Peel said that he would present no impediment to the introduction
of the bill, but would reserve all consideration of its details, every
one of which deserved a separate discussion, to a future stage of
proceedings. The bill was read a second time, without debate and without
opposition, on the 15th of June, and the committee began on tire 22nd
of the same month. The first disputed point regarded the fixing of the
boundaries of those boroughs whose limits had not been defined in the
act passed for that purpose in reference to the reform bill. The bill
provided, "That they should be, and remain the same as they are now
taken to be, until such time as his majesty shall have been pleased to
issue his letters-patent under the great seal, that he may be certified
concerning the fit metes and bounds to be allotted unto the same
respectively, and until such further time as it shall please his
majesty, by advice of his privy-council, upon inspection of the return
thereof made by the commissioners unto whom such letters-patent
shall have been directed, to declare fit metes and bounds of the said
last-named boroughs, and the metes and bounds of the said last-named
boroughs thenceforward, for the purposes of this act, shall be the same
so declared as last aforesaid." This was objected to by several members,
as placing a dangerous power where it ought not to be placed. Sir Robert
Peel said, he would consent that the boundaries of the existing boroughs
should continue as they were until they should be otherwise settled by
parliament: and Lord Stuart Dudley, although a friend of the ministry,
moved an amendment to that effect. He was supported by Sir James Graham,
Mr. Goulburn, and other members, who argued, that the clause gave the
crown a power which the crown ought not to possess, and devolved upon
the executive, duties which clearly belonged to the legislature. Lord
John Russell said, he had no objection to add words to the effect that
his majesty having appointed a commission to settle the boundaries,
the report of that commission should be laid before parliament at its
meeting, and the boundaries therein named should be and remain the
boundaries of these boroughs, unless parliament should otherwise decide.
Lord Dudley Stuart, however, pressed his motion to a division; but it
was lost by a majority of two hundred and fifty-nine against one hundred
and ninety-two. A more important discussion took place on the clause
which affected the rights of existing freemen, and the future modes of
acquiring freedom in corporations. The bill enacted, "That after the
passing of this act no person shall be elected, admitted, or enrolled a
citizen, freeman, liveryman, or burgess, of any borough, or by any name,
a member of any body corporate in respect of any right or title other
than by occupancy and payment of rates within such borough, according to
the meaning and provisions of the act." Sir William Follett opposed
this sacrifice of freemen; and he moved an amendment to the effect
of preserving their rights without interfering with the municipal
government of corporate bodies. Government vehemently opposed this
amendment; but various members accustomed to go with ministers declared
their intention to vote for it. Sir James Graham thought it would
simplify the question if the amendments were limited to the rights of
freemen under the reform bill, because the question of inchoate rights
would arise more properly under another clause. Sir William Follett
acceded to this suggestion; but Lord John Russell still maintained that
the provision contained in the clause was a necessary consequence of
adopting this new municipal franchise; and, if so, ministers were not
proposing it for the sake of altering the reform bill, but for the sake
of amending the municipal corporations. The amendment said that the
clause must not affect either the rights of property or the privileges
to which the freemen were at present entitled. Many of these rights
and privileges were of a description hurtful to the inhabitants of towns
generally; many of them consisted in a monopoly of trades; and many in
an exemption of tolls to which the inhabitants generally were liable.
Lord Stanley supported the amendment: he could not see how the clause
came to appear in a bill which professed to be a measure to provide for
the regulation of the municipal corporations in England and Wales. On
a division the clause was carried by a majority of two hundred and
seventy-eight against two hundred and thirty-two.

The question, however, was again raised by Mr. Praed, who moved the
following amendment:--"Provided always, and be it enacted, that in every
borough, whether the same be a county of itself or not, where the right
to vote in the election of members or a member to serve in parliament
for such borough, is, according to the laws now in force, enjoyed by
persons entitled to vote in virtue of some corporate right, nothing
whatsoever in this act contained shall in anywise hinder or prevent any
person or persons who now enjoy, or who hereafter, according to the laws
now in force, might have acquired such corporate right, from enjoying
or acquiring such corporate right for the purpose of voting in such
elections." In opposing this amendment, Lord John Russell denied that he
was interfering by this municipal bill with the parliamentary franchise:
he was not enacting that there should be no freemen; and, therefore,
though there would no longer be freemen voting for members of
parliament, that was only an incidental consequence of the principle of
the bill, which principle was again brought into action, not with a
view to parliamentary franchise, but solely with a view to municipal
government. The amendment was lost by a majority of two hundred and
thirty-four against two hundred and sixty-two. Another amendment, moved
by Mr. Ponsonby, for the purpose of protecting inchoate rights of
freemen, was equally unsuccessful, being negatived by a majority of two
hundred and thirty-four to two hundred and three. The bill arranged all
the boroughs into two classes, according to their population, the
larger boroughs being divided into wards. In all these boroughs the bill
required no qualification in the common-councilmen, except that of being
rate-payers. Sir Robert Peel moved as an amendment, "Provided such
members of council who shall be elected in boroughs divided into wards
shall, at the time of their election, be seized or possessed of personal
property of the clear value of £1000, or that they shall be rated on
a rental of not less than £40 a-year: and also, provided that all such
members elected in towns not divided into wards shall, at the time of
their election, be seized or possessed of property, real or personal,
of the clear value of £500, or be rated to the relief of the poor on a
rental of not less than £20." Sir Robert founded his amendment on what
had been the usual practice in enactments regarding corporate towns.
It was true that, according to ancient practice, no pecuniary
qualifications were required for members of corporations; but the spirit
of the charter was, that persons fit for their respective offices
should be appointed; and he apprehended that, even in those self-elected
corporations, whatever might be their defects in other respects, care
was taken to elect persons of wealth and respectability. In opposing the
amendment, Lord John Russell, Sir J. C. Hobhouse, Mr. Blackburne, and
other members, argued, that it was in contradiction to the spirit of
the bill, not agreeable to the provisions of the original charters,
incapable of being generally and fitly applied, and not productive of
any practical benefit. It was lost by a majority of two hundred and
sixty-seven against two hundred and four. On the same day Lord Stanley
moved an amendment on the clause which fixed the periods of election,
which he proposed should take place only every second year; but this
also was lost by a majority of two hundred and twenty against one
hundred and seventy-six. Mr. Grote attempted to engraft on this part of
the bill a modification of his favourite measure of vote by ballot; but
the amendment was withdrawn. A division took place on the clause of the
bill which declared that the town-clerk should be removable at pleasure;
but it was retained by a majority of sixty. Sir James Graham was also
unsuccessful in an amendment on the clause which gave to the set of men
who should once get into office a formidable instrument for maintaining
their predominance, by vesting in the council the power of granting or
refusing all licences within the limits of the borough; the original
clause was retained by a majority of forty-five. The labours of the
committee were finished, and the report received on the 17th of July;
and on the 20th the bill was read a third time without a division, the
opponents of the bill leaving it to the house of lords to accomplish
those ameliorations in its enactments which they deemed requisite.

The day fixed for the second reading of the municipal bill in the house
of lords was the 28th of July. On that day petitions were presented
against it from Coventry, Doncaster, Lancaster, Worcester, Lincoln, and
other corporations, praying to be heard against the bill by counsel;
and from Bristol and Liverpool, praying to be heard against it by their
respective recorders. It was moved, that the petitioners should be heard
by counsel, which Lord Melbourne opposed. The Duke of Wellington and
other peers contended that it would be a denial of justice to refuse to
hear parties against a measure which affected their character as well
as their interests. Lord Brougham also said that there would be no
objection to counsel being heard, provided the matter was so arranged
as to prevent that hearing from becoming interminable. He suggested that
two counsel should state all that was to be stated for the whole of the
corporations. In this suggestion Lord Melbourne concurred, and it was
agreed to by the whole house, after which the bill was read a second
time _pro forma_. The hearing of the counsel commenced on the 30th of
July, and was continued up to the 1st of August. The two gentlemen who
appeared for the corporations were Sir Charles Wetherell and Mr. Knight,
who insisted largely on the general character of the bill, as putting
an end to all rights enjoyed under any corporate charter in the kingdom;
and attacked the reports made by the commission regarding the different
boroughs. They claimed a right to tender evidence in order to prove the
ignorance and partiality with which the corporations had been treated.
After the counsel had concluded their argument, Lord Melbourne gave
notice that he would oppose any motion for allowing evidence to be
adduced in defence of any corporation. Notwithstanding this notice,
however, on the 3rd of August, after his lordship had moved that the
house should go into committee on the bill, the Earl of Carnarvon moved,
as an amendment, that evidence should now be taken at the bar of the
house in support of the allegations of the several petitions. After a
long debate on this counter-motion, which was strenuously opposed by
the ministers and their party, the house determined in its favour by a
majority of one hundred and twenty-four to fifty-four.

Evidence was now heard at the bar, which occupied the house from the
5th to the 8th of August. Witnesses were examined in relation to about
thirty boroughs; and the evidence went to show that the commissioners
had acted like attorneys employed to get up a case, and with but little
prudence, since they chiefly derived their information from partizans
of their own opinions. The evidence having been finished, the house
went into committee on the bill on the 12th of August, when the Duke
of Newcastle proposed the rejection of the bill, by moving that the
committee should be taken that day'six months. He did not, however,
press his motion to a division, the conservative peers having resolved
to pass the bill, in so far as they thought it might do good, after
stripping it of those provisions which seemed to be most operative for
evil. Lord Lyndhurst proposed the first alteration; He moved a clause
preserving to all freemen, to every person who might be a freeman but
for this measure, and to their widows and children, or the husband
of their daughters or widows, the same rights in the property of the
boroughs as would have belonged to them by its laws and customs if this
act had not been passed. He did not refer, he said, to general corporate
property, but to individual and specific rights of property enjoyed by
freemen in many boroughs--rights of commons and others. Lord Melbourne
opposed the motion. He would not be disinclined, he said, to consider
a proposal for extending the period during which these rights should be
preserved further than it was now fixed by the bill; but he could
not consent to preserve in perpetuity rights which he believed to be
prejudicial both to the freemen themselves and to the whole community.
The Earls of Haddington and Ripon supported the amendment, while
Lords Plunkett and Brougham, and the Marquis of Lansdowne opposed it,
contending that the rights to which the bill put an end were not rights
of property. On a division the amendment was carried by one hundred
and thirty against thirty-seven; and, thus victorious, Lord Lyndhurst
immediately moved another, to preserve the freemen their parliamentary
franchise as secured by the reform bill. Lord Melbourne was hostile to
this amendment; but as there was no hope of success, he did not call
for a division, and it was adopted. Another amendment, moved by
Lord Lyndhurst, which required a certain qualification in the town
councillors, after stern opposition from the ministers, was carried by
a majority of one hundred and twenty to thirty-nine. The next alteration
proposed by the opposition peers was an amendment which provided that a
fixed proportion of the town-council should hold office for life. This
was described by the supporters of the bill as being more glaringly
inconsistent with the principle of the bill than any of those which had
been adopted. To agree to it, they said, was to lose the bill; but it
was carried by one hundred and twenty-six against thirty-nine. Further
amendments proposed by the conservative peers were agreed to without
much discussion, and without any division. The provisions which declared
that persons who were at present justices of the peace under borough
charters should cease to be so in future, were struck out, as were the
clauses which took from the county magistrates, and gave to the new
town-councils the power of granting licenses. The ecclesiastical
patronage of the town-council was further limited to the members of the
church of England; and it was decided that town-clerks should hold
their offices during good behaviour. All towns containing six thousand
inhabitants instead of twelve thousand were to be divided into wards;
and the number of councillors allotted to each was to be fixed by a
compound ratio of members and property. Finally, instead of the power of
dividing boroughs into wards, and fixing the number of councillors which
each ward should return, being left to the king in council, who could
only act through commissioners, it was given to the revising barristers;
and instead of the determination of the boundaries of the burgal
territory being left to the government of the new councils, the peers
retained it in the hands of parliament. The bill, as amended, was passed
by the house of lords on the 28th of August, and the amendments were
brought before the commons on the 31st. Lord John Russell in bringing
them before the house, said that the lords, by their mode of proceeding,
had caused their own amendments to be viewed in a more unfavourable
light than would have belonged to them, if they had merely been the
result of calm deliberation. The question, however, for the house was,
whether the bill even as altered, might not be moulded into an efficient
instrument of good municipal government. He would not recommend the
adoption of the amendments by which town-clerks were made irremovable,
and by which borough magistrates who were now justices by virtue of
their offices, should continue to be so. Neither was he favourable
to the provision inserted by the lords, that a certain number of
councillors, under the name of aldermen, should be elected for life; he
would rather propose that the same number of members of the town-council
as the lords proposed should be elected for life, should be chosen for
a period of six years, and that one half should always be made at 'the
expiration of three years. Another amendment, from which he did not
intend to dissent altogether, regarded the divisions of towns into
wards; he proposed that instead of six thousand inhabitants there
should be nine thousand in any borough so divided. As regards the lords'
amendment, which gave the crown the power of nominating justices, he
proposed that the house should not agree with the alteration. In most
of the other amendments he concurred; but he would not ask the house
to accede to the provision which limited the exercise of ecclesiastical
patronage to such members of the town-councils as might belong to the
church of England, or to that clause which perpetuated the exemption
from toll enjoyed by freemen in certain boroughs. The radical section
of the commons blamed ministers for conceding too much, and indulged in
violent language against the house of lords. Mr. Roebuck asked why the
real representatives of the people should bear the insults of the lords,
when they had the power to crush them? He was an advocate for democracy,
and the sooner they brought the matter to an issue the better. It was
necessary to stir up the people upon this subject to something like a
revolution. On the part of the conservative members of the house there
was, also, a difference of opinion; some thought that the amendments of
the lords should be preserved in all their integrity, while others
were of opinion that the modifications proposed by ministers should be
adopted.

Sir Robert Peel, after entering at length into the merits of the
amendments adopted by the lords, in which he generally concurred,
proposed an additional and alternative qualification for voters--namely,
the being rated in £30 in the larger, and £15 in the smaller boroughs.
Ministers acceded to this. But there was a greater difficulty
encountered in dealing with the exercise of ecclesiastical patronage.
Lord John Russell proposed the rejection of the amendment of the lords
on this subject; but Mr. Spring Rice proposed an expedient, which was
ultimately adopted, to insert a clause directing the ecclesiastical
patronage belonging to boroughs to be sold, and the price to be invested
for the purpose of being applied to the public good of the boroughs. The
amendments of the commons were taken into consideration by the lords on
the 4th of September, and were agreed to with few exceptions. They still
retained, however, their original amendments providing that justices
should be named by the crown, and that the division into wards should
begin with boroughs containing a population of six thousand. On the 7th
of September the commons agreed to the bill as it had been returned to
them from the house of lords, and in that shape it finally passed.

In the meantime, while the lords were occupied in the consideration
of the municipal bill, the commons were occupied with the Irish church
bill. Lord Morpeth brought this measure forward on the 26th of June, and
in doing so, he stated that, in conformity with the bill of last year,
and of that which the late government had contemplated, he proposed to
convert the existing composition into an annual rent-charge, payable by
the owners of the first estate of inheritance, or such other equivalent
estate as would be defined by the bill, equal to seven-tenths of the
amount of composition, or £70 for every £100, charging the cost of
collection, to the amount of sixpence in the pound, on the tithe-owners.
He thought it advisable to make a distinction not only between existing
and future clerical incumbents, but also between clergymen and lay
impropriators; and he proposed that the existing clerical incumbent
should receive £73 8s. for every £100 of composition, the additional
five per cent, being charged upon the perpetuity purchase-fund. As the
machinery of the bill, he said, was similar to that of last year, he
did not feel called upon to enter into any of the details respecting the
real charges payable to the crown, and the investments which would be
placed under the management of the commissioners of land revenue. The
bill would authorise a revision and revaluation of benefices for the
tithe composition; and it was likewise proposed to extend the provisions
of Lord Tenterden's act for the limitation of suits to Ireland, in the
same way as it was included in the bill of last year. By the report of
the commissioners of public instruction, the members of the established
church amounted to 853,064, the presbyterians to 642,356, and other
dissenters to 21,808 persons; tire number of Roman Catholics was
6,427,712, in other words, the members of the established church
amounted to 853,064, and the number of those who dissented was
7,091,876. The distribution of the members of the established church,
also, was as disproportionate as their total amount; in the diocese of
Dromore, there were 264 members for every 1000 acres; in the diocese of
Glogher 26 to every 1000 acres, and in the diocese of Tuam there were
only 8 to every 1000 acres. It was proposed, therefore, to suspend
the presentation to every benefice in Ireland where the number of
Protestants did not exceed fifty. In the case of a suspended parish, in
which there was any number of members of the establishment from one to
fifty, the ecclesiastical commissioners would be empowered, subject to
the approbation and consent of the lord-lieutenant in council, either to
assign the cure of souls in that parish to the care of the neighbouring
minister, or else to appoint a separate curate. It would further be
enacted, that, in all parishes where there now existed a church and a
resident officiating minister, a separate curate should be appointed.
When the cure of souls was committed to a neighbouring minister, the
amount of stipend to be given was not to be less than £10, or more than
£50 per annum; and where a separate curate was appointed, the salary was
not to exceed £75 per annum, with permission to live in the glebe-house,
if he undertook to keep it in repair. In every parish where the cure of
souls was committed to a neighbouring minister, or a separate curate,
provision was to be made for the erection of suitable places of worship,
fit to accommodate the probable number of the different congregations.
These places of worship were to be built at a cost not exceeding £100,
or rented at a cost not exceeding £15 per annum. In making all these
provisions the archbishop of the province and the bishops of the
diocesses were to be associated with the ecclesiastical commissioners.
With respect to other parishes, if it should appear, after deducting
thirty per cent, from the existing tithe-composition and the payment
of that tax on ecclesiastical benefices, that the income of any parish
should exceed £300 per annum, the commissioners would be required
to report the circumstance on the voidance of the benefice to the
lord-lieutenant, who would be empowered to make any reduction he might
deem proper. The incomes, however, were in no case to be reduced below
£300 per annum. In cases of livings in the gift of the crown and the
bishops, he thought that it would be acknowledged there should be no
delay in carrying these provisions into effect; but power would be
given to indemnify the owners of lay advowsons, and to charge that
indemnification on the fund which would be created from the various
sources which he had mentioned, and which it was proposed to call "the
reserved fund;" a fund which would be applicable to pay the salaries of
the neighbouring ministers or separate curates--to pay all charges which
might accrue on the suspended parishes, and to pay for the erection
of places of public worship. These purposes having been satisfied,
the surplus fund accruing from year to year was to be applied by the
commissioners of national education in Ireland to the religious and
moral instruction of all classes of the people, without reference to
creeds or sects. The total number of parishes, he continued, that would
come under the operation of the bill, would be eight hundred and sixty.
He had computed the salaries of the curates at £65 each, and after the
existing interests were provided for, there would accrue to the reserved
fund, 47,898, to which there was to be added, on account of indemnified
patronage, £10,178, making the whole amount £58,076. Lord Morpeth added,
that in the report of the committee on public instruction, it was stated
that the Protestants of the church of England were on the increase.
Government was not inattentive to this; and it was proposed that where
it should appear to the ecclesiastical commissioners that the number of
the members of the established church in any of the suspended parishes
had increased to such a degree as to make the provisions of the bill
inadequate to the religious wants of the place, they would be required
to report the circumstance to the lord-lieutenant, and to submit a
proposition to meet the exigency. If the lord-lieutenant approved of
it, the report and the proposition were to be laid on the tables of both
houses of parliament; and the ecclesiastical commissioners, after the
expiration of six months, would be empowered to carry the proposition
into effect, if parliament should not otherwise direct.

The bill was brought in and read a first time. It contained two distinct
sets of provisions--some relating solely to the mode of collecting
tithe, and others which established a new distribution of the church
funds, so as to create a surplus to be applied to other purposes. Sir
Robert Peel gave notice on the 7th of July, that, on the motion for
committing the bill, he would move an instruction to the committee to
divide it into two bills, that he might have an opportunity of rejecting
altogether those parts of the bill which suppressed the Protestant
churches of eight hundred and sixty parishes, appropriating their
revenues to purposes not immediately in connection with the interests
of the established church, and of supporting those provisions in which
he could concur. The bill was read a second time _pro forma_ on the 13th
of July, and the motion to commit it was made on the 21st. Sir Robert
Peel moved the instruction of which he had given notice. Mr. Spring Rice
answered Sir Robert Peel. The debate was continued by adjournment on
the 22nd and 23rd of July, the leading speakers in support of the motion
being Sirs R. H. Inglis and J. Graham, Lord Stanley, and Messrs. Lefroy
and Jackson; while the ministerial side of the question was maintained
by Lords Howick, Morpeth, and J. Russell, and Messrs. Hume, Shiel, and
O'Connell. On a division ministers had a majority of three hundred and
nineteen against two hundred and eighty-two, a majority which secured
the success of the bill in the commons. It passed, in fact, without any
further opposition, the minority declining to discuss details which, in
their opinion, could not be amended except by omitting them. Ministers,
however, seem to have been convinced that Sir Robert Peel was correct
in stating that they would have no surplus, for they introduced a clause
providing that the consolidated fund should immediately begin to make
an annual payment of £50,000, for the purposes of general education in
Ireland, on the faith of the anticipated surplus, from which it was to
be repaid.

The bill passed the commons on the 12th of August, and the second
reading took place in the house of lords on the 20th. No opposition was
made to the second reading; but it was intimated that the opposition
intended in committee to strike out of the bill all the clauses
containing the new scheme of appropriation, and the machinery by which
it was to be worked. The house went into committee on the 24th of
August, and agreed to all the clauses forming the first part of the
measure, with the exception of the provisions for opening compositions
and for taking a new average, both of which were expunged. When the
house arrived at the first of the clauses which formed the new system of
appropriation, the Earl of Haddington moved that they should be omitted.
The bill was defended by the Marquises of Lansdowne, Glarincarde, and
Conyngham, and Lords Plunkett, Brougham, and Glenelg. Lord Melbourne
announced that if the motion were carried he would abandon the bill;
he would not be a party to sending it back to the house of commons in a
shape, both as to form and principle, which would compel that house
to reject it entirely. On a division, the motion to omit all the
appropriation clauses was carried by one hundred and thirty-eight
against forty-one. Ministers now abandoned the bill, being in such
a position, by the Catholic majority in the commons, as rendered
honourable retreat impossible. On the 29th of August the chancellor
of the exchequer brought in a bill empowering the government, on
application from the clergy, and on satisfactory proof being given that
the parties were not in a condition to pay, to suspend the claim for
the instalment which was due from the Irish clergy to the 5th of April,
1846. This bill passed both houses without opposition.


AGRICULTURAL DISTRESS.

{WILLIAM IV. 1835--1836}

On the 25th of May the Marquis of Chandos again brought forward the
subject of agricultural distress. The object of his present motion was
to give relief by diminishing the pressure of the local burdens to which
land was subject. The farmer, he said, severely felt the heavy pressure
of the maintenance of prisoners in gaol, and building and repairing
county bridges. He was likewise compelled to perform statute labour
on the highway. He thought all this should be thrown on the general
taxation of the country. He thought also that the duty on windows
in farm-houses, and on horses used in husbandry, should be taken off
entirely. Lord Althorp had made some reductions; but the benefit would
be increased by total relief from these burdens. He moved:--"That an
humble address be presented to his majesty, expressing the deep regret
this house feels at the continuing distressed state of the agricultural
interest of this country, to which the attention of parliament was
called by his majesty's most gracious speeches from the throne at the
commencement of the preceding and of the present session of parliament;
and humbly to represent the anxious desire of this house that the
attention of his majesty's government may be directed without delay to
this subject, with a view to the immediate removal of some portion
of those burdens to which the land is subject through the pressure of
general and local taxation." The motion was seconded by the Earl of
Darlington. Government opposed it on the ground that what was proposed
would give no relief, and that the suggestions at which it pointed
required deliberate consideration. The home-secretary moved an amendment
to the effect, that "the house would direct its early attention to the
recommendations of a committee which sat last session of parliament
upon the subject of county-rates, with a view to the utmost practical
alleviation of those burdens to which the land was subject through the
pressure of local taxation." Sir Robert Peel supported the amendment,
because the resolution pledged the house to objects which must excite
expectations on the part of the agriculturists which could not,
consistently with public credit, be fulfilled. The Marquis of Chandos,
however, pressed his motion to a division, which was lost by a majority
of two hundred and eleven against one hundred and fifty. In the course
of the debate on this subject, some members urged that all the evil had
arisen from the resumption of cash payments, and that it could only be
cured by some alteration of the currency. On the 1st of June, Mr. Cayley
moved the appointment of "a select committee, to inquire if there be
not effectual means within the reach of parliament to afford substantial
relief to the agriculture of the United Kingdom, and especially to
recommend to the attention of such committee the subject of a silver
standard, or conjoined standard of silver and gold." Sir Robert Peel
and Mr. P. Thompson opposed the motion; and Sir C. Burrell and Messrs.
Wodehouse, Bennett, and O'Connell supported it; but on a division it was
lost by a majority of two hundred and sixteen against one hundred and
twenty-six.


DISCUSSION REGARDING ORANGE SOCIETIES IN IRELAND.

During this session a series of parliamentary attacks were directed
against the Orange lodges. On the 6th of March, Mr. Shiel moved for
the production of addresses presented to the king from certain Orange
societies, and the answers which had been returned to them. These
papers were granted; but this did not prevent a discussion on the
subject, which was distinguished chiefly by the abuse which the Irish
opposition poured upon the Orangemen. The subject was again brought
forward on the 23rd of March by Mr. Finn, who moved that "a select
committee be appointed to inquire into the nature, character, extent,
and tendency of Orange lodges, associations, or societies in Ireland,
and to report their opinion thereon to the house." Mr. Maxwell, himself
an Orangeman, seconded this motion; he courted the fullest inquiry, with
a hope that the committee would be constituted in the most impartial
manner. The committee was appointed, and was still proceeding with its
inquiries when, on the 4th of August, Mr. Hume brought part of them
before the house. He had seen in newspapers portions of the evidence,
real or fictitious, taken before the committee, by which it appeared
that Orange lodges had been introduced into the army, and existed in
thirty or forty regiments of the line. These institutions were in direct
violation of general orders issued by the commander-in-chief in 1828 and
1829, which strongly reprobated the practice of holding Orange lodges in
regiments. The lodges, he said, had been formed under warrants granted
for that purpose by the Duke of Cumberland, who was the grand-master of
the Orange body, and a field-marshal. It was true the wan-ants had not
the name of his royal highness upon them; but he found it difficult to
imagine that he was ignorant of the existence of Orange lodges in the
army. Mr. Hume moved a string of eleven resolutions upon this subject.
Mr. Patten, the chairman of the committee to which the house had
referred the inquiry, complained of the manner in which the subject
had been introduced; it was a farce, he said, to appoint a committee to
inquire into a subject, if, when a portion of the evidence was printed,
and the inquiry was still pending, a member was to be permitted to bring
the subject forward in such a manner as must necessarily prejudge
the whole question, and at the same time attack the character of
individuals. He moved, as an amendment, "That a humble address be
presented to his majesty, praying that he will be graciously pleased to
direct his royal attention to the nature and extent of the Orange
lodges in the army, in contravention of the general orders issued by the
commander-in-chief in 1822 and 1829, which strongly prohibit the holding
of Orange lodges in regiments: and that his majesty will be graciously
pleased to direct an investigation to take place with respect to other
secret societies in the army." In the debate which followed, it was
generally admitted that the establishment of lodges in the army was
pregnant with mischief and indefensible; but it was maintained, that any
use which had been made in this way of warrants for creating lodges had
taken place without the knowledge and authority of the grand-master, or
the other superior officers of the association. From statements made
by the members for Sligo and Cavan, it appeared that noncommissioned
officers received warrants signed by those gentlemen and by the Duke of
Cumberland, none of whom knew a word about the matter. Colonel Perceval,
the member for Sligo, who held the office of grand-treasurer of the
grand-lodge, stated that ever since he had held that office it had been
his duty to sign warrants in blank, after they had been signed by the
grand-secretary, the member for Cavan. In this way, he said, numbers had
been sent in parcels to his royal highness, the Duke of Cumberland, who,
on seeing his signature and that of the grand-secretary, had appended
his own, with the understanding that the warrants were to be applied to
purposes conformable to the rules of the association. Lord John Russell
condemned this practice, and observed that he could not conceive that
the Duke of Cumberland would hesitate, when convinced of the use which
had been made of the blank warrants bearing Iris signature, to retire
from the association; and he could not conceive otherwise than that he
would feel it inconsistent with his duty as a prince of the blood, and
filling a high rank in the army, to continue any longer in the situation
which in this society he now filled. Lord John Russell suggested that
the resolution should not be adopted without giving notice to his
royal highness of the debates which had taken place on his conduct
as grand-master. This suggestion was adopted; and the discussion
was adjourned until the 11th of August. In the interval the Duke of
Cumberland addressed a letter to the chairman, in which he denied
having issued, or countenanced the issuing, of warrants to soldiers, and
stated, that when such a proposal had been made to him he had declined
it, on the ground that it was contrary to the orders and regulations of
the Horse-guards, and that if any warrants had been so used, they would
be annulled. His royal highness, however, did not intimate his intention
of abandoning the Orange institutions. When the discussion was resumed
on the 11th of August, Mr. Hume withdrew the 5th and 6th resolutions,
referring to the general interference of Orange societies in political
matters, thus confining the question to their existence in the army. The
only disputed matter, indeed, was the last resolution, which stated
that the Duke of Cumberland "had signed warrants in his capacity of
grand-master of the grand Orange lodge of Ireland, which warrants have
been issued for constituting Orange lodges in the army." Lord John
Russell said, that he did not think the letter of the Duke of Cumberland
to the chairman of the committee was all that was required of his royal
highness; but he did not wish to agree to the resolution stating
that his royal highness, in contravention of an order issued from the
Horse-guards, had signed warrants, which were issued for constituting
Orange lodges in the army. He wished such a clause to be omitted; and he
thought the resolution wrould then satisfy both sides of the house. The
resolution, thus modified, was carried by one hundred and eighty-three
to forty; and the other resolutions were agreed to without a division.


THE VOTE BY BALLOT, ETC.

During this session, as usual after a general election, the house had
to deal with a considerable number of election petitions. Among others
petitions were presented from Great Yarmouth, complaining that bribery
had been practised at the election for that borough; these petitions
were referred to a committee. The fact of these petitions being
presented, encouraged Mr. Grote to make his annual motion in favour of
vote by ballot. On the 2nd of June he proposed this resolution:--"That
it is the opinion of this house that the votes at elections for members
of parliament should be taken by way of secret ballot." This motion,
which was supported on the same grounds which had been urged to the
house on former occasions, was seconded by Sir William Molesworth. Mr.
Gisborne met it by moving the previous question. Lords Howick, Stanley,
and Russell, and Sir Robert Peel opposed the motion. Sir Robert Peel
expressed his surprise that government, in opposing the motion, should
allow it to be set aside by the previous question, instead of meeting
it with a direct negative; and Lord John Russell explained that
the amendment of the previous question had been moved without any
arrangement with him; if it were withdrawn, he was ready to meet it
with a direct negative. After some demur, Mr. Gisborne withdrew his
amendment; and the motion was directly negatived by three hundred and
seventeen votes against one hundred and forty-four.


THE BUDGET.

The budget was brought forward by the chancellor of the exchequer on the
14th of August. He calculated the income of the country for the ensuing
year, ending in July, 1836, at £45,500,000, and the expenditure at
£44,715,000, leaving a surplus of £835,000. He regretted, however, to
add that this surplus, calculated on the ordinary expenditure of the
country, would be found to crumble away before the further statement
which it was his duty to make. The interest due to the slave-owners, he
said, was to be provided for from the 1st of August, 1834. The maximum
of the charge to which the country might be liable from that time was
£730,000; and supposing that the whole balance of the loan were to be
paid up within three months on discount, and that the permanent interest
on the whole amount of the stock were at once incurred, this would
subject us to a further charge of £250.935, making the total charge
for the present year, on account of the West Indian loan, nearly £1000.
Against this, as a set off, there was a surplus of £885,000; but the
probability was that the amount instead of being £1,000,000 would not
exceed a sum between £600,000 and £700,000, so that the actual surplus
which might be expected would be from £150,000 to £200,000. The
chancellor of the exchequer said, in continuation, that though the
country was in a prosperous condition, he could not under existing
circumstances be expected to make any great reduction in taxation. There
were two or three taxes, however, which he thought might be reduced, and
he proposed to reduce the duty on licences, which would cause a loss to
the revenue of about £40,000; and on flint-glass, on which there might
be a loss of about £70,000. He also proposed to relieve Ireland from the
stamp-duty on awards, the loss on which would not exceed £500 a year.
The resolutions of the chancellor of the exchequer were agreed to
without a division.


DISCUSSIONS REGARDING CANADA.

During this session, the affairs of Lower Canada were brought before
parliament. That colony was still distracted by dissensions; the
French, or democratic party, which had gained a majority in the house of
assembly, still insisting on all their pretensions, and declaring their
determination to control both the legislative council and the governor,
who represented the mother country. Their cause was advocated in the
British parliament by Mr. Roebuck, who, on the 9th of March presented a
petition from certain members of the legislative bodies of the province,
setting forth their alleged grievances. In supporting his motion, Mr.
Roebuck held out threats, that, if the demands urged in the petition
were not granted, there would be a rebellion. Lower Canada, he said,
would inevitably follow the example of the United States. Mr. Spring
Rice and Lord Stanley deprecated the use of such language as Mr. Roebuck
had adopted; language like this made matters only worse. So far back as
1828, a committee had been appointed to examine into the complaints
of the Canadians. Another committee was subsequently appointed, which
committee had come to this general resolution:--"That the most earnest
desire has existed on the part of the home government to carry into
effect the suggestions of the committee of 1823; that the endeavours of
the government to the ends recommended have been unremitting, and guided
by the desire, in all cases, to promote the interests of the colonies;
and that in several important particulars, their endeavours had
been entirely successful." Mr. Roebuck himself was a member of this
committee, and was, therefore, a party to this report; but in the face
of it he now blamed the government. On the other hand, petitions were
presented to the commons on the 16th of March, and to the lords on
the 24th of March, deprecating the violence of the democratic party in
Canada. In presenting the petition to the house of lords, the Earl of
Aberdeen stated that it was signed by 11,000 persons, inhabitants of
Montreal and its vicinity, who represented a numerous and respectable
body in that country of not less than 100,000 persons.


PROROGATION OF PARLIAMENT.

Parliament was prorogued on the 10th of September. In his closing speech
his majesty alluded to the civil contest still raging in the northern
provinces of Spain; and intimated that he had concluded fresh
conventions with Denmark, Sardinia, and Sweden, calculated to prevent
the traffic in African slaves.


STATE OF THE CONTINENT.

During this year Portugal exhibited a more peaceful and prosperous
picture than it had done for some time, although it presented likewise
the contests and intrigues of political parties for power and place. The
Cortes met on the 2nd of January, and continued in deliberation till
the 22nd of April. The principal objects of their attention were the
financial state of the country, and the claims for indemnification which
had been put forward by those who had suffered under the domination of
Don Miguel, or who had sustained loss in consequence of the measures
which had now terminated in the establishment of the constitutional
system. The bill, which received the sanction of the Cortes, provided
that where injuries had been directly caused by individuals, or at the
instigation of any individual, such persons were liable for the whole
amount, and should be called upon to make it good. On the other hand,
all unavoidable damages done in order to defend or attack towns, as well
as injuries done by the usurper's government, were to be made good by
the nation at large. In the course of this year, Prince Augustus of
Leuchtenberg, the husband of the young queen, arrived in Portugal; but
after he had been there little more than a month, he died from exposure
to cold in taking exercise. The chambers justly considered the
constitutional system to be greatly dependent upon a direct succession
to the constitutional throne, and they, therefore, presented
addresses to her majesty, praying her to enter into a new marriage as
soon as possible. She replied that she was a queen and a Portuguese, and
the chamber might be assured that she would make every sacrifice for the
public interest which was not inconsistent with her dignity. Before the
end of the year, indeed, the queen's second marriage was arranged, the
bridegroom being the nephew of the reigning Duke of Saxe Coburg, and of
the King of the Belgians. In Spain all was confusion and revolt. The
war between Don Carlos and the queen, or rather the Spanish nation,
was still continued, and the year closed while they were yet in arms.
Towards the latter part of the year an army of 6000 men crossed the
Spanish frontier to assist in the struggle, a convention having been
signed between Spain and Portugal to that end: these troops, however,
bore no part in the events of the year. In France an attempt was made
to assassinate the king, by means of what has been denominated "the
infernal machine." On the second day of the great political festival in
honour of the three days of July, 1830, as his majesty was riding
along the Boulevard du Temple, surrounded by the crowded citizens,
and attended by his civil and military servants, an explosion like a
discharge of musketry took place from the window of an adjoining house.
The effect was terrific. Several officer's of rank were killed on the
spot, as well as some grenadiers of the national guard of Paris, besides
mere lookers on, while many were severely wounded. The horse on which
the king rode was wounded, but he himself escaped unhurt. The assassin
was captured, and he turned out to be a Corsican, of the name of
Fieschi, who had been a noted vagabond for many years. The questions in
dispute between Belgium and Holland remained in the same unsettled state
in which the preceding year had left them. In Belgium the formation of
Sir Robert Peel's ministry excited alarm, lest the policy of the great
powers should now be less favourable to that country, and in particular
lest Britain should refuse to interfere to compel the Germanic
confederation to concede to the demands of the Belgians on the duchy of
Luxembourg. Communications from the English ministry, however, allayed
these fears; and finally they were relieved from them altogether by the
return of the Whigs to office. In the autumn of this year the Emperor of
Russia met the King of Prussia at Kalisah, and the Emperor of Austria at
Toplitz; but neither of these meetings seemed to have been brought about
for the purposes of political deliberation. In Greece, on the 10th of
June, King Otho having come of age, assumed the reins of government, and
the regency deposited its functions in his hands. The changes which took
place gave great umbrage to the Greeks, who were already displeased at
seeing so many offices in the hands of foreigners. Their displeasure was
increased at finding there was no intention of sending away the Bavarian
military. Turkey, during the present year, remained unchanged in her
relations to the great European powers. On her western frontier she
was occupied in putting down an insurrection which had broken out in
Albania. The Porte was likewise under the necessity of using its arms
against some tribes which had rebelled in Kurdistan. These disturbances
saved the Pacha of Egypt from any attack by the Porte in his new Syrian
acquisitions. On his part he showed no disposition to proceed further
against his sovereign; he occupying himself with completing the
subjugation of Syria, and attempting to extend his conquests in Arabia,
which attempt was unsuccessful.


CHAPTER XLVI.

{WILLIAM IV. 1836--1837}

     _Meeting of Parliament..... The Question of Orange
     Lodges..... Bill to Reform the Irish Municipal
     Corporations..... Irish Tithe Bill..... Commutation of
     Tithes in England..... Bill for Registration of Births,
     Deaths, and Marriages, &c...... Bill to alter the Revenues
     and Territory of the different Sees..... Bill to abolish the
     secular Jurisdiction of Bishops, &c...... Bill to amend the
     English Municipal Corporation Act..... Bill to Allow Felons
     Counsel to Address the Jury, &c...... Abolition of
     Imprisonment for Debt, &c...... Election  Committees.....
     New Houses  of Parliament..... Motion for the Reduction  of
     Taxation  on behalf of the Agriculturists..... The Budget,
     &c...... Discussions on the Colonies and our Foreign
     Relations..... Prorogation of Parliament..... The Affairs
     of Ireland..... State of the Continent_


MEETING OF PARLIAMENT.

{A.D. 1836}

Parliament reassembled on the 14th of February. In his speech his
majesty alluded to disputes between France and the United States, which
he was endeavouring to allay; and to the civil contests in the northern
province of Spain, for the termination of which he had also adopted
measures which he hoped would succeed. His majesty also alluded to
a treaty which he had concluded with the Queen of Spain for the
suppression of the slave-trade. He expressed his regret that the
agricultural interests in England still suffered, and recommended
parliament to institute inquiry, with the view of ascertaining whether
there were any measures which could be adopted for its alleviation. He
then referred to the various measures affecting the united church of
England and Ireland, and the state of the poor of Ireland. In the lords
the address was moved by the Duke of Leinster, and seconded by the Earl
of Burlington. The only part of it which gave rise to a discussion was
a passage which repeated the hope, expressed in the speech from the
throne, that the Irish municipal corporations would be subjected to a
process of change, "founded upon the same principles as those of the
acts which had already passed for England and Scotland." These words
raised a question of importance between the contending parties, for, as
the municipal acts of England and Scotland established a £5 franchise in
one country, and a £10 franchise in the other, to establish in Ireland
a system of municipal government founded on a similar basis, was to
transfer to the Papists that monopoly of municipal authority hitherto
enjoyed by the Protestants. The Duke of Wellington objected to the
house being required, in voting the address, to pledge itself to the
principles of any measure before the measure itself had come regularly
before the house. He moved to substitute the following amendment:--"We
shall proceed without delay to the consideration of any defects or evils
that may have been shown to exist in these institutions, for the purpose
of applying such remedies as may obviate all just causes of complaint,
and insure the impartial administration of justice." Several peers
supported this amendment, and the defeat of government was inevitable;
but, on seeing this, the Marquis of Lansdowne intimated that ministers
conceded the point as one of no particular moment, and the address was
then agreed to. In the commons, however, government was stronger, and,
therefore, did not exhibit the same spirit of concession. Sir Robert
Peel moved the same amendment which the Duke of Wellington had moved in
the lords. Lord John Russell defended the clause in the address. Lord
Stanley supported the amendment. Lords Howick and Palmerston, and Mr.
O'Connell spoke in favour of the address. Mr. O'Connell gave notice,
that if Ireland got less than had been granted to England and Scotland,
the cry of repeal would immediately be resumed. With an air of
self-importance he cautioned the house to beware; if they excited that
cry again, it would be at their peril. On a division the address was
carried by a majority of two hundred and eighty-four against two hundred
and forty-three.


THE QUESTION OF ORANGE LODGES.

On the reassembling of parliament, Mr. O'Connell and his friends lost no
time in returning to the attack made last session on Orange lodges. On
the 21st of February Mr. Finn moved this resolution:--"That Orangeism
has been productive of the most baneful effects upon the character and
administration of public justice in Ireland; that its presence in the
constabulary and peace preservation force and yeomanry corps of that
country has led individual members, as well as large bodies of the above
description of force, to the gross neglect and violation of their public
duty, and to open, daring, and lawless resistance to the authority of
the magistracy and of the executive government, on various occasions;
that the systematic and surreptitious introduction of Orangeism into
every branch of the military service, in almost every part of the
empire, in direct violation of orders issued in 1822 and 1829 by the
commander-in-chief of his majesty's forces, and the absolute power and
control vested by its governing body, the grand Orange lodge of England
and Ireland, in his royal highness the Duke of Cumberland, together with
the rank, station, influence, and numbers of that formidable and secret
conspiracy, are well calculated to excite serious apprehensions in
all his majesty's loyal subjects, and imperatively call for the most
energetic expression on the part of the representatives of the people
of this empire, to secure the safe, peaceable, legal, and rightful
succession to the throne of these realms." In the speech with which Mr.
Finn introduced this resolution, he treated the Orange system as one of
deadly hostility to the great mass of the population, and asserted
that it was established by the report of the secret committee, that the
Orange society set all law, justice, and authority at defiance. Mr. E.
Buller, who seconded the resolution, reiterated these sentiments. As
notice had been given for the 23rd of February by Colonel Verner, to
extend the inquiry to other existing societies in Ireland, and as Mr.
Hume was to bring forward certain resolutions directed to the same
object on that day, the house adjourned the further consideration of
the motion to that day. On the 23rd of February Mr. Hume entered at
considerable length into the evidence which had been given before the
select committee of the previous session, which included documents laid
before it by the office-bearers of the Orange association and private
correspondence. Most of the evidence, it would appear, had indeed been
derived from the officers of the institution themselves, which was by no
means a proof of guilt. Nevertheless, Mr. Hume contrived to make out a
case against the association from such evidence; and when he had laid
it before the house, he moved this condemnatory resolution:--"That this
house, taking into consideration the evidence given before the select
committee appointed to inquire into the nature, extent, character, and
tendency of Orange lodges, associations, or societies in Ireland, and of
Orange institutions in Great Britain and the colonies; and seeing that
the existence of Orange societies is highly detrimental to the peace
of the community, by exciting discord among the several classes of his
majesty's subjects; and seeing that it is highly injurious to the due
administration of justice that any judge, sheriff, magistrate, juryman,
or any other person employed in maintaining the peace of the country,
should be bound by any secret obligation to, or be in any combination
with, any association unknown to the laws, and founded on principles of
religious exclusion, that even if justice were impartially administered
under such circumstances, which is in itself impossible, yet any
connection with such societies would create suspicions and jealousies
detrimental to the peace and good government of this country: that
Orange societies, and all other political societies which have secret
forms of initiation and secret signs, and are bound together by any
religious ceremonies, are particularly deserving of the severest
reprobation of the house, and should no longer be permitted to
continue;--an humble address be presented to his majesty, that his
majesty will be graciously pleased to direct measures to be taken
to remove from the public service, at home and abroad, every judge,
privy-councillor, lord-lieutenant, _custos rotulorum_, magistrate,
militia officer, inspector, chief-constable of the constabulary and
peace preservation force, every officer of police in Ireland, and
every functionary employed in the administration of justice, and in
maintaining the peace of the country, who shall attend the meeting of
any Orange lodge, of any riband lodge, or of any other political club,
institution, or association, whenever or wherever assembled, having
secret forms of initiation, and being bound together by any religious
ceremony, and with secret signs, and passwords, for recognition of
members of such bodies, and who shall not withdraw from such societies
or associations, on or before the expiration of one month after the
publication of any proclamation which his majesty may be pleased to
direct to be issued hereupon, forbidding their continuing to be members
of such Orange lodges, societies, and associations." This motion was
supported by Sir William Moles-worth, who endeavoured to prove that
the societies against which it was directed had already been declared
illegal; a position which should have simply led to an address to the
crown to cause the statutes to be enforced. Lord John Russell agreed
that it was desirable to suppress these institutions, and all similar
societies; but he intimated that government could not approve of some
of the modes of doing so which were now proposed. He thought that the
effect of these societies, however good their motives might be, were
injurious: by their existence, whether founded upon religion or not,
a distinction was made between them and some other part of the king's
subjects, who formed! themselves into counter societies, with other
names and distinctions; and thus a perpetual and ever-recurring source
of disunion, disaffection, quarrels, and bloodshed was created. At the
same time, though it might be clear that it was desirable to get rid of
this and all other societies of the like nature, whether known as Orange
or Riband societies, or by any other name, it was by no means so clear
how that object was to be attained. The report of last year by the
committee on Orange lodges, stated that the existing statutes, if put in
execution, would be adequate for their suppression, as well as that of
all other societies of the like nature. He had discussed this question
with the attorney and solicitor-general; and they declared that,
without looking most carefully into the subject, they could not venture
absolutely to pronounce an opinion as to their legality or illegality.
The government, therefore, were of opinion that if the several penal
statutes already in force did not contain clear enactments against this
offence, it was not proper for them to seek some meaning in the law,
which would be construed by others into a straining of the provisions of
the law, and make it doubtful whether they had not forced the meaning
of an enactment, in order to procure a condemnation of the societies in
question. Even if they could have discovered that, although the Orange
societies had contrived to evade the law in some points, they had yet
contravened it in others, and could have obtained a conviction against
them, he thought it would be mischievous to the general liberty of the
subject to attempt giving a strained interpretation. In 1822, it was
held by Lord Gifford and other eminent lawyers, that Orange societies
were not held to come within the meaning of the law; and, therefore,
if they came at present within the terms of any act, it must be in
consequence of some recent change in their constitution. He was,
therefore, averse to putting the question on such narrow grounds.
Government also had no thought of proposing any new law against them;
for, although by such a proceeding the secret signs and distinctive
marks presently in use might be made to disappear, they might be
succeeded by some other evasion of the law. He thought, also, that a
general address to the crown affecting all judges, without entering
into the case of each individual, would be scarcely consistent with the
independence of the bench. As to removing every magistrate and person in
office belonging to the Orange societies--if they should be removed at
once by an address of this kind--without any previous declaration either
from the house of commons or the crown, they would conceive such a
stigma affixed to them, that they would still remain banded together
from a spirit of resentment, and would regard the measure only as an
unfair and biassed transaction. His colleagues and himself thought that
it would be better to adopt this course:--that where a person applied
for any official situation of trust and responsibility under the crown,
inquiry should be made whether he were an Orangeman, and if he meant to
continue in that society, that his appointment should not take place. It
was not only convenient to adopt measures of discouragement in respect
to those societies, but he was prepared to add to these discouragements
that of an address to his majesty by this house. In conclusion, his
lordship moved:--"That an humble address be presented to his majesty,
praying that his majesty would be graciously pleased to take such
measures as to his majesty seemed advisable for the effectual
discouragement of Orange lodges, and generally all political societies
excluding persons of different faith, using signs and symbols, and
acting by associated branches." The Orange societies of Ireland were
defended by Mr. Maxwell. They refused, he said, to be tried by the
report of the committee, for its proceedings had been partial and
biassed, and the investigation had not been complete. Lord Stanley urged
the omission of the specific mention of Orange lodges in the address,
inasmuch as they were only part of the secret societies which existed
in Ireland. Lord John Russell, however, insisted on retaining the words,
denying that they implied any stigma; there was no opinion pronounced
as to the legality of these societies, but merely that they, as well as
other secret societies, should meet the disapprobation of the crown.
His motion was agreed to without a division; and the address having been
presented to the king, his majesty, on the 25th of February, returned
this answer:--"I willingly assent to the prayer of the address of my
faithful commons, that I Would be pleased to take such measures as may
seem to me advisable for the effectual discouragement of Orange lodges,
and generally of all political societies, excluding persons of a
different religious faith, using secret signs and symbols, and acting by
means of associated branches. It is my firm intention to discourage
all such societies in my dominions, and I rely with confidence on the
fidelity of my loyal subjects to support me in this determination." The
home-secretary transmitted a copy of the address and the king's answer
to the Duke of Cumberland, as the official head of the Orange societies,
and his royal highness replied, that before receiving the communication,
he had recommended the dissolution of the Orange institutions
in Ireland. The Orange societies immediately acquiesced in this
recommendation, and from that time they were professedly dissolved; but
it was soon discovered that the law and will of king and commons were
only evaded, and that Orange lodges were as numerous as ever. The
conduct of O'Connell and his Irish adherents in this discussion was as
faithless as in their professions of the voluntary principle. They knew
well that ribandism was far more extensively prevalent in Ireland than
orangeism, and that, whatever might be the character of the latter, the
objects and spirit of the former were utterly atrocious. The riband-men
were banded for purposes subversive of all law and order--of all
liberty, civil and religious--and they were utterly reckless as to the
means by which they promoted their ends. Assassination and incendiarism
were the common instruments of this diabolical association of fanaticism
and bigotry. Yet O'Connell and his confederates glossed over the evils
of this system, or denied their existence, while he and they pretended
zeal for public justice and liberty in the destruction of the Orange
confederation. The true policy would have been the suppression of all
secret political societies.


BILL TO REFORM THE IRISH MUNICIPAL CORPORATIONS.

A commission had been appointed to inquire into the state of the
corporations in Ireland, and the royal speech had intimated that the
subject would be brought forward during this session. Acting upon this
report and intimation, Mr. O'Loghlen, attorney-general for Ireland,
introduced a bill for the better regulation of Irish municipal
corporations. In doing so he entered into many details to show the
limited and exclusive nature of the corporations, and the abuses to
which this had led. He proposed to remedy the abuses which had crept
into the system, by a bill similar to those already adopted for England
and Scotland. In regard to the seven largest towns--Dublin, Cork,
Limerick, Kilkenny, Belfast, Galway, and Water-ford--it was proposed
that every inhabitant possessing the £10 franchise under the provisions
of the Irish reform act, should be entitled to vote in the election of
municipal offices. As regarded all boroughs containing a population
of less than 20,000 inhabitants, it was farther proposed that every
occupier of a £5 house should be entitled to vote in the election of
municipal officers. With regard to councillors, the qualification in the
seven large boroughs was to consist in having property worth £1000, and
in the other towns, property worth £5000. In the seven large boroughs,
and likewise in Londonderry, Sligo, Dungannon, and Drogheda, where
the population exceeded 15,000, there would be a division of wards.
Aldermen, likewise, were to be elected by the inhabitants, and were to
consist ©f the councillors who had the greatest number of votes at the
election. One half of the councillors and aldermen were to retire every
three years; and in the seven large boroughs, the council was to
have the power of electing sheriffs, subject to the approval of the
lord-lieutenant. The bill further declared that a commission of the
peace might be granted in any large borough if the lord-lieutenant
thought fit, and in other towns the mayor for the time being would be
the magistrate of the borough. It was likewise intended to preserve to
the inhabitants of the Irish corporate towns the right of proceeding
summarily by petition in cases of misapplication of public funds,
instead of leaving them to the ordinary tedious process of the law,
and to retain the courts in the nature of courts of conscience, and the
right of their suitors to proceed by attachment. It was further proposed
that government should have the power of obliging the council, if either
or both the persons first chosen were not approved of, to proceed to
the election of some other persons, and not, as in the case of Dublin,
re-elect the same person. All the other provisions were similar to those
comprised in the English bill. The bill was allowed to be read a second
time on the 29th of February without opposition; but Sir Robert Peel
took occasion to state the views taken of this particular mode of
reforming Irish corporations by himself and the party to which he
adhered. He avowed that it was not possible to defend the corporation
system which existed in Ireland; but he contended that the bill would
not be a remedy for the evils. Although the views of the Conservatives,
as explained by Sir Robert Peel, did not allow them to oppose the second
reading of the bill, yet when the motion was made that the house should
go into committee, Lord Francis Egerton moved that the committee should
be empowered to make provision for the abolition of corporations in
Ireland, and for such arrangements as might be necessary on their
abolition, for securing the efficient and impartial administration
of justice, and the peace and good government of cities and towns in
Ireland. His lordship said, that in substituting abolition for the
process of restoration proposed by ministers, he was not withholding
from Ireland any of the benefits intended to be conferred on the other
parts of the kingdom by their new municipal institutions; and lie argued
generally that there was much in the situation of that country, and in
the state of its society, which distinguished it from England and other
nations, and which might render it, in certain cases, an unfit recipient
for institutions not essential in themselves to good government, and
only valuable as being machinery for that purpose. His motion was
seconded by Mr. Lefroy. The bill was defended by Lords John Russell,
Morpeth, and Hawick, Mr. O'Connell, and other members; and was attacked
by Lord Stanley, Mr. Sergeant Jackson, and Sirs Henry Hardinge and
James Graham. Mr. O'Connell insisted that Ireland must have justice; and
she would not have it if she was not treated as England and Scotland
had been treated. Lord Stanley said, that he felt some hesitation in
receiving Mr. O'Connell as the plenipotentiary of the people of Ireland
to treat with the British parliament. Lord John Russell closed the
debate on Lord Francis Egerton's motion. On a division the motion was
lost by a majority of three hundred and seven against two hundred
and forty-three. In the committee none of the provisions of the bill
underwent any important alteration, except the allowing of sheriff's in
the large boroughs to be chosen by the town-councils. Ministers listened
to the objections urged against this, and retained the nomination of
these officers in the power of the crown. The bill was finally passed
on the 28th of March, after another debate, by a majority of two hundred
and sixty to one hundred and ninety-nine.

A harder battle was, however, to be fought in the lords. On the second
reading Lord Lyndhurst expressed his willingness to go into committee,
but not with the intention of preserving the bill in all its present
features. He did not deny that evils existed in the Irish corporations,
but he wished to see some scheme adopted which would not only remove
those evils, but prevent the recurrence of others of a similar kind. The
present bill, however, was a bill to extend the system of exclusion, and
to aggravate all the violations to which justice was now exposed. The
town-councils would not consist of persons anxious for the preservation
of peace and the security of property, but would be filled with men
of the anti-church and Catholic party, advocates of the repeal of
the union, and of the separation of British and Irish interests.
His lordship argued that the five-pound qualification would increase
agitation, would aggrandise radical interests. If excitement, he said,
prevailed in Ireland at the election of members of parliament, how far
more prevalent would be the excitement which would attend the elections
of this bill. His lordship looked also, with alarm, at the formidable
power which the priesthood would gain by this bill; and the
town-councils, he contended, would be confined to a party of
inflammatory demagogues: justice itself would be poisoned at its source,
and corporate property devoted to anything but its legitimate purposes.
He concluded by sketching a plan similar to that which had been proposed
in the commons by Sir Robert Peel, and which he, or some of those with
whom he acted, would propose should be inserted in the bill in place
of the clauses containing the new corporations. The house went into
committee on the 26th of April, when Lord Fitzgerald moved, as had been
done in the commons, "That it be an instruction to the committee to
make provision for the abolition of such corporations, and for such
arrangements as may be necessary on their abolition for securing the
efficient and impartial administration of justice, and the peace and
good government of cities and towns in Ireland." The lord-chancellor and
Lords Holland and Melbourne spoke against this motion; and Lords Abinger
and Lyndhurst supported it.. The motion was carried by a majority of
two hundred and three against one hundred and nineteen. The committee
proceeded on the 9th of May, and the first clause, repealing "all acts,
charters, and customs inconsistent with this act," was agreed to; and
the existing corporations were thus abolished. Lord Lyndhurst moved
certain amendments on the second clause, which reserved the rights of
freemen; and after some debate these were carried by a majority of one
hundred and seven against fifty-three. Another debate and division took
place on the 22nd clause, which enacted that the boroughs should have
a mayor, and a certain number of councillors and aldermen, as they were
arranged in the schedules. This was struck out. And on the third reading
of the bill, the Duke of Richmond proposed limiting the bill to seven
of the largest towns. This motion, it was said, was not made by any
arrangement or communication with the ministry. Government had never
intended to preclude itself from inquiring to what towns corporate
powers should be extended. What they were most anxious to preserve
was, the corporation principle in Ireland. If that were maintained, the
Marquis of Lansdowne said, he should not argue that corporations ought
to be continued in the small towns: if any difference was to be made,
it ought to be in favour of the large towns, because it was there that
corporations must be useful if they were good for anything. The motion,
however, was negatived; and the bill, having thus been brought into the
form which the minority in the lower house had endeavoured to give it,
was sent down on the 19th of May to the commons.

In moving that the lords' amendments should be printed, Lord John
Russell stated that, however willing he might be to come to some
arrangement in regard to the constitution of the franchise, he would
never consent to deprive Ireland of municipal government altogether,
thereby stigmatising and degrading its people. The Radicals were very
violent, boldly maintaining that there required an "organic change" in
the house of lords. The amendments were moved, by Lord John Russell, to
be taken into consideration on the 9th of June. The bill, he said, as
amended, contained little or nothing of the bill which had been sent up
to the lords. Out of one hundred and forty clauses, one hundred and
six had been in substance omitted, while eighteen others had been
introduced. A bill had been put up for regulating and renewing
corporations in Ireland on the same conditions as in England and
Scotland; they had received back a bill which abolished them entirely,
but which preserved to many of the persons who held office in these
bodies all the power and profit of their situations. In order to meet
the concurrence of the lords, however, instead of abolishing the whole
of the corporations, it was proposed that the larger towns, originally
divided between schedules A and B should be placed in one, and that all
the clauses for the government of corporate towns should be restored
to the bill, with the view of applying them to these particular towns.
These towns would be Dublin, Belfast, Cork, Gal way, Kilkenny, Limerick,
Waterford, Clonmel, Drogheda, Londonderry, Sligo, and Carrickfergus. In
regard to the other towns, he would not give them corporations; but at
the same time he would not leave them subject to the provisions of the
lords' bill. He proposed rather, that the provisions of the act of 1828
should be applied immediately to twenty-two of the towns in schedule
C, and that so soon as the five-pound householders in these towns
had chosen commissioners, the corporate property, and the right of
appointing to the necessary offices should vest in the commissioners.
There would be commissioners elected by the inhabitants, instead of
being appointed by the lord-lieutenant. In regard to the remaining
boroughs of schedule C, as they possessed but little property, he would
neither subject them to the expense of a corporation, nor compel them to
elect commissioners under the act of 1828; but would leave it to them
to have recourse to the latter, if they thought fit. The lords had made
other alterations in other clauses of the bill, regarding the granting
of quarter-sessions, &c.; but these alterations did not impair the
spirit of the original bill, and therefore he would not quarrel with
them. The difference which still remained between them was one of
principle--should there be municipal governments or not? He thought
that municipal government, placed on a popular basis, and under popular
control, was excellent and useful in itself; and that in Ireland it
would tend to public tranquillity, by assuaging jealousies, and removing
causes of discontent. His lordship concluded by moving the rejection
of the amendment of the lords on the fourth clause, which implied the
continuance of corporations, and which the peers had therefore expunged.
This motion led to another debate of two days' duration, in which all
the topics previously discussed were again brought forward; superadded
to which were many reflections on the house of lords, and on Lord
Lyndhurst in particular. On a division, the motion to reject the
amendment on the lords was carried by three hundred and twenty-four
against one hundred and twenty-eight; and on the 13th and 14th of June,
the bill was brought back to the shape proposed by ministers in so far
as regarded corporations being limited to the twelve towns mentioned by
Lord John Russell. Subsequently, a committee was appointed to draw up
the reasons of the house for not agreeing to the amendment of the peers;
and the amended bill was delivered to the lords at a conference on the
17th of June. On the 27th, Lord Melbourne moved that the amendments
of the commons should be agreed to, which motion was met by a direct
negative by Lord Lyndhurst. The motion was lost by a majority of two
hundred and twenty against one hundred and twenty-one; and the bill
was then sent back to the commons, with the reasons of the lords for
adhering to their own amendments. Finally, on the 30th of June, Lord
John Russell moved, and the house agreed, that the amendment should be
taken into consideration that day three months, and thus the bill was
dropped.


THE IRISH TITHE-BILL.

{WILLIAM IV. 1836--1837}

Another great party measure was the Irish tithe-bill. Ministers
reintroduced this measure on the 25th of April. It was brought forward
by Lord Morpeth, the Irish secretary, who moved this resolution:--"That
it is expedient to commute the composition of tithes in Ireland into a
rent-charge, payable by the owners of the estate, and to make further
provisions for the better regulation of ecclesiastical dues and
revenues." In opening the scheme which ministers intended to
incorporate in their bill, Lord Morpeth announced that the principle of
appropriation would still be declared and acted on. The bill, he said,
would follow the uniform precedent of three previous bills, and
he believed of four successive administrations, in converting the
tithe-composition into a rent-charge, payable by the owners of the first
estate of inheritance, as it was termed. The bill would also preserve
those terms of commutation which, in the bill of last year, had been
adopted by both houses of parliament, by conferring a deduction
of thirty per cent, upon those subject to the payment of the
tithe-composition. He would not propose any contribution from the
national funds towards payment of the arrears of former years; and, on
the other hand, he would abandon all claims for repayment of the sums
which had been advanced to tithe-owners under the million act, and
which amounted to £637,000. Ministers proposed, he said, to entrust
the collection of rent-charges to the board of woods and forests for a
period of seven years, and thereafter until parliament should otherwise
determine. The bill would also contain the provisions for allowing a
revaluation of the present tithe-composition in the cases and under
the limitations specified in the bill of last year. These were the
arrangements to be enacted in regard to existing incumbents. As regarded
the future regulation of the church revenues, government felt that they
could not abandon those declarations and principles with which they
entered upon office; that they could not shake off the engagement under
which they conceived themselves to stand, of doing justice to the Irish
nation; and the terms of that virtual and most honourable compact they
conceived to be that if, in the future disposition of the revenues of
the Irish church, something superfluous for its legitimate and becoming
uses should arise, they should, after the satisfaction of all existing
interests, apply that superfluity to the religious and moral education
of the people. He felt that he might consider the principle as
established and conceded, that parliament had a right to deal with the
revenues of the church, if it should think them superfluous for church
purposes; so long as the resolution adopted by the present parliament
stood upon their books unrepealed, he had a right to think that that
principle was admitted. It was now proposed by government, he continued,
that on any future vacancy of a benefice, providing, as before,
compensation for the patronage of private individuals in possession
of the avowson, the lord-lieutenant should direct the board of
ecclesiastical commissioners, now sitting in Dublin, to submit to
the privy-council a report containing all particulars concerning such
benefice; and a committee of the privy-council would be established with
a view to this especial purpose, consisting exclusively of members of
the established church, and named by his majesty. Power would be given
to this committee to alter the boundaries of vacant benefices, subject
to such modifications as subsequent vacancies of contiguous benefices
might render advisable to carry into effect. Since the year 1718
the lord-lieutenant and the privy-council had united two hundred and
eighty-nine parishes, consisting of the union of two or more parishes.
The committee, after fixing the boundaries, were to apportion such
income as they might think proper relative to the duties of the future
incumbents, but within certain limitations. Where the number of the
members of the established church varied from 500 to 1000, the income
would be £300; and where the number varied from 1000 to 3000, the income
would be £400. Where the number of Protestants amounted to 3000 and
upwards, the income would be raised to £500; but wherever the number
was below 50, it was proposed to assign to the incumbent an income not
exceeding £100. After thus providing for the Protestant establishment,
his lordship said that there would still be a considerable surplus of
ecclesiastical revenue. The tithes payable to the clergy at present
were £511,000, which, remitting thirty per cent, left a rent-charge of
£353,000. The ministers' money might be stated at £10,000, without the
expenses of collection; the private bounty fund, £5000; glebe-lands,
clear revenue, £86,500; total, £459,550. There were 1385 benefices in
Ireland, a considerable number of which were sinecures, not merely from
the circumstance of having no members of the church of England within
their locality, but also from the fact that they were in the hands of
the dignitaries of the church, who performed little or no service
in them. There were also many which had been suppressed by the
church-temporalities act, divine service not having been performed in
them for three years. Perhaps the number necessary to keep up would be
about 1250. It was intended, indeed, under this bill, to give power to
the privy-council to constitute new benefices in Ireland, of which they
were likely to avail themselves to some extent. The whole payment to be
made to the clergy of the 1250 benefices he calculated at £361,928,
thus leaving a surplus of £97,612. This was a larger surplus than he had
hoped for last year; but as the committee of the privy-council would, in
certain cases, have the power to constitute new benefices, this surplus
would be likely to undergo some alteration. It would also be remembered
that no part of the surplus could be expected to be realised for some
time to come, from the necessity of satisfying vested interests, and of
making other important arrangements. After satisfying all the charges
that must be met, it was proposed to have the remainder paid into the
consolidated fund, upon which a charge of £50,000 per annum was to be
fixed, for the purpose of supplying religious and moral education to the
people of Ireland. The second reading was delayed till the 1st of June,
when Lord Stanley, who had previously given notice of his intention,
moved this amendment:--"That leave be given to bring in a bill for the
conversion of tithe into a rent-charge, and for the redemption thereof,
and for the better distribution of ecclesiastical revenues in Ireland."
In reply, Lord John Eussell reminded the house that he had expressed his
willingness to allow Lord Stanley to bring in his bill as a substantive
measure; but when it was moved as an amendment on the original motion
before them, it was merely a new form of opposing the second reading of
the government bill, and raising the question on the principle of that
bill. They had been appealed to as gentlemen, but he hoped they were
something more; that they were representatives of popular feelings and
popular interests--representatives, not of local bodies, but of the
whole empire, including the six millions of Roman Catholics in Ireland.
In conclusion, Lord John Russell said that it had been asked, whether he
meant the income of the glebe-lands generally, or in part, to go towards
giving glebe to the Roman Catholic church? He gave a distinct answer
in the negative; government had no intention of providing, out of any
surplus of glebe-lands in Ireland, glebe-lands for the Roman Catholic
church. The debate continued by adjournment on the 2nd and 3rd of June,
the ministerial measure being defended by Lord Morpeth, the chancellor
of the exchequer, Messrs. O'Connell, Shiel, Ward, and others; and that
of Lord Stanley being supported by Sergeant Jackson, Sirs James Graham,
and E. Peel, and Mr. Lefroy, and others. The most remarkable speeches
delivered in this debate were those of Mr. O'Connell and Sir Robert
Peel. The debate was closed by the chancellor of the exchequer, who
complained that the opposition fixed upon ministers all the opinions of
those who supported the bill. On a division, ministers had a majority of
thirty-nine; the votes for the second reading being three hundred, and
for Lord Stanley's amendment, two hundred and sixty-one. A motion was
made on the 1st of July for going into committee on the bill, on
which day the ultimate designs and the real wishes of the Papists were
disclosed by Mr. Crawford, who moved the following resolutions:--"1.
That it is expedient that tithes, and all compositions for tithes in
Ireland should cease, and be for ever extinguished, compensations being
first made for all existing interests, whether lay or ecclesiastical;
and that it is also expedient that measures should be adopted to render
the revenues of the church lands more productive, and more available
for the support of the working clergy of the establishment; and that all
persons not in communion with the established church of Ireland should
be relieved from all assessment for its support. 2. That it is expedient
that the moneys necessary for the aforesaid compensation (estimated at
£2,500,000) should be advanced out of the public revenue, and afterwards
repaid by instalments from the proceeds of a tax to be imposed on
profit-rents; such tax to cease and determine as soon as the said debt
shall be paid." These resolutions, however, were rejected by a majority
of fifty-one against eighteen. In the committee the Irish leader
betrayed his conviction that it would be impossible either to pass the
bill, or to make it the means of raising any popular excitement against
the house of lords. On the discussion of the first clause, he said, that
to discuss anything was only waste of time; for it was clear that no
measure for the pacification of Ireland, whether respecting tithes or
anything else, was likely to pass. Any bill containing solid relief
was sure to be destroyed; they were legislating in despair. He himself
intended to have proposed several amendments; but he should not do so,
as there could be no doubt the lords would throw out the bill. The only
debate which took place in the committee arose on the question, whether
the appropriation clause should stand part of the bill. The arguments
adopted were a repetition of all that had been formerly urged,
diversified with a few new illustrations, and some acrimony of
expression. The clause was retained on a division by a majority of two
hundred and ninety against two hundred and sixty-four. The bill was
finally read a third time, and passed on the 15th of July.

The second reading was moved in the lords on the 22nd of July. Lord
Melbourne briefly explained its provisions, observing that it was not
necessary for him to go into any lengthened argument on the subject.
It was read a second time without opposition, the Duke of Wellington
declaring that he was prepared to consider it in committee, with a view
to make such amendments as might render it consistent with the interests
of the church and the people. The house went into committee on the
25th, and the bill was passed on the 28th. When passed, however, all the
provisions for what was called appropriation were struck out, and all
the other important arrangements in the bill were modified. By the bill
the clergy were only to receive seventy per cent.; the lords raised it
to seventy-five; they raised also the minimum stipend to be paid in any
benefice to £300. In this shape the bill was sent down to the commons.

Lord John Russell brought the amendments of the lords before that house
on the 2nd of August, when he started a question of privilege, as if the
lords had interfered with a money-bill, thereby leaving the commons no
other choice than to reject it, independently of the merits or demerits
of the alterations which had been introduced. He entered subsequently
into the merits of the amendments at large; and having explained them,
he said, it was for the house to say whether, after having solemnly
affirmed certain principles, it would, because the lords had rejected
them, yield them up, and then endeavour to agree with the lords in the
alterations of this bill, or in the provisions of a new measure. For
himself, he would say, that if the members of the house of commons
were to go up to the bar of the house of lords in such humble guise,
admitting that they had been in error, and that the wisdom of the house
of lords had taught them a lesson of policy they had never learned
before, he, for one, would not accompany the commons on such a message.
Sir Robert Peel, who followed the home-secretary, moved as an amendment
that the lords' amendments should now be taken into consideration; but,
after a brief debate, the motion for rejecting the bill was carried by
a majority of two hundred and sixty against two hundred and thirty-one.


COMMUTATION OF TITHES IN ENGLAND.

One of the leading measures of the session, as regarded England, was for
the commutation of tithes; a measure which was brought forward for the
relief of the dissenters. The ministerial plan for the commutation of
tithes was brought before the house of commons by Lord John Russell
on the 9th of February. The subject, he said, consisted of two parts:
namely, the principles on which the commutation should be made, and the
machinery by which it was to be carried into execution. The machinery,
he confessed, would be borrowed from Sir Robert Peel's bill of last
year. There would be a central board of commissioners, consisting of
three persons, for the purpose of arranging the question of commutation;
and this board would have power to appoint assistant-commissioners to a
certain extent, and in certain cases, in the same manner as the poor-law
commissioners. His lordship admitted that the selection of the principle
on which the commutation should proceed was a subject attended with much
difficulty. In the plan government proposed, their object had been to
produce as little disturbance as possible in existing interests, not
to diminish violently or excessively the income now enjoyed by the
tithe-owners, and to produce some uniformity in the mode of calculating
and valuing tithe throughout England and Wales. As in the bill of last
year, any landowner would be allowed to agree with the tithe-owner for
a commutation of his tithe; and having made such an agreement, he would
stand to the tenant in the relation not only of landlord, but likewise
of tithe-owner. He also proposed that it should be competent for the
possessor or possessors of one-fourth of the value of the tithe to call
a meeting of the owners of land in the parish, at which parties might be
represented as they now were under the poor-law act. When three-fourths
in value of the owners of tithe agreed with three-fourths in value of
the owners of land, they would have power to make an agreement binding
on the whole parish, if no person appealed against it within a certain
period. If any person appealed, it should still be binding against those
who did not appeal. The parties appealing would be compelled to appear
before the assistant-commissioners, who, on hearing their statements,
would make an award, which award, on the ratification of the central
board, would become binding on the parish. If, at the end of a certain
period, he would say six months, no such agreement were made between
the tithe-owners and the tithe-payers, it would be competent for any
landowner, or any tithe-owner, to ask the commissioners to make such a
general award on the tithes of the parish. When such a demand was made,
an assistant-commissioner would be authorised to examine what had been
the amount of tithes, and what had been the expense of collecting the
tithes for the last seven years; he would then declare the amount of
tithes so paid for the last seven years, and that amount would be
represented by a certain quantity of wheat, barley, and oats. If any
person should appeal against this declaration, on the ground that the
amount fixed for the tithes on the composition did not fairly represent
their value, the assistant-commissioner would make an estimate of the
value of the tithes for the seven years previous, and ascertain the
actual gross value of them for that period. If it should appear that
the sum of tithes taken in any parish during a period of seven years
exceeded seventy-five per cent, of the gross value, then it would be
competent to the commissioners to determine that the commutation should
amount to seventy-five per cent. of the gross value, and no more, and
they would reduce the sum accordingly; if, on the contrary, it appeared
that the amount taken was less than sixty per cent, of the gross value
of the tithe, the commissioners would be authorised to raise the sum to
sixty per cent., and to declare that that should be the amount of the
future charge. If the sum paid was between these two limits, it should
be competent to the commissioners to make such an award as they thought
the circumstances and the justice of the case required. In some cases
tithes had been taken to such an extent as ought not to form the basis
of a permanent charge; and, on the other hand, there were instances, as
had been satisfactorily established by undoubted evidence, of clergymen
who did not receive more than forty or fifty per cent, of the amount to
which they were entitled. It appeared just to interfere in these cases;
and he thought it right to fix a sum to be taken hereafter, which should
not exceed or fall below a certain amount, in proportion to the gross
value of the tithe. It was open for consideration, whether sixty or
seventy-five pounds were the proper minimum and maximum: he referred
to these sums only as illustrating the principle. In certain cases,
however, a special regulation would be required, as tithes on hops,
orchards, and gardens, on which the tithes were extremely high. He
proposed giving the commissioners the power of taking certain hop
districts, in order to ascertain the average tithe of the last seven
years, and fix the amount in future. They would also have the power of
declaring what the tithe of any particular land or property should be,
supposing hop cultivation to be abandoned; and it was provided that in
cases where land should be brought into hop cultivation anew, it should
be subject to an additional payment of fifteen shillings an acre on
account of tithe. As regarded orchards and gardens, he had not been able
to settle a particular provision on the subject, although he admitted
lands thus cultivated were particularly circumstanced. The tithe thus
commuted, Lord John Russell continued, would become a rent-charge,
payable by the landowner according to the value of grain: thus--the
average prices for seven years of wheat, barley, and oats would be
published at certain periods by the comptroller of corn returns; this
publication would take place every year, and the payment of rent-charge
made in lieu of tithe would be varied accordingly. The prices of three
different kinds of grain were taken, for the purpose of ascertaining the
value and amount of the charge, so that if an individual were chargeable
with £300 for tithe, one-third would be estimated by the price of wheat,
one-third by that of barley, and the remaining third by the price of
oats, which would be giving each a fair proportion in the gross amount.
Finally, the intended bill did not deal, his lordship said, with the
question of redemption of the rent-charge; that was an important and
difficult subject, and would require to be dealt with in a separate
measure after the commutations should have been made, and the charge
ascertained. Sir Robert Peel said that he would not object to the
measure being introduced, since he thought himself entitled to say that
it was taken in great part from his bill of last year. The whole of its
machinery was, in fact, adopted, and to a certain extent likewise, its
principle of voluntary commutation. The bill passed the second
reading on the 22nd of February without any division, although various
objections were stated, both as to its principles and details; the
former being chiefly directed against the compulsory nature of the
commutation. When the bill went into committee, ministers made several
alterations in its provisions. Thus the period during which voluntary
commutations might be entered into was extended from six months to
twelve; and the clauses under which a single landholder might compel a
commutation in regard to his own property, while there was none for
the rest of the parish, were given up; it was now proposed that a fixed
proportion of the landowners should have power to enter into a voluntary
agreement, which, after a certain time, should become binding on the
whole parish. A great deal of hostility, however, was still expressed
against the measure, and that even among the ordinary supporters of
government. Mr. Hume maintained that no good bill could be enacted till
the corn-laws were repealed, since they had given land and its produce
an artificial value; and as their repeal was anticipated, this measure
would inflict great injury on the landowners, unless the value of the
tithe was fixed much lower than was done by the bill. Great opposition
was also manifested to the maximum and minimum of seventy-five and sixty
pounds, and fixing them merely by the average of the preceding seven
years, but the clause was retained. On the bringing up of the report,
however, government proposed a modification of the clause, to the effect
that the commissioners, on receiving a representation that the sum paid
was not a fair composition, should ascertain the gross value of the
tithe, and should have power to raise or diminish the sum to be paid in
future, but not beyond one-fifth of the sum paid during the
preceding seven years. Some amendments of minor importance were moved
subsequently, but were rejected; and the bill having gone up to the
lords, was read a second time without opposition, and was passed on the
22nd, both sides of the house approving of its general principles.
The Archbishop of Canterbury said, he thought the bill would be very
beneficial in its effects, relieving the land from the pressure of
tithes, and doing justice to the clergy, and as little liable to
objection as any measure that could be framed on a subject so difficult
and so complicated. With respect to those lands which might be brought
into cultivation as agriculture improved, and for which the bill made no
provision, he agreed that to give the clergy a tithe on such land would
be to prevent the general object of the bill--the expenditure of
capital on the land; but when waste lands were enclosed and brought into
profitable cultivation, he could see no reason why such steps should not
be taken in favour of the clergy as were usual in other cases, and why
a portion of the land should not be given to them. His grace accordingly
moved, in the committee, an amendment to the effect, that when waste
or common lands should be enclosed, the commissioners should assign a
certain portion of the land to the tithe-owner instead of his tithe.
This was objected to on both sides of the house, and the amendment was
negatived without a division. The bill passed, and the few alterations
which had been made in the lords were agreed to with one exception. The
peers had agreed to an amendment giving tithe on cows fed in stalls and
sheds. This was rejected; and the lords, when the bill returned to them,
did not insist upon its retention.


BILL FOR REGISTRATION OF BIRTHS, DEATHS, AND MARRIAGES, ETC.

On the 12th of February Lord John Russell brought in bills for relieving
dissenters from the necessity of celebrating their marriages according
to the forms of the church of England, and for establishing a system of
registration of marriages, births, and deaths. His lordship stated
that the two bills were not connected with each other, but that the
establishment of a proper system of registration was, in his opinion,
an indispensable pre-requisite to any measure for removing from the
dissenters their grievances relative to marriage. It was further,
he said, an important object, in a national point of view, to have a
general scheme of registration. At present there were no registry of
births, but only of baptisms; no registry of marriages, because they
were only such marriages as were performed by ministers of the church of
England; and no registry of burials, as the only burials registered
were those in which the service was performed by clergymen of the
establishment. He argued that it was necessary we should have a
registration, which should comprehend, indifferently and impartially,
all sects of the people. The late change effected in our domestic
policy, he continued, seemed to furnish the means of attaining this
end without any heavy additional expense. By the poor-law amendment act
there were two hundred and twenty-eight unions already in England and
Wales; and it might be calculated that, when the whole country was
divided into unions, there would be more than eight hundred. In every
union there was a relieving-officer, each union consisting of about
twenty parishes, and containing from sixteen to twenty thousand
inhabitants. There was likewise an auditor appointed by the board of
guardians. Now the government proposed that the poor-law commissioners
should have the power of appointing the relieving-officer, or any other
person whom they might think fit, to keep the register of a certain
number of parishes; and the auditor of the union, or his clerk, or any
other person appointed by the poor-law commissioners, should superintend
the register of that part. There would further be a registry-office
in each county, and a chief office in London, subject, however, to the
authority of the poor-law commissioners. The superintendent in each
union was to send the registers to the county office every two months,
and copies would be transmitted thence to the central office in London.
As regarded the manner in which the registration was to be made, his
lordship said, that the bill would require notice to be given by the
occupier of the house in which the child was born within eight days
after that event had taken place, and that within fifteen or twenty days
the registrar might call upon either the father or mother of the child,
or upon the occupier of the house, to give him certain particulars, in
order to fill up accurately the register in respect to that child. The
person who furnished these particulars would also be required to furnish
the name of the child; if that was declined at the time, and withheld
to a future period, it would be necessary to postpone it, and the
party would be obliged to produce to the registrar a certificate of the
baptism of the child, and to pay him a fee of one shilling for making
the entry. In cases of death likewise the occupier would have to give
an account of the deaths which happened in his house--of the time and
circumstances of the event--in the same manner as was provided in the
case of birth. The registrar, within a certain time, would also call
upon the next of kin, or any person living in the house, to furnish
him with further particulars with respect to the death, the age of
the deceased, information as to what part of the country the deceased
belonged to, and all such other information as was usual and material in
such cases. Persons who gave this information would not be required
to pay any fees for the entry, or, indeed, for anything; but copies or
certificates of the entry at any time afterwards supplied would have to
be paid for. Every registrar would receive two shillings and sixpence
for each name entered by him within twenty days after birth or death,
and one shilling extra after that time, and the superintendent of the
registrar would be paid two-pence on each entry. It was calculated that
altogether there would be about 812,000 entries made in the course of
one year, and that the amount paid to the registrars thereon would be
somewhat more than £40,000. The total expense, including superintendents
and the register-office in London, would amount to about £80,000 per
annum. For the present the lords of the treasury would be empowered to
pay the expenses of the central register-office in London; the future
expenses would be borne by the parishes, according to the number of
entries supplied by each. Lord John Russell next proceeded to state
the provisions of the registration of marriages. He laid it down as a
principle that the state had no interest in the form of the marriage
ceremony, beyond that of its being binding on the consciences of the
parties. When it was ascertained that due notice of the contract had
been given, according to the form requisite to be followed by all
parties, that the contract was duly registered, and that the manner in
which that contract was entered into was binding upon the consciences of
the parties to it, then the state had learned all that it was essential
or necessary for it to know. The law of the country, however, as it at
present stood, took a very different view. By the marriage law of
1754 it was declared that a marriage, in order to be valid, must be
performed--after bans published in the church, or licence granted by
authority--in the church, within certain hours, except under a special
licence, and in all cases by a clergyman of the church of England. This
law he considered as an unnecessary violation of conscience, and he
proposed to leave the marriages of the members of the church of
England as they were under the present law, and to allow the Protestant
dissenters to be married in their own chapels, according to the
religious form most acceptable to themselves. Instead of the
publication of bans, he proposed that all persons, whether of the church
establishment or Protestant dissenters, should give notice of their
intention to marry to the registrar, and that their names should be
entered by him in a notice-book, open to inspection for twenty-one days
prior to the celebration; but that persons intending to marry by licence
would be required to give only eight days' notice; and special licences,
issued under the authority of the Archbishop of Canterbury, would still
be retained. If the parties were unknown to the registrar, some person
known to him would be required to declare that they were the parties
they professed themselves to be. After the names had remained twenty-one
days on the notice, the registrar would have to give them a notice to
that effect, and the marriage might be celebrated within three months
from that date. If the parties were members of the church of England,
the clergyman, on the production of the certificate within the period,
would be empowered to perform the ceremony without the publication of
bans; or, if the parties were dissenters, they would be at liberty to
go to a dissenting chapel with the certificate of notice, and, on its
production, the ceremony would there be solemnized. The chapel, however,
must first be duly licensed, on the application of at least twenty
householders, who must declare that it was a dissenting chapel, used as
a place of worship, and that they desired it to be licensed for the
celebration of marriages. It was further proposed that as a dissenting
minister was not known so well as a clergyman of the church of England,
and that as he might take upon himself the office and lay it down again,
the registrar should be present at such marriages, and should afterwards
enter the names of the parties on the registry. To those who considered
marriage to be altogether a civil contract, he would give something
like what had been proposed last year by Sir Robert Peel, with this
exception, that the parties, instead of going before a magistrate, would
go before the registrar of marriages for the district in which they
resided, who would enter the marriage contracted before him in a form
of words set out in the bill. In respect to the registration of other
marriages, the only difference between members of the establishment and
dissenters would be this--that the established clergyman might enter the
certificate of marriage in his own register, and send a duplicate copy
thereof to the superior registrar of the district, to be forwarded by
him to London; while, in the case of dissenters, it would be required
that the ceremony should be performed in the presence of the registrar,
who would certify that the marriage had taken place after a compliance
with all the forms.

The bills were brought in, and were read a second time on the 15th
of April without any opposition. The registration bill passed through
committee without any important alteration; and the house of lords
passed it on the 15th of August, with several amendments, to which the
commons agreed. In the committee on the marriage bill, it was proposed
to continue the publication of bans in rural districts, as a more
effective means of giving notice to families interested in preventing
a clandestine marriage than a register, which would require to be
daily examined. It was also proposed to allow a dissenting chapel to be
licensed for marriage purposes on the application of ten householders
belonging to the congregation, instead of twenty, because there were
many such chapels which did not contain ten householders. Both these
propositions were rejected, as was also a motion for the rejection of
the clause which allowed persons who objected to marry in church, or
in a registered meeting-house, to marry at the office of the registrar.
This clause was objected to on the ground that it altered the whole
marriage law of England, and separated the contract of marriage from all
religious sanction; but a large majority decided in its favour. On the
third reading Mr. Goulburn moved the insertion of a clause requiring, in
all cases where marriages were not solemnized in a church or chapel, nor
according to the rites of the church of England, that the parties should
make the following declaration:--"I do solemnly declare that I have
conscientious scruples against the solemnization of marriage according
to the rites and ceremonies of the church of England." This motion,
however, was rejected by a large majority, and another was carried,
which went to reject the eighteenth clause of the bill, which required
persons married before the registrar solemnly to declare that their had
conscientious scruples against marrying in either church or chapel, or
with any religious ceremony. Sir Robert Peel said, that the bill thus
altered had assumed an entirely different aspect; while it provided
for the relief of the dissenters, it passed a gratuitous and most
intolerable insult on the feelings and principles of the members of the
church of England. Lord Lincoln, after making similar remarks, moved, as
an amendment, that the bill should be read that day six months; but the
third reading was carried by one hundred and four against fifty-four. In
the lords the second reading encountered no opposition, objections to it
being reserved for the committee. In the committee the Bishop of Exeter
moved, in order to avoid the desecration of the marriage contract when
the ceremony was not performed in church, that the parties should make
the following declaration:--"In the presence of Almighty God and these
witnesses, I, M., do take thee, N., to be my wedded wife, according to
God's holy ordinance; and I do here, in the presence of God, solemnly
promise, before these witnesses, to be to thee a loving and faithful
husband during life," instead of, as it stood in the bill, "I call upon
these persons here present to witness that, I, A. B., do take thee, C.
D., to be my lawful, wedded wife." This amendment was carried; but
on the bringing up of the report, the bill, on the motion of Lord
Melbourne, was restored in this respect to what it had formerly
been. The lords, however, struck out that provision of the bill which
abolished the proclamation of bans, and they enacted with regard to all
marriages of members of the established church, that bans should still
be proclaimed. They likewise enacted that the superintendent of each
district should send to the clerks of the unions the names of all
persons who gave notice of their intention to marry, they being
Protestant dissenters, and that their names should be read weekly, for
three successive weeks, at the meetings of the guardians of the poor.
Finally, in some parts of the bill they introduced an oath in
place of a declaration, and required the interference of the
superintendent-registrar, instead of the registrar. Some of these
amendments were very unfavourably received by the dissenting interest in
the commons, and an amendment was carried expunging the enactment
that the names of dissenters intending to marry, should be read by
the guardians of the poor at their weekly meetings. To all the other
amendments of the lords, the commons, on the advice of Lord John
Russell, agreed.


BILL TO ALTER THE REVENUES AND TERRITORIES OF THE DIFFERENT SEES, ETC.

{WILLIAM IV. 1836--1837}

During the administration of Sir Robert Peel, a commission had been
appointed to inquire what useful changes, if any, could be introduced in
the ecclesiastical condition of the church of England, so as to remove
anomalies which might still exist in it, and insure more effective
pastoral superintendence. This commission had made a first report before
Sir Robert Peel had resigned, and on the occurrence of that event his
successors continued it, though its official members were changed. The
second report was presented to both houses early in the present session,
when it appeared that the inquiries of the committee had been threefold:
first, their recommendations referred to the ecclesiastical division
of territory, and the revenues of the different sees; secondly, to the
cathedral and collegiate revenues, which it was desirable should be made
more useful for the church establishment; and, lastly, the residence
of clergymen on their benefices. During this session Lord John Russell
introduced into the lower house a bill founded on those recommendations,
which regarded the new modelling of the episcopal sees in relation to
territory and income; and at a later period, another measure was
brought in, providing for the suppression of cathedral and collegiate
preferments, and sinecure benefices. A third measure was likewise
brought into the house of lords by the Archbishop of Canterbury, to
carry into effect the recommendations of the commissioners regarding
pluralities and non-residence.

The bill concerning the territories and revenues of the diocesses, or
the established church bill, recited those parts of the reports of the
commissioners which set forth the proposed alterations among the sees,
and deductions from their revenues. The first of these reports had
recommended a different territorial arrangement of diocesses, with
the view of making them more equal; the suppression of two sees; the
erection of two others, those of Manchester and Ripon, in their places;
and that the revenues of the sees--the two archbishoprics, and the sees
of London, Durham, and Winchester excepted, should not exceed £5500,
nor fall below £4500. The second report proposed that the diocess
of Bristol, which, according to the previous recommendation, was to
comprehend part of the diocess of Llandaff, should be united, as far as
respected Bristol, with the diocess of Bath and Wells; and, as far
as respected the remaining portion of the see, with the bishopric of
Gloucester. It was further proposed that the Isle of Man should be
united with the bishopric of Carlisle. With regard to the revenues,
the second report recommended that the income of the Archbishop of
Canterbury should be reduced from £17,000 to £15,000; of the see of
London, from £12,200 to £10,000; of Durham, from £17,800 to £8000; of
Winchester, from £10,700 to £7000; of Ely, from £11,000 to £7500; and of
Worcester, from £6500 to £5000. The excess produced by these deductions
was to be divided among thirteen sees, so as to make their respective
revenues range between £5500 and £4500 per annum. It was further
suggested that some useful measure might be proposed with respect to the
mode of granting leases; but this was a subject which the commission had
found extremely difficult in treating with, and therefore they had not
agreed upon any proposition. After reciting these various parts of the
reports of the commissioners, Lord John Russell's bill incorporated
a board of commissioners under the style of "the ecclesiastical
commissioners for England," which board was composed of spiritual and
lay peers, of the lord-chancellor, the president of the council, and
first lord of the treasury, of the chancellor of the exchequer, and
such of the secretaries of state as his majesty might name for the
time being, and of the right honourable Henry Hobhouse and Sir Herbert
Jenner. The bill further enacted that the commissioners from time to
time should lay before the king in council such schemes as should appear
to them to be best adapted for carrying into effect the before-cited
recommendations, and such measures as should appear to them necessary
for the proper execution of these schemes, with a power of making such
modifications and variations in matters of detail, as might not be
repugnant to the recommendations themselves. When any such scheme had
been approved of by his majesty, it was to be ratified by an order of
the king in council, published in the _Gazette_, and recorded by the
registrars in the diocesses, and was thereafter to be of the same force
and effect as if every part of it had been included in this act. A
clause was inserted, enacting that in future no bishop should hold _in
commendam_ any ecclesiastical office, dignity, or benefice, all
such grants being declared null and void; and by another clause the
commissioners were directed to prepare a scheme for preventing the
appointment of clergymen not fully conversant with the Welsh language,
to any benefice in Wales, with the cure of souls, where the majority of
the inhabitants of the parish did not understand English. On the motion
for going into the committee on tire bill, the second reading of which
had encountered no opposition, Lord John Russell entered at considerable
length into this measure, and likewise the other two bills which were
to accompany it in reforming the church. It would be mere repetition
to record his expressions on the first measure; but passing to the
recommendation of the commissioners for suppressing collegiate and
cathedral charges, and benefices without the cure of souls, he said,
that the income which would become available from these sources would be
£130,000. In making a new application of this revenue, the first regard
would be given to the wants and circumstances of the parishes from which
the revenue was derived. The want of church accommodation in many places
was lamentable. With respect to patronage, Lord John Russell added,
it was proposed that instead of the large number of livings now in the
hands of the dean and chapters, for the future they should only have the
power either of appointing one of their own body, or one of their minor
canons to benefices; but if they were not accepted, they should, after
three months, be disposed of by the crown in some cases, and by the
bishop of the diocess in others. With respect to the patronage of the
crown, by which the church was connected with the state, he thought
it would be a great evil to have the church totally independent of the
state. Patronage was one of the means by which the church was united to
the state, and by which the latter was bound to promote the interest and
welfare of the church; and on the other hand the clergy were enlisted
in the common cause and general policy of the state. He considered also
that the patronage in the hands of bishops and individuals was useful;
and the commissioners had proposed that the patronage in the hands of
cleans, prebends, and residentiaries, should go into the hands of the
bishops. On the motion for going into committee the bill was inveighed
against as a mockery of reform, which still left the church too wealthy;
merely making a new distribution among the bishops, instead of a
reduction; not only not taking sufficient from the richer bishoprics,
but giving what it even did take to the other bishops, instead of
bestowing it on the poor and working clergy. The bill passed through the
committee on the 14th; and on the bringing up of the report, Mr. Hume
moved that it should be considered that day three months. This motion
was rejected by a majority of more than two to one; and Mr. C. Buller
then moved a clause, to the effect that, until due provision should have
been made for the adequate payment of the parochial clergy, and for the
supply of religious instruction to those parts of the country stated in
the report of the commissioners to be destitute thereof, the Archbishop
of Canterbury should receive an income of not more than £8000; the
Archbishop of York, £7000; the Bishop of London, £4500; and each of
the other bishops £4000. This proposition was rejected by a majority of
eighty-two against forty-four; but the resistance of ministers seemed
only to increase the opposition of their radical opponents. On the
motion for the third reading, Mr. Hume moved, as an amendment, that the
bill should be read a third time that day six months. It was impossible,
he said, that the bill could pass; and if ministers thought it would be
passed, they would find themselves mistaken, and do great injury to the
liberal cause which they professed to advocate; such a bill was not to
be passed while the pledges of the government in regard to the church
remained unredeemed. Mr. T. Duncombe bitterly reproached ministers for
their supposed dereliction of principle; they might talk as they chose
of their Irish tithe-bill and their appropriation clause, but English
church reform would be the touchstone by which it would be tried whether
they would retain the confidence of the country. On a division,
Mr. Hume's amendment was rejected by a majority of one hundred and
seventy-five against forty-four, ministers being supported by the
conservatives, and generally by the Irish members. In the meantime
the lords had been proceeding with the bill regarding pluralities and
non-residence. On the second reading of that bill, the Bishops of Exeter
and Hereford expressed strong apprehensions of the consequences of the
bill, although, as the house was unanimous in its favour, they would not
occasion any vote. The bill was founded on the recommendations of the
commissioners previously alluded to. It was proposed that exemptions
in favour of non-residence should be granted only to chaplains in
attendance on their majesties, or on bishops, the principals of some
schools, and in a few other special cases. The law at present allowed
incumbents to be absent three months; and it was not proposed to shorten
the time, as circumstances did not permit the clergy generally to
take advantage of it, and pluralities produced a greater quantity
of non-residence than all other causes. In regard to pluralities,
therefore, the commissioners proposed, that no clerygyman should hold
two livings if the income of one of them exceeded £500, or they were
more than ten miles distant from each other; and that, in no case,
should any clergyman hold more than two livings. The bill further
enacted, that no person should hold more than one benefice, with one
cathedral preferment, and that no person should hold preferment in
more than one cathedral or collegiate church, except archdeacons, whose
office was very laborious, and in general ill-paid. After some remarks
made against some of these provisions by the Bishops of Exeter and
Hereford, the lords agreed to them; and the bill was passed and sent
down to the commons, but it was dropped for the session. Nothing more
was heard of the bills which Lord John Russell had successfully carried
through the commons, regarding the new modelling of episcopal sees, &c.,
and the suppression of cathedral and collegiate preferments and sinecure
benefices. With reference to the latter subject, however, a short
act was passed, in order to prevent the creation of any new vested
interests, by providing generally that all future appointments to any
ecclesiastical dignity or office referred to in the recommendations of
the ecclesiastical commissioners, should be subject to such regulations
as might subsequently be enacted regarding them; and that no appointment
should be made to any canonry or prebend of cathedrals and collegiate
churches, nor to any sinecure benefice not in the patronage of private
persons, or of one of the universities, that was now vacant, or might
become vacant during the continuance of the act, which was limited to a
year, and to the end of the next session of parliament. Various canons
and prebends were excepted, principally those which were attached to
professorships and dignities of the universities; but the canonries of
York, St. Paul, Carlisle, Chichester, and Lincoln, and prebends held
by the Bishops of Lincoln, Lichfield. Exeter, and Salisbury, in their
respective sees, were likewise excluded.


BILL TO ABOLISH THE SECULAR JURISDICTION OF BISHOPS, ETC.

During this session an act was passed, by which the secular jurisdiction
of the county palatine of Durham, with all forfeitures, mines, treasure
trove, and other rights belonging to that authority, were transferred
from the bishop of the diocess and vested in the crown. The county-court
was abolished; and it was likewise declared that the bishop elect, or
any bishop for the time being, should take and hold the see, subject to
such provisions as parliament might make regarding it within three
years from the passing of the act. By another measure, the secular
jurisdiction of the Archbishop of York over the liberty of Ripon
and other places in Yorkshire, and the stoke of Southwell, in
Nottinghamshire; and the secular authority of the Bishop of Ely over the
Isle of Ely, were separated from the sees, and transferred to the king.
A third act was passed, imposing restrictions on the renewal of leases
by ecclesiastical persons. This bill provided, that where a lease had
been granted for more than two lives, no renewal of it should be given
till one or more of those lives had expired; and that, even then, the
renewal should be only for the surviving lives, or for such new lives
as, with the survivors, would make up the number of lives, not exceeding
three, for which the lease had been originally granted. Where the lease
had been granted for forty, thirty, or twenty-one years, it was not to
be renewable till fourteen, ten, and seven years respectively of the
original term had expired; and where it had merely been for years, no
new lease was to be given for a life or lives. It was further required,
that all leases should contain a recital, setting forth, in the case of
a lease for lives, the names of the persons mentioned in the original
lease as those on whose lives it was granted, and specifying such of the
lives as were still existing, or had been exchanged for some other life.
If the lease had been for a term of years, the recital was to set forth
that term, and how much remained unexpired; and every such recital, so
far as related to the validity of the lease containing it, was to be
deemed and taken as conclusive evidence of the matter so recited.


BILL TO AMEND THE ENGLISH MUNICIPAL CORPORATION ACT.

When the bill relative to the reform of municipal corporations came into
operation, in the end of 1835, it was soon discovered that some of
the details of its machinery would require amendment. A bill for that
purpose was brought in early in the present session. In some instances
the mayor and other corporate officers had been elected, when the person
presiding at the election was not legally entitled to preside; and the
bill enacted that, notwithstanding this, all such elections, and all
acts done by the officers so elected, should be good and valid. The
act passed directed that elections should be held before the mayor and
assessors; but, in some instances, there had been elections where there
were no assessors: the present bill proposed to declare, both for
the past and the future, that elections held before the election
of assessors, but with the mayor or council presiding, should be as
effectual as if they had been made before the mayor and assessors. The
act provided, that the councillors who should go out of office were to
be those who had been elected by the smallest number of votes; and if
the votes had been equal, the majority of the council was to determine
who should first go out. This did not provide for the case when there
was no division of votes, in consequence of there being no contest; and
the present bill provided for this case, by enacting that the majority
of the council should select their out-going colleagues. The act did not
provide for the town-councillors being equally divided in the election
of mayor or alderman, and instances had occurred of two parties in
the council dividing against each other till midnight, after which no
election could take place, as the day named in the act had expired: it
was proposed by the present bill that, in such a case, the councillor
who had the greatest number of votes at the election should preside, but
without any casting vote, and that when the councillors could not
agree on a mayor or alderman, the election should be referred to the
constituent body. The act had abolished various corporate officers,
without observing that, by their charter, their presence was necessary
at the sessions. Serious doubts had arisen from this as to the legality
of the proceedings at the sessions, before the new officers entered upon
their duties under the act of parliament. The present bill declared that
any court held since the passing of the act of last session, or before
the 1st of May, 1836, in presence of the recorder, or any two persons
who, at the date of that act, were entitled to act as justices for
the borough, had been well and lawfully held. Many of the municipal
elections having been questioned by proceedings in the King's Bench,
as being illegally and invalidly made, it was proposed by the bill that
these causes should be decided in favour of one of the parties by act
of parliament; that the proceedings should be quashed, and suits
prohibited, by enacting that the defendants should have the right of
getting them discontinued on making payment of costs. This bill passed
the commons; and when it came to be read a second time in the house of
lords, the Duke of Wellington and Lord Lyndhurst pointed out the grave
consideration and the careful examination which many of its enactments
would require. Lord Lyndhurst especially called the attention of the
house to the tendency of those provisions which had a retrospective
operation. After the bill, therefore, had been read a second time, it
was referred, with the acquiescence of ministers, to a select committee,
which committee made various amendments upon the bill, all of which
were agreed to by the house and adopted into the bill. The commons, on
receiving the bill back again, agreed to all the amendments except two.
The first of these was an amendment on the provision, that when the
town-council was equally divided in the election of mayor or alderman,
these officers should be chosen directly by the constituent body. The
lords had altered this into a provision that, in case of equality,
the town-council should first of all name by lot one of this number to
preside at the meeting, and that their presiding councillor should have
a casting vote. The second amendment consisted in the insertion of a
clause to continue for another year the arrangement contained in the
municipal act for the management of charitable trusts. No portion of
these new institutions had produced greater jealousy between parties;
the popular party were eager to get hold of them, while the other
insisted on some arrangement which would prevent the funds of charities
from being prostituted to party and political purposes. This jealousy
was not set aside by the municipal bill, which left those charitable
trusts in the hands of the persons then administering them, till the
1st of August, 1837, unless parliament in the meantime should otherwise
provide, and if it did not, then the lord-chancellor was to appoint new
trustees. Previous to this Mr. Smith had brought in a bill to administer
these trusts by a system of popular election. The town-council of each
borough was to fix the number of trustees, and then the trustees were to
be chosen by the municipal electors, each elector voting for only half
of the number, in the idea that this would give both parties an equal
chance. The trustees were to be elected every three years. This bill
had not passed when the municipal bill was sent up to the lords; and it
proceeded upon a system which their lordships were not likely to approve
of. The lords, therefore, had inserted in the municipal bill a clause
continuing for another year that administration of these charitable
trusts which had been admitted into the original corporation act.
The attorney-general moved that the commons should not agree to this
amendment, as Mr. Smith's bill would soon pass; and he further moved
that they should not agree to the amendment regarding the election of
mayor and aldermen when the town-council were equally divided, on the
ground, that it left to chance, and not to the voice of the people,
which should be the predominating party in the corporation. This motion
was agreed to; and the reasons of the commons for disagreeing with these
amendments were communicated to the lords in a conference. The lords,
however, still adhered to their amendments, the Duke of Wellington
contending that the rejection of them was a departure from the principle
on which he and his friends had waived all opposition to the decision of
the select committee, and had consented to adopt the amendments as that
committee had framed them. The decision of the lords to adhere to their
amendments took place on the 1st of July, and on the 28th Mr. Smith's
bill for administering the charities by popular election passed the
commons. The second reading was moved in the lords on the 4th of
August, when it was opposed by the Duke of Wellington, who deemed it as
unreasonable in the circumstances and bad in itself. On a division the
second reading of the bill was negatived by a majority of thirty-nine to
twenty-two. The commons still refused to agree to the clause which the
lords had inserted in the bill on this subject, and there seemed to be
no alternative but to drop the bill. The lower house, however,
resolved to adopt the only course open to them, namely, that of a free
conference, at which the matter in dispute might be debated between the
managers _viva voce_. This course was pursued; but the two houses
could not come to any agreement on these clauses, and finally Lord John
Russell moved that the further consideration of the amendments should
be postponed till that day three months, which motion was agreed to.
Certain bills were subsequently brought in and passed, to supply those
parts of the dropped bill, in which both houses were agreed.


BILL TO ALLOW FELONS' COUNSEL TO ADDRESS THE JURY, ETC.

Several attempts had been made to obtain an act for allowing prisoners
on trial for felony the benefit of counsel to address the jury on
their behalf. Hitherto these attempts had been unsuccessful; but
notwithstanding this, the subject was again brought before the commons
at the commencement of the present session. The bill was introduced by
Mr. Ewart, and it passed the commons by a great majority. The second
reading of the bill in the house of lords was moved by Lord Lyndhurst,
who descanted at large on the justice and reasonableness of the bill
in its principle, although he did not approve of all its details. Lords
Denman and Wynford also spoke in favour of the principles of the bill,
and it was accordingly read a second time without opposition. In the
committee, however, several amendments and alterations were made upon
the bill, none of which were of great practical importance except one,
and all of which, except that one, were agreed to by the commons. It
frequently happened that persons were tried for felony where no counsel
were present, and by this bill the privileges of the counsel were
extended to attornies. The bill, as it came up from the commons,
contained a clause entitling the accused to copies of the depositions
upon which he had been committed. This clause was struck out, on the
ground that the rights of a prisoner in this respect were already
settled by law; but, to prevent all doubt upon the subject, a clause
declaratory of the right was again introduced, before the bill finally
passed the lords. A more important matter, however, regarded the right
of the prisoner to have the last word. As the bill passed the commons,
this right was established; but the clause enacting that he should
possess that right was struck out, and the effect of the alteration
was to make the practice the same as in cases of misdemeanour, and in
criminal cases, giving the last word to the prisoner, only in the event
of his adducing no evidence. The bill now consisted of this simple
enactment:--"That all persons tried for felony shall be admitted, after
the close of the case for the prosecution, to make full answer and
defence thereto by counsel learned in the law, or by attorney in courts,
where attornies practise as counsel." When the bill as amended by the
lords came to be taken into consideration by the commons, its supporters
argued that, as it now stood, it conferred no real advantage, and
that it would be better to leave to prisoners the benefit of the
commiseration which the state of the law, such as it was at present,
induced, than to deprive them of it without giving them anything
substantive in return. It was resolved that the lords' amendments should
be referred to a select committee, and that committee reported in favour
of the other amendments; but they decided that any arrangement which
would deprive the prisoner of the last word would be injurious to his
interests, and to the ends of justice. The attorney-general urged the
house to accept the bill as it stood; but the amendment was rejected,
and its rejection immediately communicated to the other house. The
lords, however, still resolved to adhere to the amendment, and a
conference was held, at which their reasons for adhering to it were
communicated to the commons. The amendment was finally adopted by the
lower house, and the bill passed--Lord John Russell stating that the
matter in dispute would form a subject of future deliberation, and Mr.
Ewart assuring the house that he would not fail still to press upon
it the principle which he now sacrificed, rather than reject the bill,
which still retained a great deal of good.

Another act passed during this session had reference to the execution
of those convicted of murder. By the existing law a person convicted of
murder was directed to be executed the next day but one after that on
which he was convicted, unless it should happen on a Sunday, in which
case the execution was to take place on the following Monday. The law
further required that after conviction such persons should be fed only
on bread and water, except in case of sickness, and that no other person
than the gaoler, surgeon, and chaplain, should have access to them,
unless by the permission of the sheriff or the judge who had presided on
the trial. During the present session an act was passed repealing these
provisions, enacting that "sentence of death maybe pronounced after
conviction for murder in the same manner, and the judge shall have
the same power in all respects, as after conviction for other capital
offences."

A third act passed this session related to medical attendance on
inquests. This was an act to provide that when medical men were called
from their ordinary duties to serve the public by giving evidence
on coroners' inquests, and going through the anatomical and chemical
processes which these examinations sometimes required, they should
receive a proper remuneration. This bill, which was brought in by Mr.
Wakley, enacted that not only the coroner should have power to summon
medical witnesses, but "that if the jury were not satisfied with
such medical evidence, the coroner should be bound to summon another
gentleman of the same profession; and every medical witness so summoned
was subjected, in case of non-attendance, to a penalty of £5, to be
recovered summarily before the justices." On the other hand, every
medical man attending to give evidence was entitled to the fee of one
guinea; and if he had performed a post-mortem examination, his fee was
to be two guineas. The fees were made payable out of the poors'-rates.


ABOLITION OF IMPRISONMENT FOR DEBT, ETC.

{WILLIAM IV. 1836--1837}

In the preceding session a bill for the abolition of imprisonment for
debt had passed the commons; but from the lateness of the session it
was not possible for the lords when they received it to take it into
consideration. The lord-chancellor took up the subject himself in this
session, and a bill similar to that passed by the commons was read a
first time in the lords on the 30th of June. It is unnecessary to give
the details of the measure as it was not permitted to pass. Indeed the
house of lords seemed determined to avenge itself upon the ministry
which carried the reform bill, by rejecting every measure it introduced,
except where the feeling of the country was too strongly in favour of
such measure. On the second reading, the Duke of Wellington objected
to taking up at that late stage of the session a measure involving such
extensive interests, and introducing a new system of law. His grace
moved, that the bill should be read a second time that day three
months; and his motion was supported by Lords Abinger and Wynford, who
considered it not as rejecting any measure founded on the principle of
the bill, but only as postponing the subject till they could give it
due consideration. Lord Melbourne agreed that the weight of business
pressing on the house was great; but he did not see anything in it to
deter them from proceeding with the bill. The proposed delay, he said,
would only carry them to the 1st of August; and there was no probability
that parliament would be prorogued by that time. On a division, however,
the amendment was carried; and, although the session continued till the
20th of August, the subject was not again brought forward.

In his speech from the throne the king had recommended to parliament
"to consider whether better provision may not be made for the speedy
and satisfactory administration of justice in some of the departments
of law, and more particularly in the court of chancery." These words
had been used in reference to an intention entertained by government of
dividing the office of lord-high-chancellor, distributing his functions
between two judges, one of whom should be devoted to legal duties,
and be irremovable; while the other should retain the patronage and
political functions of the office, and should be liable to be dismissed
with the ministry who appointed him. On the 28th of April, the
lord-chancellor brought forward the measures by which this great change
was to be effected; and he founded the necessity of such measures on
the increase of business which had taken place in the court of chancery,
both in its original and appellate jurisdictions. On the second reading,
Lord Lyndhurst objected to these bills in point of principle. The
necessary effect of the measure would be, he said, to divide the office
of chancellor, and to disqualify him from exercising that very
appellate jurisdiction to which he was devoted. This separation was most
mischievous; and he, therefore, moved that the bill should be read that
day six months. On the other hand, Lord Langdale did not consider that
the bill went far enough. He held it, he said, to be indispensable that
the judicial functions of the chancellor should be separated from those
which were not judicial: and that the appellate jurisdiction of the
house of lords ought to be placed under the superintendence of a
judge having no connexion with politics. Lord Abinger and the Duke of
Wellington supported the amendment; the latter remarking that it was
important that the most eminent lawyer in the country should occupy such
a position in the councils of his majesty as would give those councils
substantial benefit from his assistance. Lord Melbourne contended that
the house could do no wrong in going into committee on the bill; but
on a division the amendment was carried by a majority of ninety-four to
twenty-nine.


ELECTION COMMITTEES.

Early in the session Mr. C. Buller brought the subject of the
constitution of election committees before the house of commons, by
moving "that a select committee be appointed to consider the laws
relating to the determination of the right of voting, and the trial
of controverted elections." In accordance with this motion a select
committee was appointed; but its labours did not produce any fruit
during the session. In the preceding sessions bills had passed the
commons to disfranchise the borough of Stafford; but none of them had
passed both houses. A new bill was passed by the commons, and sent up
to the lords in the beginning of April. The second reading of the bill,
however, in the house of lords was negatived by thirty-eight against
twenty-two. On the 11th of June Mr. Hume moved in the house of commons,
that the issuing of the writ for the borough of Stafford should be
suspended till ten days after the next meeting of parliament. This
motion was carried by a great majority.

Another question touching parliamentary purity attracted still greater
attention. In May, 1835, the election of Colonel Bruen and Mr. Cavanagh
for the county of Carlow had been declared void by a committee. Messrs.
Vigors and Raphael were elected in their stead, by the interest of
Mr. O'Connell. Upon a petition, however, these members were likewise
unseated; and Mr. Raphael, who resided in London, believing that Mr.
O'Connell had broken faith with him, published an account of the bargain
by which he had secured his influence. It appeared that Mr. Raphael had
begun to negociate with the agitator while the petition against Colonel
Bruen and Mr. Cavanagh was still pending, and that the pecuniary treaty
was concluded on that petition having terminated unfavourably for these
gentlemen. Its terms were contained in the following letter, dated the
1st of June:--"My dear sir, you have acceded to the terms proposed
to you for the election of the county of Carlow, viz., you are to
pay before nomination £1,000--say £1,000, and a like sum after being
returned; the first to be paid absolutely and entirely for being
nominated; the second to be paid only in the event of your having been
returned, I hereby undertake to guarantee and save you harmless from any
and every other expense whatever, whether of agents, carriages, counsel,
petition against the return, or of any other description; and I make
this guarantee in the fullest sense of the honourable engagement that
you should not possibly be required to pay one shilling more in any
event or upon any contingency whatever." Mr. O'Connell wrote to the
electors on behalf of Mr. Raphael; and, on the 10th of June, Mr.
O'Connell received through his son, likewise a member of parliament, the
first sum of £1,000. On the 21st he was returned; and, Mr. O'Connell,
apparently in the prospect of a petition, wrote thus to his protégé:--"I
am glad to tell you our prospects of success are, I do believe, quite
conclusive. If only one liberal is to be returned, you are to be the
man.

"I have made all the pecuniary arrangements.... I send you Vigors' letter
to me. You see how secure we are. Return me this letter, as it vouches
£800 for me; with that you have nothing to do, as, of course, I stand
between you and everybody." A petition was presented against the return;
and Mr. Raphael considered himself safe from any further expense except
the sum of £1,000, and that Mr. O'Connell was bound by the express terms
of his bargain to defend the return. He paid the second moiety of the
£2,000 on the 28th of July; on the same day the election committee
was ballotted. Mr. John O'Connell, who had received the money for his
father, was himself one of that committee; and the inquiry before the
committee having resolved into a scrutiny, Mr. Raphael soon discovered
that it was in vain to look for the defence of his seat to his patron.
He called upon Mr. O'Connell to fulfil his engagement "by fighting the
battle so long as a bad vote for the petitioners remained on the poll,
or, at all events, to the end of the session." Mr. O'Connell, however,
either could not, or would not defend him; and Mr. Raphael was unseated
along with his colleague, on which he published the whole transaction to
the world. Mr. O'Connell felt himself called upon to answer the
charges brought against him; and in doing so, he began by abusing his
antagonist. He had been put on his guard, he said, against Mr. Raphael,
by "honest and experienced men," who described him as "a faithless
creature, who never observed any contract, and with whom no person ever
had a dealing without being sorry for it." He admitted the terms of the
bargain; but he insisted that he only acted as the agent of Mr. Vigors,
who was to pay all additional expenses of opposing the petition. The
first sum of £1,000 which Mr. Raphael had paid was expended on the
five days' poll; and he urged that that gentleman had made an excellent
bargain in having all the expenses of nomination and of a five days'
poll covered by a £1,000. As for the other £1,000, he said, that had
been expended in opposing the petition; and he maintained that there was
no obligation to continue that opposition after it had been spent. He
averred that he himself had no pecuniary interest in the matter: he
had made the bargain as acting for Mr. Vigors; for Mr. Vigors he had
received the money; and to him he had paid it over. The most important
part of his statement consisted in the admission of the purpose to
which the money was to be applied in the event of the return not being
petitioned against. He remarked:--"If there should be no petition, I
agreed, on the part of Mr. Vigors, that the greater part of the second
£1,000, more than one-half of it, whatever might be the amount of the
election expenses, should be applied to commence the formation of a
fund to indemnify the voters, and their friends and relations, from that
persecution which the Carlow landlords then threatened, and have since
exercised." The subject was brought before parliament on the 11th
of February, by a petition, setting forth the transaction in all its
bearings. The petition likewise stated "that the ballot for a committee
to try the validity of the said return took place on the same afternoon
on which the said second sum of £1,000 had been so received, in respect
of such return, by the said John O'Connell, for the use of his father,
the said Daniel O'Connell; and the said John O'Connell and Daniel
O'Connell both attended the ballot for the committee; and the said
John O'Connell was, in fact, balloted as a member to serve on the
said committee, and suffered to remain on the list of the committee
as finally reduced." The petition prayed the house to inquire into the
circumstances; and if the charge was proved, to adopt proper proceedings
against the offenders. A similar petition was presented from Bath by
Mr. Hardy, member for Bradford; and it was proposed that both petitions
should be taken into consideration on Monday, the 15th. Mr. O'Connell
wished the discussion to be postponed till the following day, which
was agreed to. On the 16th, therefore, Mr. Hardy moved--"That a select
committee be appointed to inquire into the circumstances attending the
traffic and agreement alleged to have taken place between Mr. Daniel
O'Connell and Mr. Alexander Raphael, as one of the representatives for
the county of Carlow, at the last election, and to report the minutes of
evidence taken before them, with their observations thereon." Mr. Hardy
said, that it was impossible to consider Mr. O'Connell in the light
of an agent, as he had argued: who had ever heard of an agent becoming
responsible to such an amount? The terms of agreement were:--"I hereby
undertake to guarantee and save you harmless from any and every other
expense whatsoever, whether of agents, carriages, counsel, petition
against the return, or of any other description." He thought that Mr.
Vigors was the agent of Mr. O'Connell at Carlow, rather than that Mr.
O'Connell was the agent of Mr. Vigors in London. At all events, the
consequence of the bargain was, that the member for Dublin, whether as
agent or principal, put in two members for Carlow--Mr. Vigors, his old
friend _ex animo_; and Mr. Raphael, his friend _ex contracta_. It was
of little consequence what sort of representatives the people of Carlow
obtained. They had never seen or heard Mr. Raphael, and they knew
nothing about his physical or intellectual abilities; all they knew was
his address, and there was nothing of him even in that but his name. In
his reply, Mr. O'Connell was violent and abusive. He contended that it
was not on account of anything connected with the Carlow election that
this charge was brought forward, but because he had contributed to put
down Toryism, and had thrown his weight into the scale of government to
accomplish that object. He demanded that the inquiry should be extensive
and searching, comprehending the whole of the late general election. He
had neither been guilty of pecuniary corruption by pocketing money,
nor of personal corruption by gratifying his ambition by the improper
expenditure of the money on the part of other persons. He entered into
a long explanation of the circumstances connected with the transaction,
making it appear that he was guiltless in the matter. In conclusion, he
demanded that the committee should not be a packed one, but a committee
of "honourable gentlemen," by which he meant gentlemen who would be
inclined to take a favourable view of the matter. Mr. Warburton thought
that the motion did not make the object of the committee sufficiently
extensive; and he moved the addition of words, authorising them to
inquire likewise into "the application of the money said to have been
received, together with the circumstances under which it was received
and expended." This amendment was agreed to and the committee named, its
members being taken equally from both sides of the house. Two nominees
were likewise appointed, to assist in conducting the evidence; Mr.
Sergeant Wilde on the part of Mr. O'Connell, and Sir Frederick Pollock
on the part of his opponents. The report of the committee was made to
the house by Mr. Colborne, their chairman, on the 11th of March. It read
thus:--"It appears to your committee that the subject may be arranged
under two heads--the first as relating to any traffic or agreement
between Mr. Raphael and Mr. O'Connell for a seat in parliament, and the
second as to the application of the sum said to have been given. It does
not appear to your committee to be necessary for them to enter upon any
detailed summary of the evidence, but they feel it their duty to draw
the attention of the house very briefly to the main points as they bear
upon the question. It appears that Mr. O'Connell addressed a letter,
bearing date, 1st of June, 1835, in which the agreement for Mr.
Raphael's return for the county of Carlow for £2,000 was concluded; the
committee cannot help observing that the whole tone and tenour of this
letter was calculated to excite much suspicion and grave animadversion;
but they must add that, upon a very careful investigation, it appeared
that previous conferences and communications had taken place between
Mr. Raphael, Mr. Vigors, and other persons connected with the county
of Carlow, and that Mr. O'Connell was acting on this occasion at the
express direction of Mr. Raphael, and was the only medium between Mr.
Raphael and Mr. Vigors and the Political Club at Carlow. It appears that
the money was placed to Mr. O'Connell's general account at his bankers
in London. It was, however, advanced the moment it was called for to
Mr. Vigors; and though some of it was paid in bills, the discount was
allowed; the amount, therefore, was available whenever wanted, and
no charge of pecuniary interest can be attached to Mr. O'Connell. It
appears also that this money had been expended under the immediate
direction of Mr. Vigors and others connected with the county of Carlow,
in what may be called legal expenses, or so unavoidable that your
committee see no reason to question their legality; and that the balance
was absorbed in defending the return of Mr. Raphael and Mr. Vigors
before the committee appointed to investigate on the 21st of July,
1835." In moving that this report and the evidence given should be
printed, Mr. Colborne stated, that the committee had agreed unanimously
in the conclusion at which they arrived, and that he had no doubt
that the house would join in the same opinion, if the evidence were
considered without any reference to party feeling. To a large party in
the house, however, it appeared that the committee had overlooked some
important branches of the inquiry, and that matter had come out in the
evidence before the committee which rendered the whole transaction more
deserving of animadversion. On the 21st of April Mr. Hardy again brought
the subject forward, by moving a series of resolutions, which declared
that in the transactions regarding this seat, a breach of privilege had
been committed. The committee itself had found it proved, he said, that
the £2,000 had been paid and received; and if the circumstances under
which the payment and receipt were made did not constitute a breach of
privilege, he had yet to learn what did. He entered at length into
the transaction, and concluded by asserting that there could not be a
grosser case in all its bearings. There had been a contract to sell a
seat in parliament for £2,000. which money was to be appropriated in a
corrupt manner in every respect. From the evidence respecting the Carlow
club, and the £1,000 to be applied to county purposes, nothing could
be clearer than this, that any tenant who fell into arrear of rent from
want of prudence or honesty, had only to say to the club, "My landlord
is against you: if you expect my vote, you must pay my arrears of rent."
What a system was this! If this were to pass unnoticed, who could
object to the formation of Conservative clubs which would say to those
shopkeepers, before whose doors the priests threatened the grass should
grow, we will indemnify you. Better be without the reform-bill than
see it leading to consequences like these. In former days they had to
complain of boroughs being sold: now they had to complain of the sale of
whole counties. Mr. O'Connell applauded the conduct of the members, of
the committee: he would take this stand on their report. The agitator
was defended by Lord Francis Egerton; not that he would wish to imitate
his conduct in many respects, but he thought that he stood acquitted
of pecuniary corruption: that charge was removed, and he did not feel
inclined to go upon the minor questions arising out of the case, because
he wished to be indulgent as well as just. The transaction did not meet
with his approbation, but he looked upon it as part, at least, of the
extensive system now carried on in Ireland; and however strongly he
might deprecate that system, he doubted whether it would be just or
expedient to bring the member for Dublin, or the other parties concerned
in the transaction, within the resolutions of the house. He was not one
of those who felt a desire to bring any man within the scope of a breach
of their privileges. His own hands were as clean as those of most men;
but if everything that he had done in violation of those privileges was
to be brought against him, if a king's evidence could be found in every
instance, he scarcely knew whether he might not himself be brought under
the grasp of a tribunal. Messrs. Warburton and Barneby also stood up in
the defence of Mr. O'Connell. Lord John Russell likewise expressed
his hostility to any further inquiry or proceeding: the report of the
committee, he said, ought not to be touched, unless the house saw some
very strong reasons to doubt the opinions, or to distrust the integrity,
of the gentlemen who had given judgment. He moved as an amendment a
series of resolutions which embodied the report verbatim, making them
the resolutions of the house, instead of the opinions of the committee.
This amendment, after Lord Stanley, Sir Robert Peel, and others had
spoken in favour of the original motion, and other members had stood up
in defence of Mr. O'Connell, was carried by a majority of two hundred
and forty-three against one hundred and sixty-nine. Lord Stanley then
brought the question still more to the point by moving, "That it appears
to this house that there was between the contracting parties a distinct
understanding, that, if any surplus should remain, after providing for
the legal expenses of the election of Mr. Raphael, that surplus should
be applied in the first place to the defraying of the expenses of the
petition against the former elections, and in the next place to the
funds of the Carlow Liberal Club: and such understanding calls for
the notice of the house, as liable to serious abuse, as a dangerous
precedent, and as tending to subvert the purity and freedom of
election." Lord John, in reply, said he would not enter into the matter
of fact, or go into anything beyond the report of the committee; if the
committee had agreed on these facts, and had thought them material, they
would have been reported to the house.

Mr. O'Connell's troubles, however, were not yet over. His return, with
that of his colleague, Mr. Ruthven, for the city of Dublin at the last
election had been petitioned against, and the petition had been referred
to an election committee in the usual manner. This committee made their
report on the 16th of May, when Messrs. O'Connell and Ruthven were
declared not duly elected, and they were accordingly unseated. Their
opponents at the election, Messrs. Hamilton and West, took their seats,
after having been excluded from them for the whole of one session and
the half of another: the committee being appointed in 1835, and not
making their report before 1836. Mr. O'Connell appears to have expected
the result of the inquiry, for he had provided himself with another
seat by making one of his underlings accept the Chiltern Hundreds: he
appeared during the session as the member for Kilkenny. Subsequently,
Mr. O'Connell presented a petition from certain electors of Dublin,
praying that Messrs. Hamilton and West should not be allowed to retain
their seats, on the ground that they had been connected with bribery;
but the report of the committee had stated that they were neither
directly nor indirectly implicated in such practices, and after
reading this report the house ordered the petition to be withdrawn. Mr.
O'Connell maintained that the petition must be received, because the
matter to which it referred had not come under the consideration of the
committee; but the attorney-general declared his opinion that it was one
which could not be received, and the speaker having given an opinion to
the same effect, it was withdrawn accordingly.


NEW HOUSES OF PARLIAMENT.

In consequence of the destruction of the two houses of parliament by
fire in October, 1834, a select committee had been appointed by the
commons, to consider all matters connected with the rebuilding of these
edifices. On their report an address had been presented to the crown to
appoint commissioners to receive plans, from which they were to
select not fewer than three nor more than five, to be submitted to
the committee. More than ninety plans had been sent in, and the
commissioners had selected four out of that number. On the 9th of
February the committee was renewed for the purpose of determining which
of these four ought to be adopted. This was followed by a motion of Mr.
Hume's, that it should be an instruction to the committee to consider
the propriety of removing the houses of parliament to another site. Mr.
Hume, however, only found forty-four members to vote for his motion,
while one hundred and forty-three voted against it. The committee thus
re-appointed made their report on the 16th of March. On that day they
recommended that an address should be presented to his majesty, praying
him to institute inquiries as to what would be the probable expense of
executing the plan which had been sent in by Mr. Barry, the architect.
The committee had not selected Mr. Barry's plan as the best, but they
thought that they could not safely recommend the adoption of any plan
till the expense had been ascertained. The proceeding, was, however, a
plain intimation that the plan in question was the one which had been
adopted by the commissioners and the committee; and a committee also,
in the house of lords had arrived at the same conclusion. The manner of
proceeding gave great offence to the other competitors, and they brought
their complaints before the house of commons on the 21st of June, in a
petition which was presented by Mr. Hume. In this petition they stated
that they had, in framing their plans, taken the probable expense into
account, as an important consideration to which it was their duty to
attend; whereas the commissioners declared that they had come to a
decision wholly independent of the question of expense, as not an object
for their consideration. They further stated that they had given their
best attention to the elaborate instructions given by the committee, as
regarded the number and dimensions of the offices and apartments, while
the commissioners had been guided in the choice by the "superiority
of the elevation." They further stated, that, as well by the general
instructions, as by a report of the committee of the house on sound and
ventilation, of which committee one of the commissioners was a member,
they had constructed their plans with reference to these objects; but
the commissioners had declared that they did not allow that subject to
have weight in determining their preference. Finally, they arraigned the
preference which had been given to the four selected plans, and prayed
the house would either hear them by counsel at the bar, or appoint
competent persons to examine the grounds of the report of the
commissioners before finally adopting any of the plans. This matter was
allowed to lie over till the evidence which had been taken before
the select committee, by whom the commissioners themselves had been
examined, should be laid on the table. The whole subject was brought
forward by Mr. Hume on the 21st of July, who, after descanting at length
on the conduct of the commissioners, moved for an address to the crown,
to direct a new competition of designs, without limits as to the style
of architecture, but not to exceed a certain fixed sum as the cost of
erection, and that such designs should be examined and reported on by
commissioners to be afterwards appointed. The motion was supported by
Messrs. Estcourt and Hawes, and opposed by Mr. Tracy and Sir Robert
Peel. The latter said, that if the house agreed to this motion, they
would strike a fatal blow at the principles of competition, and teach
the most eminent of living architects to rue the day when, in compliance
with an invitation of the house of commons, they sent in plans which had
the misfortune to be found entitled to preference. The question raised
was, not whether they should finally resolve to adopt Mr. Barry's plan,
but whether they would declare all the proceedings that had been taken
to be null. There was not even an implied engagement with Mr. Barry;
there was only a _prima facie_ presumption that his plan was entitled to
a preference. Mr. Hume, on seeing the general feeling of the house was
against his proposition, withdrew it; at the same time he considered
that his arguments had not only been unanswered, but that they were
unanswerable.

On the 3rd of May Mr. Grantley Berkeley renewed his proposition for
admitting ladies to the debates, by moving a resolution, "that it is
the opinion of this house that the resolution of the select committee
appointed in 1835 to consider the means of admitting ladies to a portion
of the stranger's gallery, together with the plan of Sir R. Smirke,
should be adopted, and that means should be taken to carry it into
effect with as little delay as possible." This resolution was carried by
a majority of one hundred and thirty-two against ninety. The chancellor
of the exchequer accordingly proposed among the miscellaneous estimates,
a grant of £400 to defray the expenses of fitting up an adequate portion
of the gallery; but after a few words from the Earl of Lincoln against
the motion and Lord Palmerston in favour of it, the grant was refused by
a majority of forty-two against twenty-eight.


MOTION FOR THE REDUCTION OF TAXATION ON BEHALF OF THE AGRICULTURISTS.

The complaints of the agricultural class of the community still
continued. On the 8th of February Lord John Russell proposed the
appointment of a select committee, in order to inquire into the distress
complained of. His lordship said, that whenever any great branch
of national industry was materially depressed, it was the duty of
parliament to give a favourable consideration to the complaints of those
engaged in it, to ascertain the facts of the case, and, if possible, to
devise a remedy: the proposition arose more from this feeling than from
any hope that the distress of the agriculturists would be removed by
legislative interference. The low price of wheat was stated to be the
main cause of it: the price of wheat was certainly low, but there had
not been an equal fall in the other descriptions of grain. The committee
would, therefore, have to consider not only the price of wheat,
but likewise the alterations which had taken place in the prices of
different kinds of grain, and of other articles of agricultural produce.
They would likewise have to ascertain and to weigh the changes already
produced, and likely to be produced, by the new system of poor-laws.
This committee was appointed, and a similar committee was appointed on
the 18th of February by the house of lords. These committees, however,
ended in doing nothing. On the 21st of July the chairman of the
committee stated to the house of commons that they had resolved merely
to report the evidence, without giving any opinion. A draft of a report
had been drawn up by the chairman; but so much of it was objected to by
those who advocated the agricultural interest, that no report was made.

In the meantime the Marquis of Chandos had brought forward the
distresses of the agriculturists. On the 27th of April he moved a
resolution, "That in the application of any surplus revenue towards
the relief of the burdens of the country, either by the remission of
taxation or otherwise, due regard should be had to the necessity of
a portion thereof being applied to the relief of the agricultural
interests." Lord John Russell objected to the motion, both on its merits
and because he thought it premature to entertain such a question, before
the agricultural committee, then sitting, had made its report. On a
division it was lost by a majority of two hundred and eight against one
hundred and seventy-two.


THE BUDGET, ETC.

{WILLIAM IV. 1836--1837}

By an act of the 4th and 5th of William IV. an additional duty of fifty
per cent, had been imposed on spirit licenses. On the 10th of March Mr.
Divett moved that the house should resolve itself into committee, for
the purpose of considering the propriety of repealing this impost.
The chancellor of the exchequer resisted this motion, opposing it
principally on account of the circumstances under which it was brought
forward.

Various proposals had been made at different times for the reduction or
purification of the pension list. This list had been, in truth, as much
a matter of political principle and of party feeling as of mere finance.
In the preceding session government had consented that it should be
printed; and on April 19th, Mr. Whittle Harvey moved this resolution
on the subject:--"That a select committee be appointed to revise each
pension specified in the return ordered to be printed on the 28th of
June, 1836, with a view to ascertain whether the continued payment
thereof is justified by the circumstances of the original grant, or the
condition of the parties now receiving the same, and to report thereon
to the house." After stating that there were 1303 persons on the pension
list, who received amongst them about £150,000 a year, Mr. Harvey went
into a history of the restrictions which had been laid on the granting
of pensions out of the civil list, from the original bill of Mr. Burke,
down to the accession of his present majesty. The motion was opposed by
Lord John Russell, on the ground that it contained a proposition against
which parliament had already decided, and as being inconsistent with
the practice which had been uniformly folio wed. Mr. Harvey's views were
enforced by Mr. Hume; but the motion was negatived by a majority of two
hundred and sixty-eight against one hundred and forty-six.

The chancellor of the exchequer opened his budget on the 6th of May.
He first explained that the receipts of the last year had exceeded
the estimate by the sum of £338,000; while, on the other hand, the
expenditure had somewhat exceeded the estimates. The income of last
year, he said, had been £46,381,000, and he calculated that it would
amount during the present year to £46,980,000. The total expenditure
would be £45,205,807 leaving a surplus of £1,774,193. But out of this
surplus payment would fall to be made, on account of the West Indian
compensation during the year, to the amount of £1,118,633, leaving, as
the utmost disposable surplus with which parliament had to deal, a sum
of £662,000. Had it not been for the sums payable to the West-India
planters, there would have been a surplus of £2,000,000. In applying
what surplus there was, he continued, to the reduction of taxation,
he preferred selecting those taxes the repeal of which extinguished
a source of fraud to those which merely afford relief. The duties
he proposed to reduce were those on paper, plain and stained, on
newspapers, and on farming buildings; and he proposed to give up those
on taxed carts, and the additional fifty per cent, on spirit licenses.
The amount of all the taxes which he proposed to remit would be £351,000
this year, though when the proposed reductions came into full operation
it would amount to £568,000. At the same time, when the increased
consumption of paper was taken into account, the money collected from
the penny stamp, and the increase of duty from advertisements, he
thought he might say that government would not lose £530,000 a year. The
reduction of the stamp on newspapers was from fourpence to one penny,
and this was deemed by many as being a sacrifice to the demands of a
political party, and not a concession to principles of political economy
or fiscal regulations. There were many other articles, it was contended,
a reduction of the duties on which would contribute much more to the
comfort of the community, and especially of those classes to which
it was proposed to give cheap newspapers and cheap spirits. Sir C.
Knightley moved, that instead of diminishing the duty on newspapers,
the duty on soap should be reduced. This he represented as a duty
which pressed not only severely on the lower classes, but unequally in
comparison with the more wealthy--the soap of the poor man being taxed
at seventy-five per cent., and that of the rich man only at thirty per
cent. This motion was seconded by Mr. C. Barclay, who showed that the
revenue would not sustain a greater loss from the reduction of this
tax than would arise from the diminution in newspaper stamp duties. The
chancellor of the exchequer, however, preferred a reduction of the stamp
duties to those on soap; and on a division the motion was negatived by a
majority of two hundred and forty-one against two hundred and eight.

As the law stood, there was no distinction between newspapers in regard
of duty on account of their size, all differences of this nature having
been removed in 1828. By the new bill, however, this distinction was
restored, an additional duty being imposed on every newspaper containing
more than a certain number of square inches of surface. Government was
accused of having so selected the particular number of inches, as to
impose the additional duty on some of the most influential journals
opposed to them, while it did not apply to their supporters. This
imputation was repelled by the chancellor of the exchequer; but it was
still maintained that such must have been its effect. It was finally
proposed and acceded to by the chancellor of the exchequer, that 1530
square inches, of which the paper might consist without any additional
duty, should be limited to the printed part of the sheet, excluding the
margin, which would meet the size of every paper in the metropolis.
If the sheet exceeded 1530 square inches, but did not exceed 2295, an
additional duty of one halfpenny was to be paid; and if it exceeded
the latter quantity, an additional duty of one penny. Supplements were
likewise to pay a penny additional. Mr. Grote subsequently moved that
every newspaper should be stamped with a die peculiar to itself--an
enactment which was introduced into the bill. The bill enacted that two
proprietors of a newspaper should be registered along with the printer
and publisher. The Radicals contended that every proprietor should be
registered at the stamp-office, and on the third reading a clause
to this effect was carried, the chancellor of the exchequer himself
agreeing to it, he conceiving that it might establish a salutary system
of restraint. When the bill went up to the lords this was the only
clause which encountered opposition; and Lord Lyndhurst moved that it
should be omitted, on the ground that the regulations contained in it
were arbitrary, inquisitorial, unjust, and unnecessary. It was defended
by the lord-chancellor and Lord Melbourne; but the motion was carried
by a majority of sixty-one against forty. The bill was returned to
the commons without any other alteration; but on the motion of the
chancellor of the exchequer it was laid aside, on the principle that the
privileges of the members of the house of commons did not permit them
to entertain an amended money-bill. The chancellor of the exchequer,
however, immediately brought in a bill which was an exact copy of the
one laid aside, except that the provisions in dispute were omitted, and
this bill passed both houses without delay.

The speech from the throne on the opening of the session had recommended
an addition of five thousand men to the navy. This increase was
explained during the session to be necessary for the protection of
British merchants in various parts of the globe--in the Pacific, at
Lima, Mexico, Valparaiso, the coast of Peru, the northern coasts of
the Brazils, the West Indies, Newfoundland, and the East India and the
African stations. Demands had been made in all these quarters, and it
was impossible to comply with them without withdrawing the British naval
force from Spain and Portugal, where their presence was necessary.
On these grounds government proposed this additional force, which was
granted without a division. Mr. Hume, however, endeavoured to make a
compensating saving, by moving a reduction of five thousand men in
the army estimates; and when this motion was negatived, he moved a
proposition which was directed against the foot-guards as being costly
troops, maintained rather for show than use, and enjoying, for the sake
of the aristocracy, prerogatives which were degrading to the rest of the
army: this motion was also negatived.


DISCUSSIONS ON THE COLONIES, AND ON OUR FOREIGN RELATIONS.

At this period unfortunate differences prevailed in the Mauritius
between a part of the inhabitants and the government authorities, and
between one part of the population and another. They were said to
have originated in the desire of the white population to evade some
requirements of the law for the emancipation of the negroes, and were
believed to have been aggravated on the one side by indiscretion, and on
the other by the honest determination of the colonial judges. More
than one judge had been recalled; and the consequence was, that their
successors, who did not pursue the same course, and the governors of the
island were denounced as being guilty of abusing their powers to
prevent the due execution of the emancipation act. Mr. Roebuck took the
discontented inhabitants of the Mauritius under his protection. On the
15th of February he moved, that a select committee should be appointed
to inquire into the administration of justice in that colony. In
supporting his motion, he said, that the mother country had declared
slave-trading to be a felony, and that an order in council was passed,
in consequence of a resolution of that house, to the effect that no
governor, judge, or registrar of slaves, should hold any species of
slave property, either directly, in trust, or mortgage. He charged the
whole body of these functionaries with holding slave property. He
also charged Sir C. Colville, the late governor, with speculating and
creating debts in slave property; and Chief-justice Blackburne, the
officers of the supreme court, and nearly all the functionaries of the
island, with the same gross violation of that order in council. Proof of
the fact, he said, was to be found in the despatches of government; and
he entered into a long statement of mal-administration in that colony.
His statements, on the other hand, were represented by Sir George Grey,
on the part of government, as being mere repetitions of charges which
had been abandoned by those who had made them. The motion was supported
by Dr. Lushington and Mr. Fowell Buxton, the latter of whom said,
that few persons residing in that colony knew its affairs better than
himself: the slave-trade prevailed in the Mauritius to such an extent,
that no man could live for a single week as governor of the island and
not behold it under his own eyes; yet not one of the persons engaged in
the traffic had ever been brought to justice. The reason assigned for
this impunity was this--that no court would authorise a conviction,
and that no public functionary would countenance the man who dared to
interfere with their trade. If a case arose in which it was necessary
that the prosecution should be placed upon record, the accused was, on
the first opportunity, set at liberty. The motion was negatived by a
majority of two hundred and twenty-nine against seventy-one.

It has been recorded in previous pages that political discontents
prevailed in Canada. A large portion of the population, French in its
origin, democratic and intemperate in its views, led on by demagogues,
insisted on demands equally inconsistent with a monarchical government,
and with the supremacy of the mother country. Democratical as were their
views, however, they had their supporters in the British parliament.
On the 16th of May, Mr. Roebuck brought forward a proposition for the
reform of the Canadian constitution, which was to consist in nothing
less than in making both branches of the colonial legislature elective.
By the statute 81 George III., c. 81, a constitution was given to the
province of Quebec, which was thereby divided into Lower and Upper
Canada. The constitution so conferred was professedly a copy of the
constitution of England, the governor being as the king, the legislative
council as the house of lords, and the house of assembly as the house
of commons. The object, Mr. Roebuck said, which he had in view, was to
amend the legislative council, which was no more like the house of
lords at home than the governor of the colony was like the king of these
realms. The members of the legislative council, unlike the house of
lords, were poor, having no tenants, and consequently no influence over
the people; they were a _clique_ holding power for their own purposes.
On the explanation of ministers, Mr. Hume advised Mr. Roebuck to
withdraw his motion, to which he conceded, stating at the same time that
he did not believe government were prepared to say, that a measure for
remedying the evils complained of was delayed only till the report of
the commissioners was received.

Civil war was still raging in Spain, and at this time Great Britain
had interfered in it--an interference which seemed to be becoming more
direct as the situation of the queen became more critical, and the arms
of the Carlists more successful. This subject occupied the attention of
parliament. On the 26th of February Mr. Maclean directed the attention
of the house of commons to the policy of this interference. Lord
Palmerston said that the interference of this country had consisted,
first, in executing the quadruple treaty; and, secondly, in the order of
council which, by suspending the foreign enlistment act, had enabled the
British legion to be formed which was now serving in Spain. The treaty
was now a new one; it did not raise any new question--no motion had
ever been made to disapprove of it--and its execution was admitted to be
imperative.

In the beginning of tin's year a body of Austrian, Russian, and Prussian
troops took possession of Cracow, under the plea that it contained the
elements of dangerous conspiracies against the neighbouring governments.
This subject was brought before the commons on the 18th of March, by
Sir Stratford Canning, from whose statement it appeared that the three
powers had addressed a joint note to the senate of Cracow, requesting
them to send away, within eight days, all Polish refugees and other
dangerous persons; that the senate had remonstrated against so sweeping
a denunciation of individuals, many of whom had resided there for years;
and that military possession had, notwithstanding, been taken on the
expiry of eight days. It appeared further that four hundred persons had
been given up to the commander of the occupying force, while others had
been required to find security for their good behaviour; and that the
president of the republic had resigned, and his place been supplied by
the direct nomination of the residents of the three powers. He contended
that by the treaty of Vienna, the establishment of Cracow as an
independent state was provided for by definite articles, being placed
under the protection of the three powers now in possession of it. He
further contended that Great Britain was an immediate party to this
treaty; that its provisions were parcel of our solemn engagements;
and that when circumstances so extraordinary occurred as that a state,
recognised as free and independent, was occupied by foreign powers, we
were called on to look narrowly at these events, and see whether or not
any violation of the engagement in which we were interested had or
had not taken place. Lord Palmerston found himself embarrassed in
consequence of neither the facts of the military occupation nor its
causes having been communicated to him officially by the three powers.
Doubtless the demand made by the three powers appeared contrary to
the letter of the treaty, for they had not required that the persons
referred to should be given up by the powers to which they might belong,
but that they should be within eight days removed from the territory
of Cracow. At the same time, if statements made were true, as a
justification of the measure, it might be considered as falling within
the spirit of the treaty. It was alleged that a number of person,
natives of Poland, assembled in the state of Cracow, and inspired by
feelings which, perhaps, in their peculiar circumstances were natural,
had established a communication with the inhabitants of some of
the Russian and other parts of Poland, calculated to disturb the
tranquillity of the neighbouring states. But, although the three powers
might be justified in requesting such persons to depart, it did not
follow that they were justified in going to the extreme of military
occupation because their demand was not immediately conceded. As yet no
sufficient reason had been given either for the entrance of the troops,
or the shortness of the interval which had been allowed between the
demand and the entrance which had been effected. All friendly means
should have been exhausted before any such measures were resorted to;
and, under all circumstances, as Great Britain had been a party to the
treaty of Vienna, it was the duty of those powers when they made the
demand, and before they had recourse to occupation, to have communicated
to the government of this country the grounds on which they thought
themselves entitled to act, and the intentions they were about to put
into execution. Messrs. O'Connell and Hume were violent against the
three powers. They advised, that if any part of the Russian Dutch loan
due by this country was not yet paid, payment should be refused till
satisfaction was made to Cracow. Lord John Russell deprecated the
language used by Messrs. O'Connell and Hume, the more particularly as
the honour of Great Britain was not committed in the transaction. Lord
Dudley Stuart, however, contended that the honour of Great Britain had
been violated. Was it, he asked, no affront for these three powers
to tell a great country like this, that the treaty which settled the
possession of all the powers of Europe, and to which it was a party,
should be infringed and violated at their pleasure? By the violation
of the neutrality of Cracow a serious blow had been inflicted on our
national reputation, and on the security of Europe.

During this session a lengthened discussion took place regarding the
dangers to which Europe was exposed from the systematic encroachments of
Russia. The subject was introduced by Lord Dudley Stuart, who moved
an address for the production of the treaty of Constantinople between
Russia and the Porte, the treaty of St. Petersburg, the correspondence
between the British government and the governments of Russia and Turkey
relative to these treaties, and the correspondence between the courts
of London and St. Petersburg regarding the remonstrances made by this
country against the conduct of Russia towards Poland. In reply, Lord
Palmerston said, that he had no objection to produce the treaty of
Constantinople, or Hoonkiar Skelessi; but he would not concede the
production of others. Government, in fact, was not officially possessed
of the treaty of St. Petersburg, and therefore it could not be supplied.
The correspondence, again, between this country, Russia, and Turkey,
relative to these treaties could not be produced without inconvenience
to the public service, and would not answer any object which could be
contemplated by the motion. With respect to the correspondence which had
taken place on the subject of Poland, he thought its production would
not serve any useful purpose. No good could arise from publishing to the
world, after an interval of three years, all the correspondence which
might have passed between two governments on a subject respecting which
their opinion differed, especially as nothing had occurred to make
the publication of this correspondence necessary. Lord Dudley Stuart
expressed himself satisfied with the papers which the foreign secretary
had expressed himself willing to give. Mr. P. M. Stewart, however,
thought that Lord Palmerston was either too blind as regarded Russia,
or too confiding. He referred to his lordship's predictions in 1832
regarding Poland. He had said, "As to the idea which is entertained
by some honourable gentlemen of its being the intention of Russia to
exterminate a large kingdom like Poland, either morally or politically,
it is so utterly impracticable that there need be no apprehension of
its ever being attempted." Since these words had been spoken, Poland
had been politically exterminated, and every exertion had been made to
exterminate her morally. On the 20th of April Mr. P. M.

Stewart brought this subject again before the house, justifying himself
for renewing the discussion on the ground that, since the last debate,
Russia had actually interfered with our commerce on the Danube.
In direct violation of treaties, he said, which declared that the
navigation of the Danube should be free to ships of all nations, Russia
had extorted tribute from British vessels passing down that river; and
she was putting a stop to the trade not merely of England, but of the
whole of central Europe on that magnificent stream, by wilful neglect to
cleanse its channel, which would soon be so filled up that a Thames
punt would not be able to cross it. Mr. Stewart moved--"That an address
should be presented to his majesty, praying him to adopt such measures
as might seem best fitted to protect and extend the commercial interests
of Great Britain in Turkey and the Euxine, and likewise to send a
diplomatic agent forthwith to the free and independent state of
Cracow." This motion was seconded by Sir Edward Codrington, who urged
the necessity of immediately arming, as an expedient which had uniformly
been successful iii checking aggression. In reply, Lord Palmerston
informed the house that government had already sent a consular agent
to Cracow, so that this part of the proposed address was unnecessary.
Government, he continued, concurred in the importance of maintaining and
extending the commercial relations of Great Britain with Turkey,
Persia, and the neighbouring countries; but, in his opinion, nothing had
happened to confine or check them. There could be no doubt that, by the
treaty of Vienna, the navigation of the Danube was free to the commerce
of all countries in Europe. We had, however, suffered no wrong as yet;
and in dealing with foreign nations, it was not prudent to anticipate
injuries at their hands: it was enough to deal with events when they
had occurred. Members of all parties expressed similar opinions; and Mr.
Stewart finally withdrew his resolution.

On the establishment of the kingdom of Greece, Great Britain, France,
and Russia, had agreed by treaty to guarantee a loan of 60,000,000 of
francs for the use of the new monarchy. Two instalments of 20,000,000
each had been paid. Greece, on the other hand, had undertaken certain
obligations in relation to her revenue and its application; and Russia,
on the ground that these obligations had not been fulfilled, refused
to concur in raising the third instalment. Under these circumstances
ministers found it necessary to introduce a bill for authorising the
advance of the money by this country alone. Lord Palmerston made the
proposal, and it encountered considerable opposition even from the
ordinary supporters of government. The resolution, however, moved by
Lord Palmerston, authorising his majesty to guarantee the portion to
which this country was liable of the third and last instalment of the
loan to be advanced to the King of Greece, was carried by a majority of
eighty-one against forty. The bill founded on the resolution encountered
the same objections which had been raised to the resolution itself; but
it passed without any determined opposition. In the house of lords
the Duke of Wellington said, that while he admitted the measure was
necessary, he thought that the necessity was an unfortunate one, and
might have been avoided. It did not appear to him that proper measures
had been taken to obtain the concurrence of Russia. The first demand
made by Greece was for 3,000,000 francs; why was not an effort made to
obtain the consent of Russia to advance her share of this sum? Why was
Russia left out of that part of the negotiation? If Russia had been
called on for her portion, it would have amounted to nearly the sum
which this country was about to advance under existing circumstances;
and the consequence would have been this--that the three powers would
now be placed on the same footing. But how would it be hereafter?
Great Britain would be a creditor of Greece to the amount of 20,000,000
francs, with a claim on the resources of Greece, which must and would
be pressed, for the interest and sinking-fund of that amount of debt. On
the other side, Russia would have in hand the third part of 20,000,000
francs to issue to Greece whenever, and under whatever circumstances she
thought proper. France was placed in a similar situation; and both these
countries would, therefore, stand in a more desirable relation towards
Greece, having always the power of conferring a benefit, than that which
would be occupied by this country, who could only be a creditor pressing
for payment of a debt.


PROROGATION OF PARLIAMENT.

During this session the proposal for removing the civil disabilities of
the Jews was brought forward by the chancellor of the exchequer himself,
and was carried through the commons, but was rejected by the lords. Mr.
Rippon also renewed a proposal he had made in 1834, for the expulsion
of the bishops from the house of lords; but his motion was lost by an
overwhelming majority. Mr. O'Connell moved for leave to bring in a bill
to reform the whole house of lords, by making that body elective, a
motion which gave rise only to laughter. Mr. Grote also brought forward
his annual motion for vote by ballot; but it was lost by a majority of
one hundred and thirty-nine against fifty-one. Parliament was prorogued
on the 20th of August, by the king in person.


THE AFFAIRS OF IRELAND.

The royal speech had announced that tranquillity prevailed in Ireland;
but yet that country was not in a state of quiescence. Agitation was
still at work: societies and combinations were being formed, and the
angry passions of the multitude lashed almost into fury. At this time
the authorities were enforcing the payment of tithe; and this excited
the wrath of the leaders of the Popish party. This wrath was aggravated
by the refusal of the house of lords to create, by passing the
ministerial municipal bill for Ireland, a mass of Catholic corporations,
of which there was every reason to apprehend that, while they would
not have any useful duties to discharge as machines for municipal
government, they would become powerful and legalized engines for working
out the great aim of the Papists--the destruction of the Protestant
church. The clauses which went to reconstruct the Irish corporations
were struck out by the lords on the 17th of May; and on the following
day Mr. O'Connell put forth a letter "to the people of England," the
object of which was to rouse them to show their gratitude to Ireland
for the aid which she had lent them in carrying the Reform Act, by
destroying the character and rights of the house of lords. This epistle,
however, was addressed to deaf ears; his sentiments rather tended to
call forth expressions of opinion that the lords should fearlessly
exercise their constitutional rights. In his letter, he had threatened
to reorganize agitation; and finding his exertions to that end useless
in England, he resolved to cany out his threat in Ireland. The course
which it was wished that the people of Ireland should adopt, was
explained by Mr. Shiel in clear terms. It was wished that a strenuous
and simultaneous movement of the popular masses should take place;
that the millions of Ireland should be roused; and that the might which
slumbered in her arm might be developed; above all, that "the active
system of organization should again be strenuously applied, with its
weekly meetings, its appeals to the people, its enthusiasm, and exciting
eloquence." Doubts were expressed by some persons of the prudence of
forming a permanent association at present. Mr. Pigott, a barrister,
however, suggested an expedient, by which all the advantages of
association might be secured without its name. He recommended that the
requisitionists, who had called a public meeting in Dublin for the 23rd
of May, should constitute themselves an open committee, with power to
add to their numbers, which should meet from time to time as occasion
might require, and should arrange communications with the most active
inhabitants of the different towns and districts who might be disposed
to second their object, in order to obtain petitions from all parts of
the country. This plan was adopted; and the objects of the new agitation
were declared to be municipal institutions, founded on the same
principles of popular election and control which had been adopted in
England, and the speedy settlement of the tithe question. This committee
dispatched circulars all over Ireland, urging the people to hold public
meetings for the purpose of voting petitions to parliament on these two
questions, and directing the petitioners how to draw up their petitions.
It was soon found, however, that this plan was not effective, and that,
therefore, a revival of the machinery of the Catholic association would
be necessary, in order to exercise the required influence over the
public mind, and to raise funds for the support of agitation. The
"petition committee," as it was called, complained in a meeting, held on
the 1st of July, that petitions came in slowly, and that the people of
Ireland were dormant and dead to what ought to be now their feelings,
of nationality. Under these circumstances it was deemed prudent to
"recreate the active system of organization devised by Mr. O'Connell,
with its weekly meetings," and other appliances. A "general association"
was now formed on the model of the Catholic association, using the same
species of influence, but bearing another name and professing different
objects. The two declared objects of the association were to obtain the
abolition of tithes and municipal corporations; to these were added a
minute attention to the approaching registrations, in order to increase
the democratic party in the house of commons. These and the other
purposes of the association required money; and accordingly the "justice
rent" was established. The association was to meet once a week in the
corn-exchange; Mr. O'Connell presented to it the chair of the Catholic
association, which had been left in his possession; and the walls of its
place of meeting displayed in large characters these words:--"Scotland
has municipal reform; England has municipal reform; Ireland has been
declared unworthy of municipal reform." After Mr. O'Connell's arrival,
in August, the association was put into full operation. From him
proceeded addresses to the people of England and Ireland, the complete
organization of the justice rent, the appointment of committees, and of
a reporter on the election registry of every county, city, and town of
Ireland. It was resolved that officers, called pacificators, should be
appointed in every parish in Ireland. Each parish was to contain two
pacificators; one named by the clergyman of the majority of the parish,
and the other by the inhabitants themselves. There was, therefore, the
general association sitting in Dublin, holding its weekly meetings, with
its registry inspectors, and its agitating pacificators scattered all
over the country. It was to maintain this system that justice money was
required; and in general the business of each weekly meeting consisted
in announcing the amount of "rent" collected during the preceding week,
or in receiving more. There was talking at these meetings, it is
true, but the term business can scarcely be applied to the verbose and
unmeaning speeches in which the orators indulged. The usual topics were
the greatness and determination of Ireland; the demand for justice by
getting new corporations and abolishing tithes; the flattery of every
one who sent money to the association; and the abuse of those who
differed from the agitators in opinion. Yet Mr. O'Connell and his party
did not fail to stir up the evil passions of the deluded
multitude. These "thundering resolutions" were put forth by the
association:--"Resolved--That it is incompatible with the principles
of religious liberty that any man should be compelled to pay for the
ordinances of a church with which he is not joined in communion. That,
as under the present appropriation of tithe-composition, a tribute is
levied from the whole nation for the uses of the church of only
the one-tenth portion of the community, the people of Ireland are,
therefore, justified in demanding the total extinction of an assessment
so applied. That no settlement of the tithe question can give
satisfaction to the people of Ireland which is not founded on the
foregoing principle. That the people of Ireland be called upon not to
desist from all legal and constitutional means of redress, till they
have obtained full and complete relief from an impost equally
oppressive and degrading. That, in carrying out these resolutions,
the representatives of the Irish people should always keep in mind the
adopting such a prudent and wise course as shall enable them to realise
for the Irish nation the greatest possible quantity of good, and as
shall also enable them to support and sustain in office, without any
violation of principle, the first and only true and honest government
that has ever been known in Ireland." This call upon the peasantry
not to desist from seeking the abolition of tithes "by all legal and
constitutional means of address," by no means tending to diminish the
resistance still shown to every attempt to enforce the steps necessary
to the recovery of tithes, where a protecting force did not attend. The
process-server was still hunted; mobs still attempted to set aside
sales of distrained cattle; and now that the efficacy of the
exchequer-process, by merely posting notices instead of service, had
been felt, the writs of that court would have been equally set at
defiance by brute force, but for the power which they possessed of
compelling police and military aid. A scene of bloodshed occurred at
Dunkerrin, in the county of Tipperary. A mob attacked a commissioner
of the exchequer and his party, in the act of serving a writ, and the
bailiff was murdered on the spot, while one of the murderers was killed
by a shot from the police. Mr. O'Connell and the association demanded
justice for the death of the latter; but not a word was said on the
heinousness of his crime, or a syllable of regret was uttered concerning
the death of the bailiff.


FOREIGN RELATIONS.

{WILLIAM IV. 1836--1837}

The whole Spanish Peninsula was torn with political dissensions.
Revolutions and counter revolutions disturbed British relations with
Portugal especially, and prevented the execution of a treaty of commerce
which was looked for in England, as a benefit to both nations. England
sympathised too much with the faithless queens of both the governments
of the Iberian Peninsula, which had the effect of protracting the
disturbances which prevailed, and of exciting angry feelings against
England. The gallant men who as British subjects volunteered to
serve the queen 'of Portugal were refused their pay, and treated with
contumely and injury, just as the British legion in Spain had been used.

The relation of the Sublime Porte to England was also a source of
embarrassment, especially to the former country. On the one hand, the
pressure of Russia, jealous of her predominating influence, and on the
other, the efforts of Britain and France to counteract the exclusive
character which that influence was assuming, imposed on the divan the
necessity of giving satisfaction to all the competitors for favour.
During this year an English merchant of Constantinople, of the name of
Churchill, while shooting in the neighbourhood of Scutari, accidentally
wounded a Turkish boy. He was dragged to the guardhouse of Scutari,
where the officer on duty ordered him first to be bastinadoed, and then
sent to the governor of Scutari. The governor declined interfering, and
caused him to be conveyed to the office of the reis effendi, or foreign
minister, by whom he was thrown into prison. Mr. Churchill immediately
addressed a letter to the British consul, acquainting him with the
accident that had occurred, and the manner in which he had been treated,
claiming, as a British subject, the interference in his behalf. The
consul sent a dragoman to the Porte to reclaim his countryman, promising
to keep him in custody till the accusation brought against him had been
inquired into. This application was rejected; and the British ambassador
then sent his interpreter to the reis effendi, who promised that the
prisoner should be delivered over to his own authorities. Instead of
this promise, however, being observed, Mr. Churchill was thrown into the
Bagnio, and fettered in iron chains, by virtue of an order granted by
the sultan. The British interpreter again waited on the reis effendi,
and expressed to him the surprise Lord Ponsonby had experienced on
witnessing so direct and intentional an infringement of the treaties
existing between the king of England and the sultan; committed, too, by
the very individual appointed by the Porte to preside over their strict
and scrupulous observance. The reis effendi now desired one of his
officers to proceed with the English interpreter to the Bagnio, and
cause the detained merchant to be given up; but the governor of the
Bagnio refused to comply with the request, pretending that since the
prisoner had been placed under his care in virtue of a firman, he could
not release him without a written order from the Porte. Lord Ponsonby
now addressed an official note, stating that, as the minister of foreign
affairs had violated one of the most important stipulations of the
treaties existing between Great Britain and Turkey, he was obliged to
declare to the government that he would not any longer hold official
communication with his excellency, and to submit to the Sublime Porte,
and emphatically to declare to the sultan himself, his just complaint
against a minister who had dared to violate the laws of his own
sovereign, and insult the British nation. This step procured the
liberation of Mr. Churchill; but Lord Ponsonby refused to consider
this alone as any reparation of the breach of the treaties securing to
British subjects the right of being tried and punished only through the
agency of their own official representatives. His lordship insisted that
the reis effendi should be dismissed from his office. He insisted upon
this the more strenuously on account of the predominating influence of
Russia; for if the injured party had been a Russian subject, the Turkish
government would have hastened to make humble apologies, and would have
consented to give any satisfaction which the offended dignity of the
czar might have required. The Porte endeavoured to mitigate the demand
lay negociation; but Lord Ponsonby refused to accept of any satisfaction
which did not include the dismissal of the minister. As the Porte seemed
to think it below its dignity to grant such a request when merely made
by an ambassador, he said he would refer the matter to his government
at home. The British merchants, likewise, resident at Constantinople,
transmitted an address to Viscount Palmerston, representing the
necessity of supporting the demand made by the ambassador. They
remarked:--"We will concede that the first outrage was committed by
subordinate local authorities, whose acts might admit of excuse or
explanation; but the subsequent imprisonment was deliberately ordered
by a high public functionary, the official depositary-, in fact, of
the treaties existing between the two countries, one who could not be
ignorant of the privileges they guaranteed, and who was not ignorant
that in the instance in question he was grossly and intentionally
violating them. Considering, therefore, that the present is not the only
instance, although the most flagrant one, of personal violence offered
to British subjects, we cannot but see in their repeated occurrence,
more especially of late, an intentional infraction of the treaties, and,
indeed, the existence of some fixed design on the part of the Turkish
government to assume to itself a power of control in such matters which
it would be dangerous ever to concede." Before the determination of the
British cabinet could be known, the divan of Constantinople had resolved
to yield: the reis effendi was dismissed, with a monthly pension of
10,000 piastres; but it was on the pretence that bad health disabled
him from regularly attending to the duties of his office. It was said
afterwards, that the British ministry viewed the matter in a less
serious light than that in which it had been viewed by Lord Ponsonby;
and that they were not inclined to consider the demand he had made as
one on which it was necessary to insist. It is certain, indeed, that the
dispatches of the Turkish envoy ill London, subsequent to the dismissal
of the reis effendi, assured the divan of the readiness of the British
ministry to settle the controversy on conditions much milder than
those on which Lord Ponsonby had stated to be the only terms which his
majesty's government could consider proper reparation for the insult
offered to its dignity. It is also certain that the credit of the
British ambassador, whose successful firmness was neutralised by his
government, was greatly diminished at the Porte.


CHAPTER XLVII.

{WILLIAM IV. 1836--1837}

     _Meeting  of  Parliament..... Consideration of the State of
     Ireland..... Irish Municipal Corporations  Bill.....
     Question of Establishing a System of Poor-Law in
     Ireland..... Irish Tithe Question..... Question of Church-
     Rates..... The Church of Scotland..... Notices of Motions
     for Constitutional Changes..... Operation of the  New Poor-
     Laws..... The Affairs of Canada..... State of the Banking
     System, &c...... Consideration  of   the Foreign   Policy of
     England under the Whig Administration..... Motion on the
     State of the Nation..... Illness and Death of the King.....
     Remarks on his Reign, Character, &c._


MEETING OF PARLIAMENT.

{A.D. 1837}

Parliament reassembled on the 31st of January. The session was opened by
commission; and the speech of the commissioners referred to the contests
in Spain, and the recent events in Portugal. The speech also called
the attention of both houses to the state of Canada, stating that the
reports of the commissioners appointed to inquire into which, would be
laid before them. It further recommended to their serious deliberation
the provisions which would be submitted to them for the improvement of
the law and the administration of justice, and conveyed his majesty's
desire that they should consult upon such further measures as might give
increased stability to the established church. The revenues, moreover,
formed a subject of congratulation in the speech, and an early renewal
of inquiries into the operation of the act permitting the establishment
of joint-stock banks. The concluding topic of the speech was Ireland;
such measures as might improve the condition of that country were
recommended to be adopted. The present constitution of the municipal
corporations of that country, the collection of tithes, and the
establishment of some legal provision for the poor were especially
noticed as subjects worthy of their attention.

The address in the lords was moved by the Earl of Fingal, and seconded
by Lord Suffield. In the commons the address was moved by Mr. Sandford,
and seconded by Mr. Stuart Villiers. The debate that followed was
enlivened by Mr. Roebuck, who made a violent assault on the whole system
of ministerial policy. Sir Robert Peel referred to those parts of the
speech relating to the affairs of Spain and Portugal. His remarks with
reference to Spain were confined to that passage in the address which
expressed the satisfaction of the house that his majesty's co-operating
force had rendered useful assistance to her Catholic majesty. Whatever
opinion he might hold on the policy of the quadruple alliance, he had
always considered it our duty to fulfil the treaty so long as we stood
pledged to it. By that treaty we stipulated to give the assistance of
a naval force to the arms of the queen of Spain; and he supported the
address on the understanding that the aid we had given had been strictly
of that character. The distinction was important. The grant of a
military force might have supposed an interference with the civil
dissensions and party conflicts of Spain. Might not the precedent be
equally adopted by despotic governments claiming a right to support
absolute principles among their neighbours? where then would be the
peace of Europe? The next paragraph in the address illustrated the
danger of interfering in the civil affairs of other countries. We
express our regret that "events in Portugal have occurred which, for
a time, threaten to disturb the internal peace of the country." These
events are but the corollary of the revolution in that country in
1834, and which was then called in the speech from the throne "a happy
result." A consequence of this "happy result" is that we have now six
sail of the line in the Tagus. For what purpose? To defend the queen
of that country from an attack on the part of her own subjects; and to
protect the lives and property of the English residing there from
the danger with which they are threatened. In reply, Lord Palmerston
remarked, that, "when we stated that the effect of the treaty in 1834
was to put an end to the civil war in Portugal, we did not take upon
ourselves the responsibility of the government of that kingdom in all
future times, or undertake that it should be henceforth free from the
civil disturbances to which every country was liable." This might be
true; but if the last revolution in Portugal was the result of the one
which we had been instrumental in bringing about, then we were in no
slight degree responsible for its occurrence.


CONSIDERATION OF THE STATE OF IRELAND.

Ireland was still the cardinal point of our domestic politics. At this
time, in fact, Irish politics had acquired more importance than ever.
The state of that country was brought before parliament this session, in
a petition from the Protestants, setting forth the dangers by which
they were surrounded from the effects of the agitation which everywhere
prevailed. This petition was presented to the lords by the Marquis
of Downshire on the 28th of April, and it was the occasion of an
interesting debate on the state of Ireland. The topics insisted on,
however, were for the most part identical with those which had for
a series of years been repeatedly adduced in the commons, so that a
repetition of them is unnecessary. The debate unfolded one great fact:
namely, that the Protestant party were not behindhand with the Catholics
in the vigour and perseverance of their agitation.

Government lost no time in bringing the politics of Ireland before
parliament. On the 7th of April Lord John Russell moved for leave to
bring in a bill for the amendment of the Irish municipal corporations.
The bill differed from that of the last year on one material point only.
By the former measure the town-councils were not allowed to interfere
in the appointment of sheriffs, which was vested in the crown; but they
were now authorised to nominate or suggest a certain number of persons
for that office; the power of selection, rejection, and appointment
being given to the lord-lieutenant. Sir John Hobhouse made an
intimation, that the fate of this measure would decide that of the
cabinet; he asked of the party opposite, if they succeeded in throwing
out this bill and so coming into office, upon what principle they hoped
to govern Ireland? Was it by Orange, neckerchiefs and acclamations that
they expected to do so? They ought to be prepared to give a decided
answer to the question. Sir Robert Peel said, that he doubted the right
of any one to catechise his party on the results of a contingency.
The motion, which was merely for leave to bring in the bill, was not
opposed, and the two parties had therefore no opportunity of making
trial of their strength on a division.

The order of the day was read for going into committee on the reform
of municipal corporations on the 20th of February. Lord Francis Egerton
moved an instruction similar to that which he had brought forward in
the last session, to the effect that the committee be empowered to make
provisions for the abolition of corporations in Ireland, and for such
arrangements as might be necessary on their abolition for securing the
efficient and impartial administration of justice, and the peace and
good government of Ireland. A long discussion ensued and was adjourned.
On the following day Mr. Serjeant Jackson delivered a long speech, which
was chiefly directed against the government of Lord Mulgrave. Mr. Vesey
followed in the same track. The bill was supported, on the other hand,
by Mr. E. L. Bulwer, Lord Howick, and Mr. Roebuck. The latter asked
Sir Robert Peel this plain question:--"Can he pretend to carry on the
government of Ireland on entirely different principles from those of
Great Britain? Does he believe that, at this period of man's history,
and by the side of the most enlightened nation of the earth, doctrines
of government suited for the meridian of St. Petersburg can be carried
into actual practice? In a word, Does he believe that the system of
Protestant supremacy can be continued in Ireland without civil war?"
On the third night of the debate, Sir James Graham delivered a powerful
speech in support of Lord Francis Egerton's amendment. Mr. Shiel
followed, in a speech which was more personal than argumentative. Sir
Robert Peel deprecated this mode of conducting the debate. He had been
reproached, he continued, by Lord Howick for not having earlier seen the
necessity of yielding to the Catholic claims. Would the noble lord ask
of his noble colleague of the foreign department, why he was not an
earlier convert than he had proved to reform? Would he put the same
question to the head of the present administration? If it were blindness
in him not to foresee in 1825 the necessity of concession to the
Catholics, was not the blindness of Lord Melbourne as great when, in
1826, he even opposed the transfer of representatives from Penryn to
Manchester? Mr. O'Connell followed, urging his usual topics--the long
misgovernment of Ireland, and the necessity of the repeal of the union
as her only chance of obtaining justice. After a reply from Lord John
Russell, the house divided; when Lord Francis Egerton's amendment was
negatived by a majority of three hundred and twenty-two against two
hundred and forty-two.

Little discussion took place on the bill when in committee. The third
reading was moved on the 10th of April, when Mr. Goulburn opposed
the measure as pregnant with danger to the church, and tending by
its renewed agitation to place the two houses of parliament in an
undesirable situation. Another long debate ensued, in which the bill
was defended by Colonel Thompson, Lords Morpeth and John Russell, and
Messrs. Bulwer, Charles Villiers, and O'Connell; and opposed by Lord
Stanley, Sir James Graham, and Sir Robert Peel. The debate lasted two
nights; and on a division the bill was carried by a majority of three
hundred and two against two hundred and forty-seven.

The bill was introduced to the house of peers by Lord Melbourne on the
13th of April; and the second reading was fixed for the 25th of the same
month. On its introduction the Duke of Wellington gave no opinion on the
subject of the bill, but contented himself with observing, that it
was only one of the three measures relating to Ireland which had been
recommended to the consideration of the house in the speech from the
throne. He added, that, as he thought it desirable before the house
decided on the present measure it should have the other two before them,
he hoped the noble viscount would appoint a more distant day for its
consideration. Lord Melbourne objected to this, stating at the same
time that he could not see any necessary connexion between the three
measures. In moving its second reading, Lord Melbourne dwelt at great
length upon the good effects which had already resulted from the grant
of a similar boon to England. On these grounds he called upon the house
to accede to the measure. It was only a little to give, but a great deal
to withhold. The Duke of Wellington said, that he would agree to
the second reading of the bill, on the principle that the existing
corporations ought not to be continued. He would not, however, pledge
himself to consent to the present measure, to various details of
which he had strong objections. He would endeavour to remove these in
committee; in the meanwhile he could not but express his surprise that
Lord Melbourne should have again brought forward such a measure. Lord
Lyndhurst expressed similar sentiments. In reference to the surprise
expressed by the Duke of Wellington that the bill should have been
reintroduced, Lord Melbourne said the case was not a singular one; and
he reminded the duke that he had introduced and carried a measure to
which he had been opposed. Lord Brougham regretted that, from the tone
of the speeches of the Duke of Wellington, he was led to believe that
they would only throw away some five or six weeks of their time in
unprofitable discussions on the subject, and be left at the end of this
session where they were at the close of the last. This proved to be the
true interpretation of those speeches. On the 5th of May, when the order
of the day was read for the house to resolve itself into committee on
the bill, the Duke of Wellington rose, and moved to defer the committal
till the 9th of June. His reason for asking this delay was, that he was
anxious to see the result of the deliberations of the other house of
parliament on the pending measures of Irish tithe and Irish poor-law.
Lord Melbourne objected to the proposed postponement as inconvenient in
itself, and dangerous in the motive on which it was grounded. There was
no connexion between the church and corporation bills; and if the
house of commons should follow the example of the lords, and refuse to
consider one set of bills until the lords had passed another to their
satisfaction, he apprehended their lordships would not have the best of
the struggle. As for the appropriation clause, he denied, as his grace
had intimated, that it had been abandoned; it existed in the new bill
as strongly as in the former one. The Duke of Wellington replied, that
though he objected to much of the present measure, he was not adverse to
the establishment, under certain circumstances, of local jurisdictions
in Ireland. The Earl of Wicklow and Lord Fitzgerald made yet ampler
concessions than his grace; and the Marquis of Lansdowne argued on this,
that they assented to the principles of the bill; and that, therefore,
no further delay should take place in its progress. Lord Brougham said
that he drew no happy augury of the fate of the bill from the very
significant speech of the Duke of Wellington. He would not say any
sinister motive lurked in his proposition for delay; but if he was
averse to the present measure, as he appeared to be, why did he not
throw it out altogether? It was very well to talk of amendments; but
their lordships would so alter the bill, that the man who drew it would
not know it again. Although the different sections under the duke's
command might move by different routes, they would all meet in the end.
On a division the motion for postponement was carried by a majority of
one hundred and ninety-two against one hundred and fifteen.

Although the postponement decided on was for more than one month, there
appeared to be little probability that either the tithe or the poor-rate
bill would be before the lords by the assigned period for resuming the
municipal corporations bill. Under these circumstances, when the 9th of
June arrived, Lord Lyndhurst rose to move a further postponement of
the bill till the 3rd of July next. His lordship took occasion again to
state his objections to the measure. Lord Melbourne opposed the further
postponement of the bill; but on a division the motion was carried by a
majority of two hundred and five against one hundred and nineteen.


QUESTION OF ESTABLISHING A SYSTEM OF POOR-LAWS IN IRELAND.

A board of commissioners had been for some time busied with the
consideration of a system of poor-laws in Ireland, and in the last
session a report containing the result of their inquiries was laid
before parliament. This report, however, was not satisfactory to
government. They thought it desirable that some inquiry should be made
as to how far it might be practicable to introduce into Ireland a system
of relief based upon the principles of the new English poor-law. For
this purpose, Mr. Nicholls, one of the commissioners, was sent to
Ireland to prosecute the matter by personal investigation. The report
of Mr. Nicholls was very able, and on it government grounded the measure
which they intended to bring forward on the subject. This measure was
introduced in the commons by Lord John Russell on the 13th of February.
In introducing it, his lordship called the attention of the house to
that part of the king's speech at the opening of the session, in which
the establishment of some legal provision for the poor was recommended.
At the same time he laid on the table of the house a copy of Mr.
Nicholl's report upon the subject. In his speech, his lordship first
dwelt upon the benefits derivable to a country from a well-administered
system of poor-laws; upon its tendency to preserve peace, prevent
vagrancy, diminish crime, and establish harmony among all classes of
society. Having dwelt on this subject at length, Lord John Russell
then stated the leading provisions of the bill as recommended by the
commissioner. With respect to the expense of the system, he said, it
had been calculated that the whole average charge for each person in the
English workhouses, including lodging, fuel, clothing, and diet, was one
shilling and sixpence per week. If, therefore, we take one hundred union
houses, each containing eight hundred inmates, and suppose them all
fully occupied, the annual expense for the whole would be £312,000.

In order to understand the nature of the bill brought in by Lord John
Russell, however, it is necessary to give a brief extract of the
report made by Mr. Nicholls. He stated that he found the people almost
universally favourable to the introduction of a poor-law. But with
respect to the question of how far the introduction of the English
poor-law was practicable in Ireland, two difficulties suggested
themselves--first, whether the workhouse system could be relied on as
a test of destitution in Ireland; and secondly, whether the means and
machinery existed there for the formation of unions as in England. The
great principle of the workhouse system is, that the support which is
afforded at the public charge there should be less desirable than that
to be obtained by independent exertion. It would be impossible to make
the lodging, clothing, and diet of the inmates of an Irish workhouse
inferior to those of the Irish peasantry, and therefore this security
would not be found for the efficiency of the workhouse-test. On the
other hand, it is to be remembered that the Irish are naturally or by
habit a migratory people, fond of change, full of hope, and eager for
experiment. They had never been tied down to one limited settlement, and
consequently confinement of any kind would be irksome, and therefore the
test of the workhouse is likely to prove fully as efficient in Ireland
as in England. With respect to the' supply of local machinery for the
execution of the law, Mr. Nicholls considered that by making the unions
sufficiently large, there would be no difficulty of obtaining boards of
guardians of competent intelligence and activity. These might, he said,
be elected by the contributors to the county cess; but Mr. Nicholls
thought that, in the first instance, large general powers should be
vested in some competent authority to control and direct the proceedings
of the board of guardians, and, where necessary, to supersede their
functions altogether. He further proposed, that the same central
authority should be empowered to dispense with the election of the
first board of guardians, and to appoint such persons as it should think
proper to act in their stead. It was further proposed, that the
number of magistrates acting officially as guardians should not exceed
one-third of the elected members of the board; and that no clergyman
or minister of any denomination should be eligible to act as ex-officio
guardian. The enactment of a provision for the destitute at the
common charge, would give the community a right to interfere with the
proceedings of individuals, so as to prevent the spread of destitution,
and enable it to guard itself from loss and damage by the negligence or
obstinacy of any of its members. With this view, it was recommended that
the central authority should appoint, or empower the board of guardians
to appoint, one or more wardens or head-boroughs for every parish, who
might superintend the affairs of the district. Assuming the general
practicability and expediency of establishing a system of poor-law
in Ireland on principles the same with those of the English law, Mr.
Nicholls proceeded to consider the details of its application in that
country. It was proposed that all relief out of the workhouse should
be absolutely refused. Another point to be insisted upon, was, that no
individual of a family should be admitted unless all its members entered
the house. All relief was to be given by the orders and direction of the
central authority. With respect to the formation and regulation of
the local machinery, the report recommended that, as in England, the
appointment of guardians should be vested in the rate-payers and owners
of property in the union. A scale was proposed, by which the number of
votes possessed by an individual rate-payer might be raised from one
to five, as his rating increased from five pounds to two hundred. The
commissioners had proposed that the owner should pay two-thirds of the
rate, and that the remainder should fall on the tenant: Mr. Nicholls
thought that it would be better to divide the charge equally between the
two parties. It was not recommended to establish a parochial settlement
in Ireland, as the habits of the people were migratory: if a law
settlement should be established, it would be a union of settlement,
making the limits of the union the boundary. The simpler the conditions
on which this settlement was made to depend, it would be the better.
They might, it was stated, be limited to two--birth, and actual
residence for a term of years; but, on the whole, it would be better
to dispense with settlement altogether. One great object in the
establishment of a legal relief for the destitute would be the right it
afforded to take measures for the suppression of mendicancy. The present
state of Ireland, and the feelings and habits of the people, threw
considerable difficulty in the way of an immediate enforcement of such a
prohibition. The best method, it was stated, would probably be to
enact a general prohibition, and to cast upon the central authority the
responsibility of bringing the act into operation in the several unions,
as the workhouses became fitted for the reception of inmates. With
respect to emigration, Mr. Nicholls did not think it should be looked
to as an ordinary resource; the necessity for its adoption would be
regarded as an indication of disease, which it would be better to
prevent than thus to relieve. The source, however, would be one which
must be employed as a means of relief whenever any population became
excessive in any district, and no opening for migration to other
districts could be found. In the conclusion of his report, Mr. Nicholls
considered the nature and appointment of the central authority upon
which the whole administration of the new system would depend. He was in
favour of its being carried into effect by the existing English board,
inasmuch as the object being to carry the English system into Ireland,
it could only be done by persons practically conversant with its
administration.

Such were the principles on which the measure introduced by Lord John
Russell was founded. On its introduction, Irish members of all parties
expressed their satisfaction with it. Mr. O'Connell, however, though he
did not oppose it, expressed himself less sanguine as to its beneficial
results. The hundred workhouses which it was proposed to erect would
afford shelter and relief to eighty thousand persons in Ireland only;
and he asked, what proportion that bore to the mass of destitution in
Ireland? He objected also to the proposed gradual introduction of the
measure. They would thereby create a state of transition, during which
neither relief nor charity would be afforded to the suffering population
of the country. He disapproved, also, of that part of the plan which
confined relief and employment to the workhouses. There was no part of
Ireland, he said, which might not be made ten times more productive than
it was, and yet it was proposed to feed men in idleness in a workhouse.
The system of workhouses acted well in England, where a sort of slave
labour was adopted in them, to force the idle to seek employment
elsewhere; but what could be expected from it in Ireland where men
worked for twopence per day? Many expected that a poor-rate in Ireland
would prevent the influx of Irish labourers into England; there could
not be a greater mistake: unmarried men would still go to England; and
so would the married, leaving their families to be maintained in the
workhouse. The experiment, he saw, must be made; and, notwithstanding
his objections, he would certainly give every aid in working out its
details. Mr. O'Connell urged the necessity of extensive emigration on
the consideration of government; but Sir Robert Peel said that he
was not sanguine as to any benefits to be derived therefrom. The long
sea-voyage would always stand in the way of its adoption to any extent.
As to public works, to vote money merely to employ people, that would
only aggravate existing evils by interfering with the natural demand for
labour. Sir Robert Peel, however, was disposed cordially to support the
measure in its general objects; as was also Lord Stanley.

The second reading of the bill did not take place till the end of April.
The interval seems to have confirmed Mr. O'Connell in his hostility
to the measure. It was not his intention directly to oppose it--some
measure of the kind was inevitable; but his deliberate judgment was,
that it would aggravate, instead of mitigate, the existing evils of the
Irish peasantry. Those evils he ascribed to English misgovernment: the
distinct and direct object of the penal laws was to enforce ignorance
and poverty by act of parliament. For a century, the Irish had had
laws requiring the people to be ignorant, and punishing them for being
industrious. And what, he asked, were the natural consequences of this
legislation? He entered into a variety of statistical details to prove
that, with a less fertile soil, the quantity of agricultural produce
raised in England was as four to one compared with that of Ireland;
though, according to the number of acres under cultivation, it ought not
to exceed two to one. He then proceeded to read numerous extracts from
the reports of the commissioners, descriptive of the extreme misery of
the Irish peasantry. He described men as lying in bed for want of food;
turning thieves in order to be sent to jail; lying on rotten straw in
mud cabins, with scarcely any covering; feeding on unripe potatoes and
yellow weed, and feigning sickness, in order to get into hospitals. He
continued:--"This is the condition of a country blest by nature
with fertility, but barren from the want of cultivation, and whose
inhabitants stalk through the land enduring the extremity of misery and
want. Did we govern ourselves? Who did this? You, Englishmen!--I say,
you did it? It is the result of your policy and domination!" With
respect to the bill before the house, Mr. O'Connell ridiculed the
proposition of relieving the destitution of 2,300,000 persons by
building poor-houses to shelter eighty thousand at the expense of
£312,000 a year. The charities in Dublin alone amounted to half that
sum, and the farmers gave away in kind from a million to a million and a
half yearly. As for tranquillizing the country, Mr. O'Connell said that
the bill would not have any such effect. On the contrary, as all relief
was to be given in the workhouse, every man who was refused would have a
pretext for prædial resistance. The man refused would be the very man to
resent the refusal; he would go to others and induce them to adopt his
quarrel, and perhaps to avenge what he would consider to be his wrong.
In conclusion, Mr. O'Connell admitted that he was opposed to a law of
settlement, and also to a labour-rate: he thought emigration should
be tried on a large scale; and he was still an advocate for a tax on
absentees. However much he disapproved of the bill, he would not
vote against it: he had not moral courage enough to resist a poor-law
altogether. A long and angry debate ensued, which issued in nothing
practical.

The only point in the measure in which any serious opposition was
raised, respected the law of settlement. On the 12th of May, when the
order of the day was read for the house to go into committee on the
bill, Mr. Lucas moved,--"That it be an instruction to the committee to
introduce a provision for settlement, so as more justly to apportion
the pecuniary charges to be incurred and levied under the name of
poor-rates." Mr. Lucas suggested a particular scheme of settlement, by
which he conceived most of the evils attaching to the system as hitherto
practised might be avoided; but his statement of its nature and probable
operation was not very intelligible, and his motion was negatived, after
some discussion of the subject, by a majority of one hundred and twenty
against sixty-eight. The bill did not proceed beyond this stage of its
progress, in consequence of the demise of the crown.


IRISH TITHE QUESTION.

{WILLIAM IV. 1836--1837}

Another cardinal point of Irish policy remaining to be settled, as
pointed out to the consideration of parliament in the speech from the
throne, was the tithe question. This subject was brought forward in the
house of commons on the 1st of May by Lord Morpeth, who, in introducing
it, said, that it was the fifth measure which had been brought forward
in the last three years for the adjustment of Irish tithes. His present
plan was this. He proposed to deduct thirty per cent, from the tithe
composition, so as to make a rent-charge on the owner of the first
estate of inheritance, in the proportion of £70 to every £100 of the
tithe. By the bill of last year power was given to the commissioners of
woods and forests to collect the rent-charge; but this was thought to
make the clergy too dependant on the officers of government, and
they were, therefore, now allowed to collect it for themselves. The
provisions of former bills for the revising or reopening of compositions
were to be reserved. With respect to the regulation of the incomes of
the various benefices, Lord Morpeth proposed to adopt the scale of
last session, as recommended by Lord Stanley, with the exception of the
minimum of £300, which Lord Stanley had taken as the lowest point of
reduction to which the clerical income should be liable. The most
novel provision proposed was that which went to apply a portion of the
clergyman's income to the purposes of general education. Lord Morpeth
observed, that by a statute, the 15th of the 28th of Henry III., it was
enacted, that "every incumbent in each parish in Ireland should keep or
cause to be kept within his parish, a school to learn English; and that
every archbishop, bishop, &c., at the time of his induction should take
a corporal oath, that, being so admitted or inducted, he shall to his
best endeavour himself teach the English tongue to all that are under
his rule and governance." Penalties were laid both on the bishop and
clergyman for the breach of this statute; and the oath imposed by the
act was taken by all rectors and vicars. The question was, continued
Lord Morpeth, had this obligation been complied with? There were
2400 parishes in Ireland; and it appeared from the report of the
commissioners of inquiry into Irish education, there were only seven
hundred and eighty-two schools, the number of benefices being 1242, and
the amount of the contributions of the clergy £3299. It appeared from
that report, indeed, that, though there were many benefices in which
there was no school, yet the act of Henry VIII. was sufficiently
complied with by the annual payment of forty-shillings to a
schoolmaster. Attempts had been made to revise the act in 1767, and
again in the year 1806; but these were abandoned. Lord Morpeth now
proposed to raise a fixed rate of ten per cent, upon the ecclesiastical
revenues of Ireland, including the incomes of the dignitaries of the
church as well as of the parochial clergy; to take effect not on the
present holders, but on their successors. The plan of education which he
proposed was not to be confined to the teaching of the English language
only; it was to combine instruction in letters, lessons of morality and
religion, and that upon a national system, comprehending all sects
and denominations. Lord Morpeth, however, did not, he said, intend to
propose resolutions which would call upon the house to pledge themselves
to the whole of his plan; he contented himself for the present with
moving, "That it is expedient to commute the tithes of Ireland into a
rent-charge, payable by the first estate of inheritance, and to make
further provision for the better regulation of ecclesiastical duties."
The resolution was adopted without comment from either side of the
house; but when the bill founded on Lord Morpeth's resolutions was
read a second time, June 9th, Mr. Sharman Crawford opposed it as wholly
inadequate to the wants of the people of Ireland. He moved that the bill
be read a second time that day six months; but on a division his motion
was rejected by two hundred and twenty-nine against fourteen. The
decision on the clause for taking livings was deferred, and nothing
further was done on this question, the death of the king on the 20th of
June precluding all further consideration of it.


QUESTION OF CHURCH-RATES.

Government had for some time been occupied in framing a scheme for the
arrangement of the question of church-rates. On the 3rd of March the
chancellor of the exchequer brought this subject before the house of
commons, by moving that the house should resolve itself into a committee
for its discussion. In his speech Mr. Rice first attempted to prove that
the existing system could not be maintained. He remarked:--"By the law
as it stood at present any vestry has the power of refusing its assent
to a church-rate. Can it then be said there is, in fact, any fixed or
satisfactory mode of providing for the maintenance of the churches
of the establishment? Not only have they the power of refusing their
assent, but this power has been frequently exercised. In consequence of
the contests that took place in Sheffield on the subject, up to the year
1818, no rate has existed there since. In Manchester, in 1833, a poll
took place on a rate, which was lost by a majority of one out of six
or seven thousand votes. It is true the majority was set aside on a
scrutiny; but it has not been ventured to collect the rate. In 1834 and
1835 the same scenes took place; large majorities were polled against
the rates; those majorities were, on a scrutiny, declared to be
minorities; but the churchwardens did not dare to act on their decision,
or levy the rate that had been assessed. Can, or ought," asked Mr. Bice,
"this state of things to continue? If you depend upon the church-rate
for the maintenance of the church, can you depend upon the present state
of the law to enable you to enforce that payment? It is not sufficient
to assert that the law must be strengthened; if you wish to maintain
such a proposition, you must carry the house of commons with you. Can
you do so? I confess I should like to see, not the person, but the
party, however combined in force or numbers, who could come down to
this house and ask of parliament to grant additional power for enforcing
the payment of church-rates. They would soon find that they miscalculate
the character both of the legislature and of the people whom it
represents." Having thus stated his grievance, Mr. Bice considered the
remedy. He expressed his decided objection to the voluntary system; when
he could be satisfied that the army and navy could be supported, or the
administration of justice provided for on the voluntary principle, then,
and not till then, would he apply it to the church. He also objected
to a distinctive tax on the members of the established church, to the
raising of a fund from pew-rents, and to a graduated impost on the
benefices of the clergy. He further objected to the proposition brought
forward by Lord Althorp; namely, that a sum of £250,000 should be voted
by parliament, for the purpose of maintaining the fabric of the church.
His plan would be different from all these propositions. He proposed to
take the whole property of the bishops, deans, and chapters out of
the hands of those dignitaries, and to vest them in the hands of a
commission, under whose improved system of management it was calculated
that, after paying to their full present amount all existing incomes, a
sum not less than £250,000 might be saved and applied to the purposes
of church-rates. He proposed that there should be eleven commissioners;
five of high ecclesiastical rank; three high officers of state; and
three paid members of the board. He further proposed that in all
cases where pew-rents had been received, or where they could be justly
demanded from the rich, the proceeds should be collected, and placed,
in the first instance, under the control of a parochial committee, who
should be required in ordinary cases to apportion one-fifth of the whole
space in the church to free seats for the poor; in the churches built
under the church building act, one-third; the surplus to be handed over
to the commissioners. The sums received by the commissioners were to be
paid to the ecclesiastical commission, to be applied by them to
their specific objects. All visitation fees, and fees on swearing in
churchwardens, were to be abolished; by which regulation it was stated
a saving of £180,000 a year would be effected. A short and desultory
conversation took place; in the course of which the liberal members
expressed themselves satisfied with the proposition, while those on the
other side of the house intimated their distrust of the principles of
the measure.

The friends of the church soon sounded an alarm upon this subject. Three
days after Mr. Rice had made his statement, a meeting of fifteen bishops
took place at Lambeth Palace; and they came to an unanimous resolution
in disapprobation of the bill. The same evening the Archbishop of
Canterbury, on presenting some petitions against the abolition of
church-rates, expressed his feelings on the subject to the house of
lords. The principle of the bill was so unkind to the church, he said,
and so mischievous in its effects, that he would never give his assent
to its becoming law. This protest raised the indignation of Lord
Melbourne. He heard this expression of opinion on the part of the most
reverend prelate with sorrow and concern, not less on account of the
effect which it would have on the success of the measure, than with
reference to the interests of the church itself. He would put it, he
said, to the archbishop, whether there was not something of undue haste
and precipitation in the course which he had adopted; and whether he
was not put forward by those who had more guile and deeper designs than
himself, in order that his expressed opinions might affect the decision
of the question in another place? He thought it would have been more
decent if the most reverend prelate had waited for the regular time for
the discussion of the matter, and not have thus precipitately announced
his intentions with respect to it. He learned with affliction that he
should have the most reverend prelate and his brethren against him on
this measure; but this would not alter his course: considering it
as just in itself, advantageous to the church, and beneficial to the
community, he should persevere in urging it upon parliament.

The house of commons went into committee upon the resolutions of Mr.
Rice on the 13th March. The discussion was opened by Sir Robert Peel in
opposition. Lord Howick contented himself with replying on one or two
points in the financial criticisms of Sir Robert Peel. He was convinced,
he said, that the property of the church in land and houses was much
greater than was reported by the bishops and chapters, and was greatly
improvable under a better management; and he enlarged upon the evils of
the present system, and the absolute necessity of removing them for the
sake of the church. A discussion followed which lasted several nights.
On a division the resolution was carried by a majority of two hundred
and seventy-three against two hundred and fifty.

This was a small majority on a question which involved little more than
than the taking of the plan into consideration; ministers, indeed, were
evidently dissatisfied with the reception of their measure, for they
did not seem inclined to urge it through the house. Nearly two months
elapsed before the subject was renewed by them: a delay which was made
a matter of reproach to the government by some of its supporters without
doors, as implying an acknowledgment of failure on the part of the
authors of the scheme. The second reading of the resolutions was moved
on the 22nd of May. An amendment was moved by Mr. A. Johnstone to this
effect: "That it is the opinion of this house that funds may be derived
from an improved mode, of management of church lands, and that these
funds should be applied to religious instruction within the established
church, where the same may be found deficient, in proportion to the
existing population." Messrs. Baines, Hardy, Borthwick, and Horace
Twiss, all spoke against the measure. Sir Francis Burdett expressed his
regret that he was compelled to act against his former associates in
politics, but he could not support the measure. Mr. Shiel endeavoured to
make the honourable baronet refute himself by quoting extracts from
his former speeches on the same subject. He spoke, however, of the
honourable baronet in terms of the highest respect, as "a venerable
relic of a temple dedicated to freedom, though ill-omened birds now
built their nests and found shelter in that once noble edifice." On the
second night of the debate the bill was supported by Messrs. Brotherton
and Charles Buller. Mr. Johnstone withdrew his amendment; and on a
division the original resolution was carried by a majority of five only,
the numbers being two hundred and eighty-seven against two hundred and
eighty-two. This division was a death-blow to the bill: ministers did
not even attempt to urge it further in the house of commons. They were
still disposed, however, to follow up the inquiries which had been
suggested, into the present method of holding and leasing the property
belonging to the bishops and chapters. On the 13th of June, Lord John
Russell moved a committee "to inquire into this subject, with a view
to ascertain the probable amount of any increased value which might
be obtained by an improved management, with a due consideration of the
interests of the established church, and of the present leases of such
property." This motion was carried by a majority of three hundred and
nineteen against two hundred and thirty-six, although it was opposed
both by the church party and by honourable members on the part of
dissenters. Mr. Coulburn moved a resolution to be added to the original
motion, pledging the house to a specific appropriation of any increased
revenue derivable from church lands, to the extension of religious
instruction by ministers of the establishment. This was lost, but it was
only by a majority of two hundred and ninety-one against two hundred and
sixty-five. On the other hand, an amendment moved by Mr. Harvey, for the
abolition of church-rates altogether, was negatived by an overwhelming
majority of four hundred and eighty-nine against fifty-eight. These
divisions possessed some interest, as indicative of the different shades
of opinion which prevailed in the house on matters relating to the
established church.


THE CHURCH OF SCOTLAND.

On the opening of the first session of this parliament, Sir Robert Peel
had made the deficient means of pastoral superintendence in the church
of Scotland, the matter of a recommendation from the crown to the
parliament. His government did not exist long enough in power to carry
these recommendations into effect, and their successors were supposed to
be adverse to the subject. On being pressed, however, they consented
to the appointment of a commission, which should make inquiry into the
whole of it, and report the same to parliament. The first report of
this commission was not made till February of the present year, and then
government appeared to take no notice of it. Under these circumstances
Sir William Rae moved, on the 5th of May, that the "report should be
taken into immediate consideration, for the purpose of remedying the
evils acknowledged to exist within the district to which it refers,
by extending the means of religious instruction and pastoral
superintendence furnished by the established church of Scotland, and
rendering them available to all classes of the community." This motion
embarrassed government. Lord John Russell said that the general assembly
of the Scottish church was about to assemble within a few days, and no
doubt it was desired that they should have the ministers' refusal to
consent to this motion, to allege as a presumption of their indifference
to the interests of the establishment. He objected to the motion,
only on the ground that they had not yet sufficient information on the
subject to enable them to deal with it satisfactorily. The motion was
opposed by Messrs. Horsman and Oillon on more general grounds; and on a
division the order of the day, which was moved by Lord John Russell,
was carried by two hundred and seventeen against one hundred and
seventy-six: Sir William Rae's resolutions, therefore, were negatived by
a majority of forty-one.


NOTICES OF MOTIONS FOR CONSTITUTIONAL CHANGES.

Within the first week of this session, the notice-book of the house
of commons presented the announcement of motions for various "organic
changes" in our constitution. Mr. Grote gave notice of his annual
proposition of vote by ballot; Sir William Molesworth announced
his intention of moving a committee on peerage reform; Mr. Tennyson
D'Eyncourt promised to introduce a bill for the repeal of the Septennial
Act; Mr. Hume gave notice for the extension of the parliamentary
suffrage to all householders; Mr. Duncombe, of another for the repeal of
the rate-paying clauses in the reform bill; Mr. Ewart, one of an
address to the crown for the appointment of a minister of education;
Mr. Roebuck, of a bill for the establishment of a system of national
education; and Mr. Clay, a motion for the repeal of the corn-laws.

The motion for the ballot took place on the 7th of March. Mr. Grote's
speech on this occasion contained many specious arguments, and it
appears to have had a great effect upon the house. His motion was
seconded by Mr. Hodges, and supported by Dr. Lushington and Mr. Charles
Buller. The chancellor of the exchequer opposed the motion. He had as
much right as any man to complain of the effects of undue influence and
intimidation at his election at Cambridge: but he doubted whether the
ballot would prove a remedy for the evil. He thought the only way was to
let in public opinion upon the acts and conduct of individuals abusing
their power. On a division, the motion was negatived by a majority of
two hundred and sixty-seven against one hundred and fifty-five.

Another motion, referring to the exercise or regulation of the
parliamentary franchise, was that of Sir William Molesworth, for leave
to bring in a bill to abolish the property qualification of members of
parliament, which, after a brief discussion, was negatived. The other
notice which Sir William had given for a committee on peerage reform was
not followed up. The only motion relating to this subject was introduced
by Mr. Charles Lushington, who, on the 16th February, moved for leave to
bring in a bill for the expulsion of bishops from the house of peers, on
the ground that the sitting of bishops in parliament was unfavourable in
its operation to the general interests of the Christian religion in this
country, and tended to alienate the affections of the people from the
established church. This motion was decidedly opposed by Lord John
Russell, as introducing a change into one of the most ancient portions
of the British constitution. It was a motion not to amend, but to
destroy a part of our institutions. And where would such changes stop?
The conservative party seemed content to leave this question to be
debated between the two parties of their opponents; but when Mr. Buller
made some remarks on their silence, Sir Robert Peel declared that if any
unpopularity attended resistance to the motion, he was willing to put
in a distinct claim for his share. He feared he should not benefit Lord
John Russell by his compliments; but he would say that he had never
heard a speech delivered in a more manly tone than the noble lord's, or
one that did more credit to his judgment and abilities. On a division,
the motion was lost by a majority of one hundred and ninety-seven
against ninety-two.

Another motion connected with the reform of the house of lords was
brought forward on the 9th of May, by Mr. Thomas Duncombe. He moved
by way of resolution, "That the practice of any deliberative assembly
deciding by proxy upon the rejection or adoption of legislative
enactments is so incompatible with every principle of justice and
reason, that its continuance is daily becoming a source of serious and
well-founded complaint among all classes of his majesty's subjects."
This resolution went, therefore, to abolish the right of peers to
vote by proxy. Mr. Duncombe observed, that after the house should have
affirmed that resolution, he would move, "That a message be sent to
the house of lords, requesting a conference, at which the foregoing
resolution might be communicated. Lord Stanley and Sir Robert Peel met
Mr. Duncombe's arguments on the subject, by endeavouring to show that if
voting by proxy was absurd, the custom of pairing off in the commons, or
of coming in to vote at the division without having heard a syllable of
the debate, was open to the same objection." Sir Robert went so for as
to parody Mr. Duncombe's resolution, by drawing up a similar one against
the practice of pairing; and he concluded by recommending that they
should take the mote out of their own eye before they made any attempt
to extract the mote out of that of another. On a division, the motion
was negatived by one hundred and twenty-nine against eighty-one.

Mr. Thomas Duncombe's motion on the subject of the rate-paying clauses
of the reform bill was disposed of in a similar manner. He brought this
forward on the 9th of March, by moving for leave to bring in a bill
for the repeal of those clauses. Mr. Duncombe made no prefatory
observations; on which, the chancellor of the exchequer remarked, that
on so grave a motion he thought it much better that argument should
precede rather than follow the introduction of the bill. Mr. Duncombe
then said, that it was his conviction that the clauses in question
operated materially to diminish the number of voters throughout the
country. It was promised that the reform act should add half a million
to the amount of electors, whereas it did not give more than three
hundred thousand. The great reason for this was the want of punctuality
in the payment of rates and taxes, and the partiality shown by
collectors. The chancellor of the exchequer replied, that the
principle on which the clause was founded was one of the oldest in the
constitution; namely, that no man should enjoy civil rights who did
not discharge his civil obligations. If there was any unfairness in
collectors it should be inquired into; they were not appointed by the
crown. After a few words from Mr. Wakley in support of the motion, and
from Mr. Pease, who opposed it, the motion was carried by forty-nine
against thirty-eight. On the second reading of the bill, however, Lord
John Russell moved its postponement for six months, which was carried by
one hundred and sixty-six against seventy-three, so that Mr. Duncombe's
success was but transient.

Mr. Tennyson D'Eyncourt brought forward his promised motion for the
shortening of the legal duration of parliaments, on the 8th of May. The
terms of his motion were confined to a repeal of the septennial act,
without specifying any particular period to be substituted for the
present one. The motion was supported by Mr. Hume, on the ground that
seven years was too long a tenancy of a political trust. He thought
three years a better term, and one with which, he believed, reformers
in general would be content. Lord John Russell opposed the motion. In
private affairs a man would no more be disposed to trust his interests
to another, without taking account, for three 3^ears than for seven. The
septennial act at the time of its passing had been considered essential
for the security of the Hanoverian succession; but the preamble of that
measure showed that it was not intended merely for a temporary purpose,
it stated the object to be to diminish the heavy expenses of frequent
elections, and to put an end to heats and animosities. It was
observable, he said, that from the Revolution to the passing of the
septennial act, the persons who had the chief weight and leading
authority in the country were peers; since the passing of that act
almost every person who has possessed a leading influence has sat in the
house of commons. Mr. Roebuck desired a bill of this description, not
because it would lesson, but because he thought it would increase the
stability of the government, particularly if coupled with the provision
that parliament should not sit for more or less than three years. The
motion was rejected by a majority of ninety-one against eighty-seven.

On the 4th of April Mr. Ewart renewed the motion which he had made in
the previous session, for leave to bring in a bill, providing that in
cases of intestacy, or in the absence of any settlement to the contrary,
landed property be equally divided among the children or nearest
relatives of the deceased. He quoted Adam Smith, Gibbon, Bentham, &c, in
favour of an equal partition of property, and insisted that the system
of primogeniture tended only to foster all the harsh and selfish
passions of the human heart. The attorney-general opposed the motion.
Mr. Ewart's arguments, he said, if they went for anything, would bring
us to the system of equal distribution prevailing in France, which he
could not think a desirable consummation. The change proposed would
create great confusion in our law. The motion was lost by a majority
of fifty-four against thirty-three. Mr. Ewart had given notice of an
address to the crown, on the appointment of a minister of education;
but neither this motion nor those of Messrs. Hume, Roebuck, and Clay,
noticed at the opening of this article, were brought forward this
session.


OPERATION OF THE NEW POOR-LAWS.

From the last report of the commissioners of the poor-laws, which was
made up to July, 1837, it appeared that up to that period, of 18,433
parishes or townships in England, 12,132 had been united under the
provisions of the poor-law act. These parishes or townships contained a
population of above ten millions and a half; while the number of those
not yet included contained a population of two millions and a half.
In Wales, of 1049 parishes, twenty-eight only remained not yet united.
Those which were not yet brought under the new system chiefly consisted
of extensive and populous parishes, administering relief to the poor
under local acts; a few others united for rating and settlement; while
others were included in the unions established under Gilbert's act. The
report stated that the progress of the new poor-law had been made in
the face of much resistance, and under the pressure of difficult
circumstances. These obstacles, however, had not been so considerable
as might have been supposed. The opponents of the law had acted on the
principle of agitation; but they had failed to accomplish that which
they desired. The report further gave a very favourable account of the
practical operation of the law in the habits of the poor. It did appear,
in truth, that the new system had so far operated as to induce the
farmers to give permanent employment to a much greater extent than
formerly. On the working of the new poor-laws, however, there were
differences of opinion, differences which were illustrated during this
session on an occasion of a motion made by Mr. Walter, to inquire
into the operation of the act. On introducing this subject, he brought
forward a great many cases of individual hardship under its operation.
The terms of his motion were, "That a select committee be appointed to
inquire into the operation of the poor-law amendment act, and to report
their opinion on it to the house;" but he disclaimed any intention
to repeal the bill. Mr. Fielden, the seconder of the motion, was more
explicit. His object was, he said, to obtain the total defeat of the
obnoxious measure; he had voted against it on every division at the time
it was passing; he had attended meetings of the people preparatory to
resistance of its introduction into the county of Lancashire; and he had
openly declared that if it were attempted to establish its operation in
his own peaceable valley of Todmorden, it would be met with opposition,
of which he would be the leader. Lord John Russell, in reply, objected
to the inquiry; and he moved, as an amendment, "That a select committee
be appointed to inquire into the administration of the relief of the
poor, under the orders and regulations issued by the commissioners
appointed under the provisions of the poor-law amendment act." On the
second night of the debate, Colonel Sibthorp, Mr. Robinson, and other
members spoke against the measure; while Sir Robert Peel, Sir James
Graham, and the chancellor of the exchequer defended it. The latter
said, in conclusion, that the intention of government in proposing the
amendment was not to exclude any one topic of inquiry which was not
directly opposed to the principle of the bill; on which Mr. Walter
consented to withdraw his motion, and the amendment was then carried and
the committee appointed.

The committee began its inquiries immediately, and continued them almost
daily. Such, however, were the minuteness of examination to which the
witnesses were subjected, and the mass of conflicting evidence brought
forward on both sides, that the progress of the inquiry was but slow.
Mr. Harvey had been one of the members of this committee, but had
retired from it, "because it was all a delusion in its consequences,
if not in its intention." Before he retired, he adopted the course of
printing the evidence before it was reported, in a paper called the
_True Sun_, of which he was the proprietor and editor, by way of
appealing to the judgment of the public against the prepossessions of
his colleagues in the committee. This was made a question of breach of
privilege, and as such brought before the house on the 21st of April,
by Lord John Russell. The speaker had informed Mr. Harvey that it was
a violation of the privileges of the house, and the chairman of the
committee had given him due warning that unless he desisted from the
practice he should be reported. Lord John Russell, in bringing the
subject forward, pointed out the obvious injury to the public which
would result from allowing such a discretion to every member of a
committee. Mr. Harvey defended his conduct upon grounds peculiar to
the object of the poor-law committee. He asked, "Who were the parties
composing that committee? On the one hand, there was all the property of
the country, in every variety and form, aggregated to support a measure
peculiarly framed for its interest and protection. Who was the other
party? All that was pitiable and miserable in the land, sunken alike
by ignorance and destitution. How, again, were the respective causes of
these parties conducted? On the one side was one of the most active and
vigilant bodies of men, the poor-law commissioners and their assistants;
but who was there on the other to advocate the rights of the unprotected
and oppressed millions? How was the working man, chained as he was
to the soil upon which he dragged out a miserable being, to become
acquainted with what took place except through the newspapers? Such
publicity was the more necessary, when it was recollected that the
advocates of the law in the committee were as a majority of twenty-two
to four." Mr. Harvey's reasoning would have been sound if the committee
had been compelled to make a daily report--a course which they
subsequently adopted of themselves; but there could be no doubt that
it rested only with the committee or the house to determine that point.
Lord John Russell's motion was simply declaratory of the privileges of
the house in this matter which was carried without a division.


AFFAIRS OF CANADA.

{WILLIAM IV. 1836--1837}

Commissioners had been appointed to inquire into the ground of the
complaints which for some years had been alleged by the prevailing party
in the legislature of Canada, and by their friends and agents in
the British parliament. Early in this session the report of these
commissioners was laid before both houses, and on the 6th of March
the subject was brought before the commons by Lord John Russell. His
lordship declared at the outset that lie did not intend to cast any
censure upon the conduct of the house of assembly in Lower Canada. He
considered their course to be so much the same with that which other
popular assemblies had followed in similar circumstances, that instead
of an act of self-will, or caprice, or presumption, it seemed to be
rather the obligation of a general law which affects all these disputes
between a popular assembly on the one hand, and the executive government
on the other. The course of these controversies, he said, seemed to
impress this general lesson--that popular assemblies are hardly ever
wrong in the beginning, and as seldom right in the conclusion of such
struggles. They began with the assertion of right, and ended with the
establishment of wrong. His lordship proceeded to state what were the
demands of the leading party in the house of assembly. The first was,
that the legislative council, which had hitherto been appointed by the
crown, should for the future be an elective assembly. The second was,
that the executive council should be responsible in the same way that
the cabinet was in this country. By a third, it was exacted that the
law of tenures should be changed, without respect to the rights obtained
under a British act of parliament. Fourthly, it was demanded that the
land company should be abolished, with a similar disregard of the rights
required under the same act. Having stated the difficulties of the case,
Lord John Russell proceeded to propose his remedies. It was now four
years and a half, he said, since the judges had received their salaries,
and it was high time for parliament to interfere on their behalf. He
proposed to apply a certain portion of the revenue of Canada to such
payments as in their rejected supply bill of 1833 the assembly had
under certain conditions agreed to. The total amount of these would
be £148,000, and in so applying them they would simply be applying the
revenue of the colony for its own benefit. His lordship next proposed to
adopt the recommendation of the commissioners which had been sent out
in 1855, and exclude the judges from the legislative council; and to
provide that in future the members of that body should not be chosen so
exclusively from persons of the English race, but that alternately one
of French and one of British extraction should be selected. With respect
to the executive council, it was proposed that there should not be more
than two or three official persons among its members, and that the rest
should be selected by the legislative council, and from the house of
assembly. The privileges of the North American Loan Company were to be
preserved inviolate; a provision might easily be framed to prevent any
abuse of them. As the complaints made against the Canada tenures act
were in some degree well founded, it was proposed to repeal that act,
care being taken that the lights of individuals vested under it should
be respected. Complaints had been likewise made of the commercial
relations between Upper and Lower Canada: the upper province, by the
act of 1791, was allowed no communication with the sea, except on
the payment of heavy duties; while the lower province put various
impediments in the way of its commercial progress. It was proposed
that, with the assent of the legislatures of the two provinces, a
joint committee should sit at Montreal, composed of four members of the
legislative council and eight of the representative assemblies of each,
making twenty-four persons in all, who should have power to prepare
laws and regulations upon all matters of reciprocal intercourse. These
propositions were embodied in a series of ten resolutions, of the first
of which, relating to the payment of the judges, &c, Lord John Russell
then moved the adoption. These resolutions met with violent opposition
on the part of the Radical section of the house of commons. Mr. Leader
called the measure a coercion bill, and reminded the noble mover of the
rule of unlimited concession in government whicli his lordship had a
few nights before quoted from Mr. Fox, and desired him to apply it not
merely to Ireland, but to Canada. He moved as an amendment on the fourth
resolution, "That it is advisable to make the legislative council of
Lower Canada an elective council." Mr. Robinson said that the whole
of Mr. Leader's argument was founded on the modest assumption that the
government, and commissioners, and legislative council had been wrong,
and Mr. Papineau and the house of assembly as uniformly right in
everything that had been done. Mr. O'Connell warmly advocated the cause
of the Papineau party, whose sole object was, separation from this
country. He called for "justice to Canada." He remarked:--"Give them a
legislative council elected by themselves; place them in possession
of all the rights and privileges which as British subjects they could
reasonably demand; and then if they persevered in their opposition to
the home government, it would be time enough to think of adopting some
such measures as were now proposed." The Canadas, he urged, ought not
to be governed with reference merely to British interests: Great
Britain did not want Canadian revenues. Sir William Molesworth, Colonel
Thompson, and Mr. Roebuck followed on the same side of the question. The
speech of the latter was more violent than any of his party. Like all
the orators on his side of the house, he dwelt much on the example of
the American revolution, and on the sympathy and assistance the United
States would give to the Canadians if they should resist. He asked,
"What is the evil, and what is the remedy? You say, Great merit exists
among the public servants. But do you propose to prevent the recurrence
of that difficulty? Not at all. You pay the arrears. But who will pay
the servants next year? Do you believe that the house of assembly will
do so? You know as well as I do that the supplies will again be stopped;
the same outcries will be raised, and then, I suppose we shall have
another special commission, another delay of three years, another
evasion of the difficulty, another breach of faith. Distrust will
continue; exasperation will increase; their powers of resistance will
increase also; one effort will be made, and you and your shuffling
policy, your degraded government, your unworthy peculating and
mischievous officials, will be dismissed with ignominy and hatred. I
hear eternal talk of the evil consequences of stopping the supplies to
those official servants, and hear nothing in reproof of the legislative
council, who shut up last year all the primary schools in the country,
and left 60,000 children without instruction. All your regards are
turned the wrong way. You sought to make out a case of hardship to the
servants of the people, but turned a deaf ear to the complaints of the
people themselves. But I would ask his majesty's ministers, Have they
well weighed the policy of this measure, and do they know its inevitable
result? If not, I will tell them. The direct effect on the minds of the
Canadian population will be a determination as soon as possible to
get rid of a dominion which entails on them results so mischievous and
degrading. Every year will hereafter strengthen the feeling, and lasting
enmity and discord will thus be entailed on the mother country and the
colony--discord that will cease only when the colony shall become a
great, powerful, and independent community. The immediate effects of
this feeling will not be seen in open and violent revolt, but in a
silent though effective warfare against your trade. Non-intercourse will
become the religion of the people: they will refuse your manufactures,
and they will smuggle from the States. The long line of frontier will
render all your attempts to prevent this smuggling unavailing. The
people will refuse your West India produce, and they will view with
hatred your schools of unprotected emigrants. Impatiently will they wait
for the moment in which they shall obtain their freedom, and become part
of that happy, and, for our interests, already too powerful republic. A
war will be waged through an unrestricted press upon your government
and your people. In America you will be held up as the oppressors of
mankind, and millions will daily pray for your signal and immediate
defeat. The fatal moment will at length arrive; the standard of
independence will be raised; thousands of Americans will cross the
frontier, and the history of Texas will tell the tale of the Canadian
revolt."

In reply to Mr. Roebuck's declamation, Sir G. Grey, the colonial
under-secretary, appealed to all the papers on the table, to all the
instructions which had been sent out to the local government, and to
every act which had been done in pursuance of these institutions, and he
asked if anything had been done of which a free and independent people
had the slightest right to complain? Every grievance which had arisen
out of former misgovernment had been redressed: and now the house of
assembly took their stand on another ground, and declared that if the
constitution were not altered they would stop the supplies. The cry was
raised by the house of assembly in Lower Canada alone; the people of
Upper Canada disclaimed any share in it. The debate was adjourned to
another day, when it was opened by Mr. Hume, who, in a speech of three
hours' duration, impugned the whole conduct and policy of the government
towards Canada. Finally, the three first resolutions being simply
declaratory, were agreed to without division. The fourth, also, was
carried on a division by a majority of three hundred and eighteen
against fifty-six. This resolution was to the effect, "That in
the existing state of Lower Canada, it is unadvisable to make the
legislative council of that province an elective body; but that it is
expedient that measures be adopted for securing to that branch of the
legislature a greater degree of public confidence."

After this decision ministers expressed a hope that the opponents of
the resolutions would not throw any obstacle in the way of government.
Delay, however, was the object of the Canadian party, apparently in the
hope of giving time for a demonstration of popular feeling on the other
side of the Atlantic. The committee was not resumed till the 14th of
April, and then the fifth resolution came under consideration. This was
to the effect, "That while it is expedient to improve the composition of
the executive council in Lower Canada, it is unadvisable to subject
it to the responsibility demanded by the house of assembly of that
province." On this occasion Mr. Roebuck again opposed government, and
intimated that the loss of the colony would be the certain eventual
consequence of their adoption. At the same time he disclaimed all
interest in, or desire to accelerate this consummation. Mr. Roebuck
broached a plan of his own for the settlement of the dispute. Since the
house would not make the legislative council elective, he proposed to
abolish it altogether. The only useful power at present exercised by the
legislative council was that of proposing amendments on the bills passed
by the house of assembly. This office he proposed to transfer to an
executive council of twelve persons, to be named by the governor, who
might amend any measure sent up from the assembly, but not to have the
power of rejecting it; that would rest with the governor. The great
object of this scheme was, he said, to concentrate responsibility, and
to bring it to bear on known individuals; but it was plain that the
effect of it would be to bring the executive in constant and direct
collision with the popular branch of the legislature by doing away every
intermediate power. The other principal feature of Mr. Roebuck's scheme
was, the establishment of a general assembly at Montreal, composed of
delegates chosen by the houses of assembly of each of our North American
colonies, and clothed with certain judicial and legislative powers.
In its judicial capacity this assembly was to constitute the tribunal
before which the judges of the various provinces might be impeached;
and, moreover, might act as a court of appeal, and exercise the
functions now performed by our privy-council. Its legislative offices
would relate to all matters of dispute or communication between two
or more provinces. Lord John Russell remarked, in reply, that whatever
might be the merits of Mr. Roebuck's propositions, he had no authority
from the colony to make them, and therefore parliament could not think
of making them the basis of pacification, As for the threat that the
people of Lower Canada would, if their demands were rejected, throw
themselves into the arms of their republican neighbours, his lordship
contented himself with saying, that it would not be their interest to
act thus; nor did he think that the United States would be anxious to
seek a quarrel on this question. Mr. Robinson supported and Mr. Charles
Buller opposed the resolution. Mr. Roebuck again spoke in reply, and
complained that Lord John Russell was doing all in his power to insult
and vilify the people of Canada. He doubted, if Sir Robert Peel was in
power, that with his wary prudence and caution, he would carry out these
resolutions. The right honourable baronet and his friends, he said, were
silent on certain questions; they no doubt acted so that they might
come into office with clean hands. Sir Robert Peel said that he did not
desire to withhold his sentiments on this subject. In his speech,
the right honourable baronet took the same view of the policy of the
government that had been expressed by Lord Stanley. He observed, that if
no other, interests but those of the French Canadians were involved
in the question, and if the continuation of British connexion were
unpalatable to them, he would say, "God forbid that we should force it
upon them." In that case he should think it more for our interest than
theirs that the connexion should be dissolved. But he-doubted, if he
were to make the people of Lower Canada an offer of establishing their
own government, that they would be disposed to accept it. At any
rate the question could only be considered in reference to the French
Canadians: there was a British population in the province, which had a
right to look up to this country for a continuance of the connexion and
protection on the faith of which they had established themselves in it.
On a division the resolution was carried by a majority of two hundred
and sixty-nine against forty-six.

On the 21st of April Mr. Leader moved the postponement of the further
consideration of the resolutions, in order to give time to the Canadian
people to state whether or not they agreed to Mr. Roebuck's scheme for
the settlement of the existing differences between the province and the
mother country. This motion was negatived by a large majority; and the
house then went into committee on the sixth resolution, which declared
the necessity of maintaining inviolate the privileges conferred by an
act of parliament on the North American Loan Company. Mr. Roebuck moved
as an amendment, deferring all resolutions on the subject of the
land company "until an inquiry shall have been instituted into the
circumstances under which the land held by that company had been
obtained." The company found supporters in Lord Stanley, Sir George
Grey, and Mr. Robinson; and even Mr. Grote, and others of the radical
section, declined voting for the amendment. On a division the resolution
was carried by one hundred and sixty-six against six; and this closed
the discussion on this subject in the house of commons. On the 1st
of May the resolutions were communicated to the house of lords in a
conference.

The subject was brought before the house of lords by Lord Glenelg on the
9th of May, in a speech of considerable length, but which contained
the same arguments which had been so frequently urged in favour of the
resolutions in the house of commons. The resolutions were supported
by Lord Ripon, although he objected to the wording of the fourth
resolution, in which it was declared that "in the existing state" of
Lower Canada, it was not advisable to introduce the elective principle
into the formation of the legislative council. The inference from this
mode of expression was, that a state of things might arise when it would
be considered advisable to do so; but he could not acquiesce in
the principle under any circumstances. The only opposition to the
resolutions came from Lord Brougham, who objected to them entirely, as
well to the principles as to the policy of them. His lordship chiefly
dwelt upon the violation of the Canadian constitution by the advance of
moneys, without the consent of the house of assembly. Under the eighth
resolution it was intended to replace the £30,000 advanced out of the
military chest, to provide the means of defraying colonial expenses.
Lord Aberdeen remarked that Lord Brougham, who seemed so shocked at the
idea of interfering with the rights of the assembly, had himself been
a member of that government which made this advance; and the house
of assembly had designated it as a monstrous, and unconstitutional
interference, and had prayed that an impeachment might be instituted
against the noble and learned lord, and his late colleagues, for
committing it. The resolutions were agreed to without a division, Lord
Brougham alone saying, "Not content."


STATE OF THE BANKING SYSTEM, ETC.

At this time there was a general impression that there was something in
the constitution of the joint-stock banks, that imperatively called
for legislative interference. This, indeed, was one of the subjects
immediately pressed upon the investigation of parliament, by the
speech of the lords commissioners at the opening of the session. In the
preceding session a select committee had been appointed to consider the
state of the law in reference to this subject. This committee began its
inquiries in the month of May, and continued them till the close of the
session. In their report to the house, they stated that they saw so many
difficulties in the way of immediate legislation, and so many objections
to imperfect legislation, that they would content themselves with merely
recommending that the committee should be revived in the following
session. On the 6th of February the chancellor of the exchequer made
a motion to that effect, on which occasion he observed that he did not
mean in any way to anticipate the decision of the committee; but he
should be greatly misconceived, if it were supposed that his motion was
made in hostility to the general principle of joint-stock banks. It had
been suggested, he said, that the range of inquiry should be extended;
but he considered the subjects already before them were sufficiently
complicated and difficult, without the committee embarrassing themselves
with other and still more delicate matters of investigation. He should,
however, propose the extension of the committee's inquiries to Ireland;
and with that view would move the addition to its number of four Irish
members, two from each side of the house. Mr. Hume expressed himself
satisfied that the source of the difficulty lay, not in the conduct of
the joint-stock banks, but in that of the Bank of England; and he was
therefore anxious that the inquiries of the committee should be extended
to the proceedings of that establishment, and generally to the banking
system of the country. The conduct of the Bank of England, he contended,
should form a principal object of investigation; and he moved as an
amendment, "that there be an inquiry into the state of banking, and
the causes for the changes of the circulation since the year 1833." Mr.
Williams seconded the amendment, and urged that the Bank of England had
displayed a more reckless disregard of the interests of the country than
had ever been shown by any public body intrusted with the management of
its financial resources. On the 28th of December, 1833, the issues of
the Bank were £32,600,000, and their stock £10,000,000. On the 28th of
March, 1835, a reduction appeared on those issues of no less than four
millions and a half. Nine months afterwards of the same year, there
appeared an increased issue of nearly nine millions, being more than
one-fourth of their circulation. What was the consequence? Such an
advance in prices, that in September last the cost of every article
of import was raised from forty to one hundred per cent. This caused a
falling off of trade. Then again in January last the circulation of the
Bank of England was £31,000,000, and they had four millions to pay that
amount, being little more than half-a-crown in the pound to meet their
engagements. The directors professed to have discovered that the true
principle for regulating their issues was to keep gold to the amount of
one-third of those issues; in so doing they would be safe. But had they
acted upon that principle? At that moment, instead of having one-third,
they had only about one-seventh or one-eighth of their issues in gold.
Mr. Gisborne took a similar view of the conduct of the Bank of England,
and urged the necessity of an inquiry into it by the committee, if, at
least, any inquiry into the banking system was at all necessary. For
his own part he did not think it was; it would only lead to expectations
which it would be impossible to satisfy. The debate was closed by the
chancellor of the exchequer, who objected to an extended inquiry, and
on a division, the original motion was carried by one hundred and
twenty-one to forty-two.


CONSIDERATION OF THE FOREIGN POLICY OF ENGLAND UNDER THE WHIG
ADMINISTRATION.

There was no part of the conduct of the Whig administration which had
been made the subject of more incessant attack than that which related
to their foreign policy. This session the line of policy followed
by Lord Palmerston in reference to Spain afforded a subject for
declamation against him and his coadjutors in the government. At
this time British soldiers were fighting in that country without the
protection of the British flag, exposed to all the shame and hardships
of a disastrous and disgraceful war. In the midst of the public anxiety
on this subject, it was brought forward in the house of commons by
Lord Mahon, who had been under-secretary for foreign affairs during Sir
Robert Peel's administration. His lordship began by expressing a want
of confidence in government, and especially in Lord Palmerston: the
country, he said, had too long reposed a confidence in his exertions,
to which he was neither entitled by prudence nor success. He complained
that the public had been kept in a state of ignorance as to whether
they were in peace or at war: in his opinion it was a peace without
tranquillity, and a war without honour. The object of the quadruple
alliance had been to appease the civil dissensions in Portugal; not to
sanction the intervention of France and England in Spain. He did not
object to this, but he lamented the policy which led to the additional
articles signed in 1834, which stipulated for a certain degree of
interference. The Duke of Wellington, during the four months he had been
in office, had acted up to the spirit of those articles, as he was bound
to do; but Lord Palmerston had thought proper to proceed still further,
in suspending the foreign enlistment act, and allowing twelve thousand
Englishmen to enlist under the banners of the queen. Lord Mahon went on
to contrast our position throughout the peninsular campaign. The great
object had then been to drive the French out of the Peninsula, an object
which had been sanctioned by all our greatest statesmen for more than
a century and a half. Lord Palmerston had, however, departed from this
line of policy. Count Mole, the prime minister of France, said in the
chamber of deputies that "Lord Palmerston considered that circumstances
justified the co-operation of France; and that in March, 1836, he
notified to General Sebastiani, that it was his intention to land a
certain force of marines on the coast of Spain, and invited France to
join in that co-operation." At the same time he had offered France the
occupation of the port of Passages, and left to her own option the
mode and extent of co-operation. M. Thiers had, however, declined the
invitation. Next came the revolution of La Grunja, and soon after
that event, an increased force was sent to relieve 'Bilboa. More than
£540,000 had already been expended in the war, and all the accounts
were not as yet sent in. In Lord Mahon's opinion, the influence of Great
Britain in Spain had not been augmented by these measures; and in
proof of it, he quoted a memorial presented by the British merchants of
Alicant, complaining that their interests had been neglected; and that
while England carried away three-fourths of the produce of Spain, that
country took very little in return. To illustrate still further the
decline of our influence with the court of Madrid, Lord Mali on alluded
to a tax imposed on British subjects. "For the liberation of the king,"
originally levied during the captivity of King Ferdinand. This impost
had been kept up though the king was now dead. There were other
grievances of a similar kind: the only one redressed was a tax on
military quarters, which had been ceded to the English residents. Lord
Mahon concluded by calling Lord Palmerston's attention to the provinces
of Biscay and Navarre, which had been deprived of their legal rights and
privileges; and by stating that in bringing the subject forward, he was
not actuated by any partiality for the character of Don Carlos, or
any desire of advocating his claims on the crown of Spain. Mr. Cutlar
Fergusson, while he admired the moderate and gentlemanly tone of Lord
Mahon's speech, yet differed from his views. He defended the alteration
which Ferdinand had made in the succession, and which had been approved
of by the Cortes, while they looked upon Don Carlos as a pretender. The
question for the house was whether this country was not justified in
abiding by the terms of the quadripartite treaty. We had done no more,
he said, till Don Carlos had published the edict of Durango: after
that infamous act an important article had been appended to the treaty,
stipulating that arms and stores should be supplied for the maintenance
of the war, and, if necessary, a naval force. Mr. Gaily Knight also
dissented from Mr. Fergusson's views; while Mr. Fenton expressed his
disapprobation of Lord Palmerston's policy. Lord Francis Egerton said
that in his opinion we were not the proper judges of the value of those
rights and privileges for which the Basques were contending; if they
themselves held them dear, every Englishman must feel a sympathy in
their cause. Mr. Fergusson had admitted, that could we have foreseen the
failure of the Spanish generals, it would have altered the question
as to the policy of suspending the foreign enlistment act: were not
ministers culpable for such a want of foresight? Surely Lord Palmerston
and his colleagues might have distinguished between Spain in the
sixteenth century, when her troops were the first in Europe, and Spain
during the peninsular war. Had not Lord Palmerston been in office during
the war of independence? And had not its records taught him something
of Spanish generals and Spanish promises? At any rate, a glance at the
pages of a Napier, or a word from the Duke of Wellington would have
enlightened him on the subject. Mr. Cutlar Fergusson explained, and Mr.
Poulter protested against the doctrine which stigmatized the conduct of
government as intervention. Mr. Grove Price defended the character of
Don Carlos from the aspersions which had been cast upon it, but he did
not attempt to contradict or justify the fact that the Don had issued
the edict of Durango; and that, in virtue of the same, some English
soldiers had already been executed. He concluded with a tribute to his
virtue and magnanimity: so far was he from desiring to establish the
Inquisition, that his prime-minister, the Bishop of Leon, had spent his
whole life in writing against it, and had obtained a decree from his
sovereign for its abolition. This was denied by Mr. O'Connell, whom Mr.
Grove Price allowed to be a competent judge, because he was acquainted
with the Bishop of Leon. He added, "If it were supposed that Don Carlos
admitted Mr. O'Connell to his councils, then no English Protestant
gentleman would for a moment countenance the pretensions of that
sovereign."

Lord Palmerston ably defended the policy of government. He added, if he
could contribute to the establishment of the same happy things in
Spain as existed in Belgium and Portugal, he should esteem it a proud
satisfaction to the latest hour of his life. Sir Robert Peel complained
of the line of argument which had been adopted by Lord Palmerston. He,
for one, he said, openly disavowed all participation in the principles,
or sympathy with the cause of Don Carlos. He would not say that the
objects of British policy would be advanced by the success of that
prince; and he begged most distinctly to state that he wished to see
Spain in the settled enjoyment of a free and enlightened form of
civil government. His belief was, however, that the course adopted by
ministers was defeating its professed objects; it was obstructing
the cause of improvement, and was calculated neither to raise our
own character as a nation, nor to gain the affections of Spain.
Mr. O'Connell spoke against Don Carlos, dwelling at length upon the
atrocities which had been committed by his partisans.

Lord Mahon did not press any motion on the house, he being satisfied
with the expression of opinion that had taken place. Within a fortnight
after the debate the news of the defeat at Hernani arrived; and the
political opponents of government eagerly embraced this opportunity of
renewing the discussion. Immediately after the Easter recess, Sir Henry
Hardinge gave notice of a motion on the subject, which motion he brought
forward on the 18th of April. He moved an address to the king, "praying
his majesty not to renew the order in council of the 10th of June, 1835,
granting permission to British subjects to enlist in the service of the
Queen of Spain, which order in council would expire on the 10th of
June next following; and praying also that directions be given that his
majesty's marine forces shall not be employed in the civil contests now
prevailing in Spain, otherwise than in that naval co-operation which his
majesty has engaged to afford, if necessary, under the stipulations
of the treaty." The motion was seconded by Sir Stratford Canning,
who argued that the terms of the quadruple treaty did not justify the
interference which government had sanctioned. On the other hand Lord
Leveson contended that government had gained great credit on the
continent by the part they had taken in the affairs of the Peninsula.
Mr. Charles Wood defended ministers: it was not uncommon, he said,
for British officers to enter into the service of foreign powers. Mr.
O'Connell remarked on the eagerness with which the recent disasters of
the legion had been seized upon by gentlemen on the opposite side.
The actions in which they had clone honour to the British name were
forgotten: nothing was said of their victories; but not a moment was
lost in bringing forward their defeat. On the second night of the
debate, Sir Robert Inglis adverted to the imputation which had been cast
against his party--that they were the enemies of the church of Rome in
their own country, but its friends in every other--from its association
with despotism. He disclaimed any such feeling on their part. Mr. Ward
considered that opposition tried this question merely by the test of
success. Why did not Sir Henry Hardinge bring forward his motion soon
after the victory at Bilboa? This was the first time that he had heard
in the house of commons the misfortunes of an ally urged as a reason for
abandoning him. No doubt the legion had suffered a defeat; but not
such as to disable their continuance of the contest. General Evans
had admitted his losses; yet it was at this moment that an old brother
officer in arms had chosen to aggravate his difficulties, and to cast
against him the weight of his authority in military matters. In reply to
the imputation as to the motives in bringing forward the motion at
this particular time, Lord Mahon contended that he and his friends had
hitherto exercised the utmost forbearance on the subject. He contended,
further, that the country had a right to know whether there was any
limit to the expense which we might be called upon to incur: twenty
millions might be required by Spain; and did the treaty oblige us to
furnish that sum? Dr. Lushington followed, and endeavoured to show
that the naval co-operation which we had afforded was precisely that
contemplated by the treaty. It could not be supposed that the British
fleet was to encounter that of Don Carlos, and drive it off the seas;
the only object could be a naval warfare along the coast. He considered
the existence of the present government depended on this motion: if the
reformed parliament of Great Britain should now abandon those principles
of liberty and independence which they had hitherto advocated, the news
would be hailed at St. Petersburg by bonfires. Mr. Grove Price supported
the motion, and Mr. Shiel opposed it. The latter argued that the
government had put a right construction on the stipulations of the
quadruple treaty; and he entered into a long apology for the ill success
of General Evans, and for the excesses and insubordination of his
troops. With respect to the naval co-operation of the mariners, he
referred to their motto, _Per mare 'per terras_, as of itself setting
that question at rest. He continued:--"But it is alleged that the
measures of the government have not produced any good result. I ask
if those measures had not been adopted, what would have befallen the
Spanish people? Would not Bilboa have been taken by assault, and the
standard of Don Carlos at this moment have been floating from the castle
of St Sebastian? Or try the allegation by another test. Let me suppose
this motion carried. The courier that will convey the intelligence will
carry tidings of great joy to St. Petersburg, to Vienna, to Berlin; and
he will convey tidings of great dismay wherever men value the possession
of liberty, or pant for its enjoyment. It will palsy the arm of freedom
in Spain--a terrible revulsion will be produced: from Calpe to the
Pyrenees the cry, 'We are betrayed by England!' will be heard; and
over that nation which you indeed have betrayed, Don Carlos will march
without an obstacle to Madrid." In conclusion, Mr. Shiel said:--"I have
heard it asked whether it be befitting that in Spain, the theatre of
so many of their best exploits, British soldiers should give way before
bands of mountain peasants? I feel the force of that question; but there
is another which I venture to put to every man who hears me, and, above
all, to the gallant officer by whom the motion has been brought
forward: I invoke the same recollections; I appeal to the same glorious
remembrances, and in the name of those scenes, of which he was not only
an eye-witness, but a sharer, I ask, whether it be befitting that in
that land, consecrated as it is in the annals of England's glory, a
terrible, remorseless, relentless despotism should be established; and
that the throne which England saved should be filled by the tyrant by
whom your own countrymen, after the heat of battle, have been savagely
and deliberately murdered? Never! the people of this country are averse,
indeed, to wanton and unnecessary war; but where the honour of England
is at stake, there is no consequence which they are not prepared to
meet--no hazard which they will not be prompt to encounter." The debate
was protracted by another adjournment to a third night.

Lord Palmerston, who had been repeatedly called upon in the course of
the debates, at length arose to defend government from the imputations
of their opponents. The manner, he said, in which the question had been
dealt with by opposition was not fitted to impress other people with
a notion that their own convictions were very strong in respect to it.
Having made a few observations on the conduct of General Evans, on the
sufferings of the British soldiers, and on the atrocities which had been
committed, he came to the question of the quadruple treaty. Every one
knew, he said, under what circumstances, and for what purpose it was
concluded. The most superficial observer must have perceived that the
change that had been made in the accession to the Spanish throne, though
accompanied by every circumstance cf legality and regularity, yet laid
the foundation for a great revolution in that country. It was not merely
the substitution of an infant female for a grown man; out of that change
must spring a great alteration in the internal constitutions of Spain,
and a change too in the tendencies of its external policy. What happened
on the death of Ferdinand? A Spanish minister came to London to request
of the English government a force to assist in expelling Don Miguel from
Portugal. This was refused; but we said:--"Though we will not give you
an army, we will give you a treaty." Accordingly, we joined with the
three "great powers" of the west of Europe in one alliance. This was
the quadruple treaty; and such was its effect, that even before the
ratifications were exchanged, Don Miguel's army of twelve thousand men
laid down their arms, and the two pretenders abandoned Portugal. Then
came the escape of Don Carlos, and his placing himself at the head of
the insurgents in the Basque provinces. The four contracting parties
considered the treaty to be fully in force, and that it was only
necessary to prepare new articles in order to provide for the altered
circumstances of the war, which articles, however, should be considered
merely as complementary of the original treaty. The noble lord proceeded
to defend the manner in which those articles had been carried into
execution; and, in conclusion, he observed, that however skilfully
the question before them might be disguised, it involved no less than,
whether England should continue to fulfil her engagement with the Queen
of Spain, or should disgracefully abandon an ally whom she had pledged
herself to succour. But this was far short of the real and ultimate
tendency of the motion. The contest now waging in Spain was but a
portion of that great conflict which was going on elsewhere throughout
the world. The house had to decide that night between two opposite
systems of foreign policy. Even these were not isolated principles,
which might be taken or neglected by themselves: they were intimately
connected with, and affected also our domestic interests. The object
of the one party was to support Don Carlos and despotism; the other to
uphold Isabella and the constitution. Sir Robert Peel replied to Lord
Palmerston, reproducing the arguments and facts already urged; and the
discussion was closed by Lord John Russell, who defended the existing
state of our foreign relations, by contrasting it with that in which
they had been left by the right honourable baronet and his friends
in 1830, when they quitted office. On a division Sir Henry Hardinge's
motion was rejected by two hundred and seventy-eight against two hundred
and forty-two. The same subject was brought under the consideration of
the lords, April 21st, by Lord Alvanley, in a motion for the dispatches
of Lord John Hay relative to the affair at Hernani.

A circumstance occurred which brought the state of our relations with
Russia under the attention of parliament. A mercantile house, Messrs.
Bell, of London, had fitted out a vessel laden with goods for the
coast of Circassia. On attempting to land her cargo she was seized by
a Russian man-of-war and confiscated, first, on the ground of the
violation of the blockade, to which the Russian government had subjected
the whole of the Circassian coast; and, secondly, for an alleged
violation of the custom-house regulations established by the same
authority in the ports of that country. This proceeding of the Russian
government was generally denounced as unjustifiable; and the subject was
brought before parliament on the 17th of March by Mr. Roebuck, who moved
for copies of all the correspondence which had taken place between the
British and Russian government on this transaction. Lord Palmerston
entered into a lengthy statement of the occurrence; but the papers were
refused, on the ground that the question was still under negotiation.
Mr. Roebuck repeated his inquiries on the subject, when Lord Palmerston
stated that, upon a full consideration of all the circumstances of the
case, the government had come to the conclusion that there was no room
for making any further demand upon the Russian government. Another
matter, in which our relations with Russia were concerned, was brought
before the house of commons on the 22nd of March by Lord Dudley,
who inquired of Lord Palmerston whether any consular agent had been
appointed to the state of Cracow. Lord Dudley Stuart said, that in the
preceding session a motion had been made by the member for Lancaster for
an address to the king, praying that his majesty would appoint a consul
to reside in that city; and that the noble secretary for foreign
affairs had stated that it was the intention of government to make such
appointment, on which the motion for an address was withdrawn. *Lord
Palmerston admitted the correctness of this statement. It had been his
intention, he said, to send a consular agent to Cracow; but he had
since been induced to depart from his purpose, finding that greater
difficulties would attend it than he had anticipated. His lordship did
not state what those difficulties were, and the house seems not to have
thought it expedient to press the government further upon the subject.

A more important point of our foreign policy considered this session was
the situation of the province of Texas. On the 9th of March, Mr. Barlow
Hay moved for "copies of all correspondence which had taken place
between our government and those of Mexico and of the United States on
this subject;" stating at the same time his sense of its importance, and
the suspicions he entertained of the ambitious project of the American
government in respect to it. Lord Palmerston admitted the importance
of the subject, and its claim on the anxious attention both of the
government and the public; but he resisted the production of the papers
moved for, and on a division the motion was rejected by a majority of
forty-one to twenty-eight.


MOTION ON THE STATE OF THE NATION.

{WILLIAM IV. 1836--1837}

At this time the state of public affairs was such as to induce Mr.
Roebuck to bring the subject before parliament. On the 9th of June, when
the order of the day had been moved for the second reading of the Irish
tithe bill, Mr. Roebuck moved an amendment that the house should resolve
itself into a committee for considering the state of the nation. He
made some observations upon the extraordinary position in which the
representatives of the people were placed. Two bills had been sent to
the other house of parliament, but they were told that the house of
lords would not take them into consideration until something had been
done by that house to please them. He contended that there was no
government in the country: ministers were no longer in the position in
which they were at the beginning of the session. They stated then that
they would place their existence as ministers on the fate of the Irish
corporation bill. What had become of that bill? It was laid on the shelf
till the lords knew what that house was about. The other house virtually
said, "If you do not what we like, we will not pass your bill." What
good could be got from playing over the farce of discussing the Irish
tithe bill? Did they not know that if it passed that house, defeat
awaited it elsewhere. Ministers, in fact, were useless for good
purposes; and as far as the people were concerned, they were
mischievous. Mr. Roebuck's motion was seconded by Colonel Thompson, who
said that ministers had started with a large stock of popular energy in
their favour; but, in their fear of the boiler bursting, they had let
the fire go out. Like Spanish generals, they had always one eye in
their own camp, and the other in the enemy's; and all their efforts were
paralysed by their fear of being too successful. Their situation had
become desperate: if any event in the chapter of human accidents should
fall out to give them a reprieve, the only consequences would be, that
as they had dwindled, dwindled before, they would dwindle, dwindle
again. There was no stock of good luck which such conduct would not run
out. It was clear what was coming: the Tories must return to power. How
long they would stay there was another question; but their return was
a phasis, a phenomenon which ministers had rendered it inevitable to
go through. Mr. O'Connell eschewed the doctrines of Mr. Roebuck and
Colonel Thompson. It was his duty, he said, in the name of the people
of Ireland, to protest against his majesty's government being blamed for
not doing more. Government had the confidence and the affections of the
people; and whatever might be the opinions of others, he, for one, hoped
that they would long continue to occupy their present situations. Lord
John Russell, in reply, disclaimed any community of sentiment with Mr.
Roebuck in the constitutional views he had broached, either in reference
to church or state. He was decidedly opposed to the voluntary system,
and to the abolition of the house of lords. As for the doctrine of the
honourable member for Bath, that men of moderation and compromise never
succeed in establishing anything good or useful, his lordship said it
was, on the contrary, his decided conviction that to the moderation and
mediation between violent or extreme opinions on both sides, which
had been exercised by Lord Somers, and the great Whig leaders at the
Revolution, the country was indebted for all her subsequent prosperity.
In reference to Mr. Roebuck's reproach against ministers for not having
conciliated the dissenters and popular favour generally by adopting the
voluntary principle in church matters, his lordship said that such a
course would not have that effect: his own opinion was not in favour of
the voluntary system, and he believed that the people of this country
were, like himself, still attached to the established church. The
opposition, properly so called, took no part in this discussion, and Mr.
Roebuck's motion was negatived without a division. The discussion proved
one great fact, namely, that between the extremes of opposition, the
Whigs might for a long period maintain their places on the treasury
benches; but at the same time they could not but feel embarrassment in
a position which left them dependent on their opponents, now on the
Radicals and now on the Tories. Had it been possible for the two to have
united on any great question, the Whig ministry would soon have been
no more; but oil and water might almost as soon have commingled, as the
Tories and the Radicals agree.


ILLNESS AND DEATH OF THE KING--REMARKS ON HIS CHARACTER.

Ever since his accession to the throne, the king's health had in general
been good. In the course of the present spring, however, symptoms of
decline began to show themselves; and they increased so rapidly, that by
the beginning of June his situation became one of serious alarm to his
family. His majesty continued to transact business, but it was under
such oppressive weakness, that it was clear to his medical attendants
that his end was approaching. There was no active disease, indeed, but
a general languor and weakness, which foretokened dissolution. His last
days were spent in preparing for eternity; nothing seemed to give him
greater pleasure than the presence of the Archbishop of Canterbury,
who attended him, and from whose hands he received the sacrament. His
deportment at this solemn ceremony, as related by a church dignitary,
was fully edifying. He says:--"His majesty had already experienced the
blessed consolations of religion, and removed the doubts his anxious
attendants were entertaining, by eagerly desiring the queen to send for
the archbishop, seeming, as it were, anxious to ratify the discharge
of his earthly by the performance of his spiritual duties. His grace
promptly attended, attired in his robes, and at a quarter to eleven
administered the sacrament to his majesty and the queen, Lady Mary Fox
communicating at the same time. The king was very calm and collected;
his faculties were quite clear, and he paid the greatest attention to
the service, following it in the prayer-book, which lay on the table
before him. His voice indeed failed, but his humble demeanour and
uplifted eyes gave expression to the feeling of devotion and of
gratitude to the Almighty which his faltering lips refused to utter. The
performance of this act of religion, and this public attestation of his
communion with that church, for the welfare and prosperity of which
he had more than once during his illness ejaculated short but fervent
prayers, was the source of great and manifest comfort to his majesty.
Though the shorter form had been adopted by the archbishop, his majesty
was nevertheless rather exhausted by the duration and solemnity of the
ceremony; but as his grace retired, the king said, with that peculiar
kindness of manner by which he was so much distinguished, and at the
same time gently moving his hand and inclining his head, 'God bless you!
a thousand, thousand thanks!' There cannot be more certain evidence of
the inward strength and satisfaction which the king derived from this
office of religion than that, in spite of great physical exertion, his
majesty, after the lapse of an hour, again requested the attendance of
the archbishop, who, in compliance with the wishes of the queen, read
the prayer for the evening service, with the happiest effect on the
king's spirits. This being done, the archbishop, naturally fearing the
consequences of so much mental exertion on his majesty's debilitated
frame, was about to retire, when the king motioned him to sit down at
the table, on the opposite side of which he himself was seated. His
majesty was too weak to hold any conversation, but his spirits seemed
soothed and comforted by the presence of the archbishop, on whose
venerable, benign countenance his majesty's eye reposed with real
pleasure. The king at this interview stretched his hand across the
table, and taking that of the archbishop, pressed it fervently, saying
in a tone of voice which was only audible to the queen, who was seated
near his majesty, 'I am sure the archbishop is one of those persons
who pray for me.' The afternoon of this day witnessed a still further
diminution of his majesty's strength; but in proportion to the decay
of his bodily power, was the increase of his spiritual hope and
consolation. At nine o'clock in the evening the archbishop was again
summoned by his majesty's desire. The king was now still less able to
converse than on the last occasion; but his grace remained more than
three quarters of an hour, supplying by his presence the same comfort
to the king, and receiving from his majesty the same silent though
expressive proof of his satisfaction and gratitude. At length, on the
suggestion of the queen that it was already late, and the archbishop
might become fatigued, the king immediately signified his assent that he
should retire; and crossing his hands upon his breast, and inclining
his head, said, as his grace left the room, 'God bless thee, dear,
excellent, worthy man! a thousand, thousand thanks!'" This was on
Sunday, the 18th of June, the anniversary of the battle of Waterloo,
which the king remembered, expressing his desire that the Duke of
Wellington should hold his usual banquet on the morrow. That was the day
on which his majesty breathed his last. He had spent a tranquil night,
but no corresponding effect was produced upon his health. Decaying
nature could no longer be recruited by ordinary sources of strength and
sustenance. His majesty rose at seven o'clock, for during his illness
he had not been wholly confined to his bed, but there was much in his
language and manner which bespoke his sense of approaching death. "I
shall get up once more," he said to the queen, "to do the business of
the country." After joining in the service for the visitation of the
sick, performed by the Archbishop of Canterbury, in which his majesty's
demeanour was characterised by the most genuine spirit of devotion. Sir
Herbert Taylor was summoned, and was directed to get all things ready.
As it was Monday, however, there were no papers, and consequently there
was no business to transact. In the evening the archbishop visited his
majesty for the last time: at half-past ten the king was seized with a
fainting fit, on which he was removed into his bed, and from this time
his voice was not heard, except to pronounce the name of his valet. In
less than an hour death reigned in the palace of the English monarchs.
His majesty expired without a struggle, and without a groan, the queen
kneeling at the bedside and still affectionately holding his hand,
unwilling to believe the reality of the sad event. "Thus expired, in
the seventy-third year of his age, in firm reliance on the merits of his
Redeemer, King William IV., a just and upright king, a forgiving enemy,
a sincere friend, and a most gracious and indulgent master."

Few monarchs, indeed, have possessed the love of their subjects in
a greater degree than King William IV. By the common consent of all
parties he had the welfare of his country truly at heart. There was but
one opinion of his character, and that was expressive of his kindness
and amiability. He does not appear to have had a personal enemy in the
world, although he sanctioned measures to which a large section of the
community were inimical: this is praise as singular as it is high when
applied to a king. His intellectual faculties may not have been of a
superior order; but he had what more than counterbalanced this defect--a
heart which beat high with love for his country.


CONTINUATION

OF

THE HISTORY OF ENGLAND,


By E. H. Nolan


CHAPTER XLVIII.

{VICTORIA. 1837--1838}

     The Accession of Queen Victoria..... The Queen's Message to
     both Houses: Eulogies of the late Sovereign in both Houses
     of Parliament..... Bill for providing the Succession to the
     Crown..... The Budget, &c...... Alterations in the Criminal
     Law, &c...... Prorogation of Parliament..... State of
     Parties and Elections..... City Banquet to the Queen.....
     Opening of the New Parliament..... The Subject of the Civil
     List debated..... The Subject of the Pension List.....
     Intelligence from Canada:   Discussion on the Subject.....
     Adjournment of the House..... State of the Continent


THE ACCESSION OF QUEEN VICTORIA.

{A.D. 1837}

On the arrival of the news in town of the death of King William,
orders were immediately issued for summoning a privy-council, which was
assembled before noon on Tuesday, at the palace of Kensington. At this
council directions were given for proclaiming Queen Victoria, and the
act of allegiance was signed by all present, the first name on the list
being that of "Ernest, King of Hanover." When the ceremony of signing
the act of allegiance had been performed, the queen made the following
declaration to the country:--"The severe and afflicting loss which the
nation has sustained by the death of his majesty, my beloved uncle,
has devolved upon me the duty of administering the government of this
empire. This awful responsibility is imposed upon me so suddenly, and
at so early a period of my life, that I should feel myself utterly
oppressed by the burden, were I not sustained by the hope that Divine
Providence, which has called me to this work, will give me strength
for the performance of it: and that I shall find in the purity of my
intentions, and in my zeal for the public welfare, that support and
those resources which usually belong to a more mature age, and to long
experience. I place my firm reliance on the wisdom of parliament, and
upon the loyalty and affection of my people. I esteem it also a peculiar
advantage, that I succeed to a sovereign whose constant regards for the
rights and liberties of his subjects, and whose desire to promote the
amelioration of the laws and institutions of the country, have rendered
his name the object of general attachment and veneration. Educated in
England, under the tender and enlightened care of a most affectionate
mother, I have learned from my infancy to respect and love the
constitution of my native country. It will be my unceasing study to
maintain the reformed religion as by law established, securing at the
same time to all the full enjoyment of religious liberty. And I shall
steadily protect the rights, and promote to the utmost of my power the
happiness and welfare of all classes of my subjects." On this occasion
her majesty is described as displaying extraordinary self-possession:
the dignified composure and firmness of voice with which she pronounced
the above declaration were indeed a theme of admiration with those who
were present at the scene. Thus commenced the reign of Queen Victoria
over the United Kingdoms of Great Britain and Ireland.

One effect of the descent of the crown to a female was the separation
from it of Hanover, after an union which had lasted for nearly a century
and a quarter. This abscission of territory, however, was scarcely
noticed; it hardly called forth an observation in the newspapers, much
less an expression of regret--a proof of the little value attached in
this country to foreign dominion as a source of wealth or strength.


THE QUEEN'S MESSAGE TO BOTH HOUSES--EULOGIES OF THE LATE SOVEREIGN IN
BOTH HOUSES OF PARLIAMENT.

On the news of the death of the king both houses of parliament were
immediately summoned to meet. On that and the following day, however,
the administration of the oath of allegiance to the members, formed the
only business transacted. On Thursday, the 22nd, Lord Melbourne brought
the following message from the queen to the house of lords:--"Victoria
Regina. The queen entertains the fullest confidence that the house of
lords will participate in the deep affliction which her majesty feels
in the death of the late king, whose constant desire to promote the
interests, to maintain the liberties, and to improve the laws and
institutions of the country, must ensure for his name and memory the
dutiful and affectionate respect of all her majesty's subjects. The
present state of public business, and the period of the session, when
considered in connection with the law which imposes on her majesty the
duty of summoning a new parliament within a limited time, renders it
inexpedient in the judgment of her majesty, that any new measures should
be recommended for your adoption, with the exception of such as may
be requisite for carrying on the public service from the close of
the present session to the meeting of the new parliament." Upon this
occasion the leaders of all parties in parliament expressed their strong
sense of the sterling and amiable qualities of the departed monarch.
Lord Melbourne lamented the loss of a most gracious master, and
said that the world had lost a man of the best intentions, the most
uncompromising honour, and the strictest integrity. After adverting
to the naval education of the late king, to the part which he had
occasionally taken in the debates of that house, Lord Melbourne moved
an address of condolence to her majesty upon the death of the late king,
and of congratulation upon her accession to the throne. This was carried
unanimously. Another proposition also was carried with unanimity, to the
effect that an address of condolence be sent to her majesty the
queen dowager, assuring her majesty of the sympathy which the house
entertained for her loss. Lord John Russell brought the same message to
the commons, moving a similar address in reply.


BILL FOR PROVIDING THE SUCCESSION TO THE CROWN.

A bill for providing for the contingency of another demise of the crown
was brought into the upper house by the lord chancellor on the 3rd
of July. Its object was to make provision for the carrying on of the
executive government, in such an event, during the possible absence of
the heir presumptive from the country. The bill provided that certain
great officers of state, namely, the Archbishop of Canterbury, the
lord-chancellor, the lord-treasurer, the president of the council, the
lord privy seal, the lord high admiral, and the chief-justice of
the Queen's Bench at the time being respectively, should act as
lords-justices, to exercise all the powers and authorities of the
successor of the crown, as a king would exercise them at present, until
his arrival in the kingdom, or until he should otherwise order. The bill
also provided that the heir presumptive to the throne might at any time
deposit a list--which list was revocable at pleasure--of such persons as
he might appoint to act with such justices, and to be considered as part
of them; and the persons named in that list were to exercise, in common
with the lords already named, the functions of royalty, until the
successor to the throne should otherwise determine. By another provision
in the bill, however, the powers of the lords-justices were restricted
to those only which were necessary to carry on the government of the
country. They were not to have the power of dissolving parliament; nor
of creating peers; nor of giving the royal assent to any bill altering
the succession to the throne; or for changing the established religion
of England, Scotland, or Ireland. The bill passed almost unanimously
through both houses of parliament, Lord Brougham only urging an
objection against the omission of any portion of the royal family in the
lists of lords-justices named in the bill. His lordship even made this
omission the subject of a protest entered in the journals of the house.
His lordship began at this time to display an obstructive disposition
towards the government with which he had so long acted. He had proved
that his exaltation to the office of lord-chancellor had inflated
his vanity, and made him so self-willed and crotchetty as to render
co-operation with him either in the government of the country, or in
conducting bills through the legislature, next to impossible.


THE BUDGET, ETC.

On the 30th of June the chancellor of the exchequer made his yearly
financial statement. After adverting to the embarrassments which had
beset the commerce of the country since the close of the preceding
session, he proceeded to state the actual income and expenditure of the
country, as compared with the estimate he had formed of its probable
amount in the course of the last session. He had calculated, he said,
that the customs would produce £20,540,000; the actual receipt was
£21,445,000; the excise he had taken at £14,150,000; the actual income
was, £14,439,000: the stamps he had calculated at £7,000,000; the
receipts were £7,100,000: the assessed taxes he estimated at £3,575,000;
they produced £3,681,000: the post-office revenue he had reckoned at
£1,450,000; it amounted to £1,618,000. On the whole the income, which
on the data then before him he had calculated at £46,980,000, produced
£48,453,000. Mr. Rice then proceeded to state the expenditure, with
reference to which he had fortunately, he said, rather under than
over-estimated the probable income for the present year, as otherwise
government would have become embarrassed. He had taken the interest
on the funded debt at £28,528,000; the actual payment was £28,537,000:
other charges upon the consolidated fund, exclusive of the West India
slave-compensation, he took at £2,092,000; the actual charge was
£2,183,000. With respect to the army, navy, ordnance, and miscellaneous
estimates of the year, he had taken them at £14,585, but that estimate
was taken before all the supplies of the year were voted: the sum
actually required was £14,652,000. The estimated expenditure for the
whole year, exclusive of the West India slave-compensation fund, was
£45,205,000; the actual expenditure was £45,372,000. With respect to the
West India loan, Mr. Rice said that he had reckoned we might be called
upon to pay annually a sum of £1,111,000; but the call had on that score
amounted to £1,448,342. The chancellor of the exchequer next proceeded
to make several statements illustrative of the financial and commercial
state of the country. He dwelt especially on the excess of the amount
of tea duty in the last year over that received in former years, and
observed that it was apparent that without any change of duty, the
consumption of that article was increasing. Mr. Rice took the estimates
for the year as follows:--the army, navy, ordnance, and miscellaneous,
£14,895,000; and the charges upon the consolidated fund, and the
interest upon the funded and unfunded debt which it was necessary to
provide for the current year, £30,890,000. Thus the total expenditure
for the current year was calculated at £45,786,000; but that was
exclusive of the West India compensation, the amount of which would be
£845,000. With respect to the probable amount of the income, Mr. Rice
calculated it might amount in the whole to £47,240,000, which would
leave a surplus of £1,454,000. When the interest of the West Indian
loan, however, was deducted, the surplus would be diminished to
£608,585; and that sum would be reduced by the payment necessary to be
made to meet various deficiencies of former years; in fact, all the net
surplus upon which they could calculate was £384,673. In conclusion, Mr.
Rice made some observations on the increased interest now payable on
the unfunded debt of the country, and on the general prospects of the
nation. On the latter subject, he observed, that he had before him the
means of showing that within the last two or three weeks the elements
of improvement had been developing themselves in various parts, and
that many of the most depressed branches of trade and manufactures were
rapidly reviving. As a natural consequence of this the receipts of the
revenue were improving, and the condition of the country was such as
to inspire him with confidence. A reduction of taxation, he said, would
materially assist that revival. He inferred this from the experiment
he had made of lowering the duty on various articles of consumption,
especially in the instances of glass and paper. The trade in these
articles was now rapidly increasing; but with the present small balance
of income on hand, it was impossible for him to propose any speculative
reduction of taxation. A conversation followed this statement of the
chancellor of the exchequer, and several members proposed various
economical nostrums for the benefit of the country, but none of them met
with the approbation of the house.


ALTERATIONS IN THE CRIMINAL LAW, ETC.

In 1833, a royal commission had been issued for the purpose of inquiring
how far it might be expedient to reduce the written and unwritten law of
the country into one digest, and to report on the best manner of
doing it. A report was made on this subject in 1834; and while the
commissioners were occupied in carrying, in some degree, their own
recommendations in respect of it into effect, they were further called
upon by government to state their opinions on the subject of the
employment of counsel by prisoners, and on the punishment of death. In
their second report, which was made in 1836, at great length, this was
done, and one result was the bill which was passed in the preceding
session, for allowing the assistance of counsel to prisoners in criminal
cases. A more important result, however, was the introduction in the
present session of a series of bills, having for their object the
abolition in many instances of capital punishment. This subject had been
brought before the house of commons on the 23rd of March by Lord John
Russell, who argued that, if it were thought right that a change should
take place in the law of the land on this head, it should be delayed as
little as possible. Lord John Russell began by discussing the general
doctrines advanced by Paley on the use of severity in criminal
punishments, after which he gave some statistical details of capital
condemnations in former years. He argued from these details that such a
state of things gave a character of great uncertainty to the operation
of the law, and rendered it less calculated to inspire that salutary
dread in offenders which was the object of criminal punishment. His
lordship proceeded to contend that there was no reason to apprehend
an increase of crime from the abolition of the punishment of death in
certain offences. He instanced the crime of forgery, which, with the
exception of the cases of the forgery of powers of attorney and of
bills, was now only punishable by transportation. The number of persons
committed for this offence in the three years previous to 1833, was one
hundred and fifty-five; and in the three following years two hundred and
ten. In the first instance only fifty-eight per cent, were convicted;
in the latter period the number convicted was seventy-one per cent.
From this it appeared that there was no great increase in the number of
offences, while the number of convictions was materially increased.
The reason of this last effect of the present, criminal law was to be
ascribed to the diminished reluctance to prosecute now that the offence
was no longer capital. His lordship here stated that in a recent case
a man had been tried and convicted of forging a power of attorney. That
offence was yet capital; but previously to the case coming before the
king in council, the secretary of state received a communication
from the bankers of London, expressing their objections to capital
punishment: and also another from the governor of the Bank of England,
stating, though the Bank directors did not think it their duty to
interfere, they had no wish to press for capital punishment. His
lordship considered this to be an encouragement to proceed in their
course of mitigating the punishment, and particularly for doing away
with it in the two reserved cases in forgery. The principle as suggested
by the commissioners on which his lordship proposed to proceed was, that
capital punishment should be confined to high treason, and, with some
exceptions, to offences which consist in or are aggravated by acts of
violence to the person, or which tend directly to endanger life. It was
proposed that capital offences should be reduced to--1st, high treason;
2nd, murder; 3rd, attempt to murder; 4th, burnings of buildings or
ships; 5th, piracy; 6th, burglary; 7th, robbery; 8th, rape. Arson,
piracy, burglary, and robbery were to be capital offences only when
committed under circumstances or accompanied by acts directly calculated
to endanger life. The setting fire to stacks would be no longer a
capital offence: the crime, his lordship said, was no doubt a heinous
one; but the severity of the punishment had the effect of deterring
prosecutions. On the secondary punishments which were to be substituted
for capital condemnation, Lord John Russell expressed considerable
doubt as to whether the present system of transportation ought to be
continued. In theory it seemed desirable to remove an offender to a
great distance from the scene of his crime; but the accounts of the
practical working of the system were unsatisfactory. The four or five
thousand persons annually sent to New South Wales were not absorbed by
the population, but continued to form a large and separate vicious mass.
Crime and vice were consequently on the increase in the settlement; and
the continual importation of fresh cargoes of criminals threatened to
aggravate the evils indefinitely. The punishment operated unequally on
the convicts; it depended on the humour or temper of the masters whether
their situation should be one of indulgence, or one of intolerable
hardship. Moreover, there was no merit in the system on the score of
economy, it cost the country from £350,000 to £400,000 annually.
His lordship proposed, therefore, to abridge the number of cases of
transportation, but to aggravate its operation in those which continued
subject to it. No person should be transported for less than ten years,
it having been found that the effect of a shorter period was to make
the criminals insolent and unruly. The next period was to be for fifteen
years, and the last for life. A certain hour of labour in the chain
gangs was to be allotted to all the prisoners, and indulgences afforded
them according to their good conduct. But these were merely suggestions;
he did not in the present session intend to bring in any general measure
with a view of carrying them into effect.

No opposition was given to the passing of the bills in the commons. They
were brought into the upper house by Lord Denman, and the second reading
was fixed for the 4th of July. The propositions were moved by Lord
Denman, who alleged in their support similar facts and arguments to
those urged in the commons by Lord John Russell. Lord Lyndhurst gave his
full support to the principle and object of the bills; but he pointed
out certain inconsistencies and anomalies of detail, which were
subsequently rectified. The measures were likewise warmly advocated
by Lord Brougham, who looked with confidence towards a general and
effectual mitigation of the criminal code. Among the amendments which
were made by the lords was one changing the term of imprisonment from
five to three years, limiting the term of solitary confinement to a
month at one time, and to not more than three months in a year, and the
taking away the capital punishment for offences against the riot
act. Thus amended, the bill passed the lords, and the amendments were
afterwards agreed to unanimously by the commons.

An important alteration was made in this session, also, in the civil law
of the country in respect of the forms to be observed in the execution
of wills. This subject was introduced in the house of peers on the 23rd
of February, by Lord Langdale, the master of the rolls. His lordship
said that the general object of the measure was to collect the
provisions of several statutes relating to wills into one act of
parliament; and to make at the same time such modifications of these
provisions as should afford additional securities for the prevention of
spurious wills, and additional facilities for making genuine ones.
His lordship proposed to allow the owner of copyholds and customary
freeholds to dispose of them by will, which could not now be done. As
the law stood, a person could only bequeath such real property as he was
possessed of at the time of making his will; but his lordship said
he would enable the testator to dispose of any he might acquire
subsequently to the execution of the will. At present no person under
the age of twenty-one could make a will: his lordship proposed to give
the power of disposing of personal property to those who were beyond the
age of seventeen. With respect to witnesses the bill would enact that in
all cases the execution of the will must be attested by two, whether the
property were real or personal. An executor would be admitted to give
evidence of the validity of a will, which he could not do at present.
Under the existing law it was not necessary that both the witnesses
should be present at the same time; but the bill provided that the
signature of the testator or his acknowledgment should be made in the
presence of two witnesses, who should then attest it themselves. With
respect to the revocation of wills, no alteration was proposed in
the rule whereby a woman's will is set aside, by marriage; but it was
proposed to alter the rule adopted from the ecclesiastical courts
in modern times, whereby a man's will is considered as revoked by a
subsequent marriage and the birth of a child. The bill finally provided
for the due construction and effect of certain words. His lordship said
that a legislative construction of words had been objected to; but,
he argued, that when a rule of construction which plainly violated the
lawful intention of testators had been established in the courts of law,
there was no way of correcting it but by legislative interposition. The
bill was warmly approved of by the leading law authorities in the upper
house, and passed almost without discussion. In the commons, also, it
met with general approbation; the only opposition came from Sir Robert
Inglis, who objected to it chiefly on the ground of the expense which
the mode of execution there enjoined would entail on the humbler class
of testators. By abolishing holograph wills, and rendering two witnesses
necessary, a resort to professional advice would become indispensable.
The bill, however, was ably defended by the attorney-general; and it
passed into law.


PROROGATION OF PARLIAMENT.

The queen went in state to the house of lords, for the purpose of
closing the session, on the 17th of July. On this occasion the speaker
delivered an address to her majesty, in which, on behalf of the house of
commons, he assured her of their cordial participation in "that strong
and universal feeling of dutiful and affectionate attachment which
prevailed among the free and loyal people of which they were the
representatives, and expressed their trust that this feeling would be
strengthened by a long course of constitutional, beneficent, and wise
government." In recording the results of the session, the speaker
expressly mentioned the acts for the abolition of capital punishments,
&c.; and he expressed a hope that the important measures which had been
recommended to parliament, and which had not yet been perfected, might
be eventually adopted. The royal assent was then given to a number of
public and private bills; after which her majesty thus addressed both
houses of parliament:--

"My lords and gentlemen, I have been anxious to seize the first
opportunity of meeting you, in order that I might repeat in person my
cordial thanks for your condolence upon the death of his late majesty,
and for the expression of attachment and affection with which you
congratulated me upon my accession to the throne. I am very desirous of
renewing the assurances of my determination to maintain the Protestant
religion as established by law; to secure to all the free exercise of
the rights of conscience; to protect the liberties, and to promote the
welfare of all classes of the community. I rejoice that in ascending the
throne I find the country in amity with all foreign powers; and while
I faithfully perform the engagements of the crown, and carefully watch
over the interests of my subjects, it will be the constant object of my
solicitude to maintain the blessings of peace." Her majesty next thanked
the house of commons for the liberal supplies which they had granted
for the service of the year, as well as for the provision which they had
made to meet the usual payments chargeable on the civil list. Addressing
both houses again, the queen thanked them for the zeal and assiduity
with which they had applied themselves to the public business of the
country. Notwithstanding the melancholy interruption that had taken
place in their labours, she trusted they would have the beneficial
effect of advancing the progress of legislation in the new parliament.
Her majesty expressed much pleasure in the mitigation of the severity
of the criminal code; she hailed it as an auspicious commencement of her
reign. In conclusion, her majesty said--"I ascend the throne with a deep
sense of the responsibility which is imposed upon me; but I am supported
by the consciousness of my own right intentions, and by my dependence
upon the protection of Almighty God. It will be my care to strengthen
our institutions, civil and ecclesiastical, by discreet improvement,
wherever improvement is required, and to do all in my power to compose
and allay animosity and discord. Acting upon these principles, I shall
on all occasions look with confidence to the wisdom of parliament and
the affections of my people, which form, the true support of the dignity
of the crown, and ensure the stability of the constitution." The age and
sex of the youthful sovereign gave a singular and touching interest to
this scene, and the manner in which her majesty delivered the speech
heightened its effect. It was read in a clear and unfaltering tone,
indicating great presence of mind and firmness of character. The
appearance and manners of her majesty, indeed, enlisted in her favour
all the best feelings of the august assembly she addressed--all wished
that her reign might be long and prosperous.


STATE OF PARTIES AND ELECTIONS.

Queen Victoria ascended the throne at a period of perfect tranquillity.
The popularity of the ministers was, indeed, declining, and they were
surrounded with difficulties, partly from their own mismanagement of
affairs, and partly from the position into which their eagerness
for power had placed them. On the other hand the spirit of party was
subsiding in the country: calm and impartial thinkers began to embrace a
wider circle, yet it seemed clear that the administration could not have
long existed had the late king lived a few months longer. His majesty
had taken them back to his service with reluctance, and he was supposed
to be on the watch for the first favourable opportunity of dismissing
them. His demise, however, promised an increased stability to their
power. Under their new sovereign they looked for a new order of things.
She was believed to have been educated by her mother in principles and
predilections favourable to their rule, and her countenance and support
was expected to give not merely security, but popularity to their
government. Nor did they fail to turn the event to good account. When
pressed by their democratic allies to introduce organic measures for
which they had no predilection themselves, it had been their practice to
allege the king's reluctance to proceed, as a reason for not falling
in with their views. When, however, Queen Victoria ascended the throne,
they eagerly declared their emancipation from the thraldom of an hostile
court, and they proclaimed that the young queen had entered warmly into
their views, and had espoused their political creed without reservation.
Another considerable resource of popular appeal to the ministerial
candidates was the alleged misdeeds of the new King of Hanover.
Immediately upon his accession to the throne of that kingdom, his
majesty had issued an ordinance, by which the then existing constitution
was suspended; and it was thought this conduct of one who was an
acknowledged leader of the Tories, might be represented to the
disadvantage of that party. These, and other topics, were not without
their weight with the multitude. Yet, with their assistance, the
ministers had sufficient to do to maintain their previous position.
By the end of July the elections for English cities and boroughs were
nearly over, and the relative strength of parties was little changed as
regarded the Whigs. In the county elections they underwent, indeed, a
serious defalcation of strength; besides losing twenty-three seats, they
failed in fifteen counties out of sixteen in which they endeavoured
to substitute members of their own party for Conservatives. As for the
Radicals, public opinion was still less in their favour: even Mr. Hume
failed in being returned for Middlesex, and was driven to the necessity
of appearing in the house as Mr. O'Connell's nominee for Kilkenny. The
Radicals, it is true, did not suffer numerically; but the absence of
many of their leaders from the representation of important towns which
they had hitherto represented, was significant of the waning popularity
of extreme opinions. The loss, however, which ministers sustained in
the English representation, was somewhat compensated by the returns
of Scotland and Ireland. But while their numbers were not on the whole
diminished, there was an evident falling off in quality. Their friends
were not the representatives of such an extensive part of the population
as they had been in the last parliament.


CITY BANQUET TO THE QUEEN.

During this autumn the great corporation of the city of London
distinguished itself by a striking demonstration of its loyalty to the
crown, in a magnificent entertainment which was given to the queen
in Guildhall, on the 9th of November. On this occasion the utmost
enthusiasm prevailed, and her majesty's reception, both in her progress
to the city and at the banquet, must have been highly gratifying to her
feelings. Along the entire route, in going to and returning from the
city, she was greeted with enthusiastic cheers, and in the evening a
brilliant illumination appeared along the whole line of her passage.
Nothing was wanting, indeed, to give the utmost possible splendour to
the pageant. The event showed that the "liberal" common-council of
the city of London still fostered a substantial respect for loyalty--a
circumstance of great political interest.


OPENING OF THE NEW PARLIAMENT.

On the 20th of November the queen went in state to the house of lords to
open the new parliament. Having read and signed the usual declaration,
her majesty read the speech in a clear and audible voice. The speech
expressed satisfaction at the friendly assurances of all foreign powers;
regretted that civil war still afflicted the kingdom of Spain; stated
that directions had been given for a treaty of commerce, recently
concluded with the united republic of Peru and Bolivia, to be laid
before parliament; recommended to their serious consideration the state
of the province of Lower Canada; and stated that the demise of the crown
rendered it necessary that a new provision should be made for the
civil list. On this latter subject the queen remarked, that she placed
unreservedly at the disposal of the house of commons, those hereditary
revenues which were transferred to the public by her immediate
predecessor, and that she had commanded such papers as might be
necessary for the full examination of the subject to be laid before
them. Her majesty's speech concluded thus:--

"My lords and gentlemen--The external peace and domestic tranquillity
which at present happily prevail, are very favourable for the
consideration of such measures of reformation and amendment as may be
necessary or expedient, and your attention will naturally be directed
to that course of legislation which was interrupted by the necessary
dissolution of the last parliament. The result of the inquiries which
have been made into the condition of the poor in Ireland has been
already laid before parliament. And it will be your duty to consult
whether it may not be wise and safe to establish by law some
well-regulated means of relief for the destitute in that country. The
municipal government of the cities and towns in Ireland calls for
better regulation. The laws which govern the collection of the
tithe-composition in Ireland require revision and amendment. Convinced
that the better and more effectual administration of justice is amongst
the first duties of a sovereign, I request your attention to those
measures which will be submitted to you for the improvement of the law.
You cannot but be sensible of the deep importance of these questions
which I have submitted to you, and of the necessity of treating them in
that spirit of impartiality and justice which affords the best hope
of bringing them to a happy and useful termination. In meeting this
parliament, the first that has been elected under my authority, I am
anxious to declare my confidence in your loyalty and wisdom. The early
age at which I am called to the sovereignty of this kingdom renders it
a more imperative duty, that, under Divine Providence, I should place my
reliance upon your cordial cooperation, and upon the love and affection
of my people."

The address was moved in the house of lords by the Duke of Sussex,
who, in the several topics of his speech, avoided every allusion or
expression capable of giving offence to any member of the house. His
royal highness referred with much satisfaction to the declaration of
the Duke of Wellington at the close of the last session, namely, that he
would assist in the settlement of the Irish questions, and also to
the approbation he had avowed of the new poor-law. His royal highness
further expressed his pleasure at the affectionate reception which the
queen had met with in her late visit to the city, and adverted to the
peculiar interest with which he regarded a sovereign whose birth he
had been one of the first to witness. The address was seconded by Lord
Portman, and fully assented to by the Duke of Wellington, who said he
would follow the example which had been set him of abstaining from every
remark that could awaken party feeling. The address was then agreed to,
and ordered to be presented with the usual forms.

In the commons the address was moved by Lord Leveson, and seconded by
Mr. Craig. A discussion followed, in which Mr. Wakley took the lead.
After hearing the speech from the throne, Mr. Wakley said he rose to
remind ministers that they had some radical supporters in the house, a
circumstance which they appeared to have forgotten. After hearing the
speech from the throne, he could not avoid asking to what purpose
they had been so anxious, in 1835, to eject Sir Robert Peel and the
Conservatives? It was complained of the speech from the throne framed by
Sir Robert in that year, that it was vague and unsatisfactory: he, Mr.
Wakley, had never read a speech from any sovereign of this country more
open to the same reproach than the present one. He thought that at the
commencement of a new reign, with a young queen educated as ours had
been, the people had a right to expect a more explicit acknowledgment of
their grievances, and some indication of the means of redress. They
were now fresh from the hustings, where they had all been liberal in
promises: even the Tories had professed themselves the friends of
the people, and declared their delight in seeing the operatives come
forward, and take a share in politics. In order to test the sincerity of
both parties, he would move an amendment, in general terms, in favour of
an extension of the suffrage. Mr. Wakley concluded his speech by moving
three amendments, which he said he would put to the house separately,
in order that members might have no excuse for avoiding to vote on any
particular proposition. The first amendment was to the effect, "That
this house embraces the earliest opportunity of respectfully assuring
her majesty, that it will in the present session of parliament take
into consideration the state of the representation of the people in this
branch of the legislature, with a view to ensure by law an equitable
extension of the elective franchise." This amendment was seconded by
Sir W. Molesworth, and supported by Messrs. Hume and Grote. On the other
hand it was opposed by Mr. Liddell, Colonel Perceval, and Lord John
Russell. The latter admitted the reproach--if reproach it were--of
having framed the speech with a view to preclude discussion. It was
desirable that the queen should receive from her first parliament an
unanimous address. In allusion to Mr. Wakley's amendment, his lordship
observed that the hon. member had put his powders into three separate
papers, as portions of what he considered the same medicine. Without
entering into any general discussion of the questions involved in those
amendments. He thought it necessary shortly to state his opinion of
the present operation of the reform bill, and of his own position with
respect to it. He admitted the disadvantages and injuries to which the
reform act was subject; corruption and intimidation had prevailed at the
late elections to a great extent. With respect to the registration of
voters great amendments had been made. These were points on which it
behoved parliament to be always attentive, to see that the act suffered
no essential injury, and to remedy any error in the details which
experience of its actual working might suggest. But these, his lordship
continued, were questions widely different from those now brought
forward, such as the ballot, the extension of the suffrage, and
triennial parliaments, which were, in his estimation, a repeal of
the reform act, and placed the representation on a totally different
footing. He was not prepared to go thus far. With respect to
registration, Lord John Russell said that the attorney-general was about
to bring forward the bill of last session in an amended form, and he
himself would re-introduce the measure respecting the payment of rates.
But as to a second reform of the representation, having only five years
ago placed it on a new basis, it would be a most unwise and unsound
experiment, now to begin anew the process of reconstruction; he, for
one, at least, would decline taking any share in such a measure. Sir
Robert Peel congratulated the house upon the noble lord's aversion to
Mr. Wakley's physic. The member for Finsbury called for a change, in
order to recover for himself and his party the predominance they had
lost; but he was confident that if he were to give Mr. Wakley a _carte
blanche_ to cut and carve the constituency as he pleased, he and his
party would still be in a minority. Mr. Ward, on the other hand, warned
Lord John Russell that by his declaration against the ballot, he had
signed his own death-warrant, and chalked out his political grave. On a
division, Mr. Wakley's amendment was negatived by five hundred and nine
against twenty; and his two other amendments, pledging the house to the
vote by ballot and the repeal of the septennial act, were then put, and
negatived without a division.

The question having been again put on the address, Mr. Harvey proposed
an amendment to this effect:--"That whilst this house is desirous
of making the most liberal provision for the support of the becoming
splendour and just dignity of the crown, they feel that the same ought
to be derived from obvious and direct sources; and that to such end
every branch of the hereditary revenues of the crown ought to be
placed, without reservation, and without exception, under the control
of parliament, as the surest means of protecting the crown against
exaggerated impressions of their amount, and as a security against
their misapplication." The amendment further set forth, that in the
arrangement of the civil list, the house confidently relied upon the
ready co-operation of her majesty, in promoting all needful inquiry into
the claims of persons to be continued as recipients of state provision.
In moving this amendment, Mr. Harvey observed that the former part of it
was in substance the same with the proposition ministers had themselves
made on the subject when in opposition. He pressed the second part of
his amendment, on the ground that a strong feeling existed in the
public mind against it as it now stood, which feeling was materially
strengthened by the late alteration in the poor-law system. He assured
ministers that they had not a superabundance of popularity, and he
predicted that Lord John Russell's declaration of that night would
operate fatally to his government. In reply, Lord John Russell contented
himself with stating that an account of the actual and average receipts
from the duties in question would be laid before the committees; and
that with respect to the pension list, the precedent of 1831 would be
strictly followed. Ministers agreed in thinking it far wiser to provide
against abuses for the future, than to take away pensions already
granted. If the revision proposed by the hon. member should be adopted
by parliament, ministers would claim the right of further consideration,
before they decided whether or not they should give it their support.
After a few words from Mr. Harvey in rejoinder, his amendment was put
and negatived without a division.

Lord John Russell's determination to resist any further movement in
the way of constitutional innovation, was made the subject of indignant
comment on the part of the radical organs, both in parliament and
throughout the country.


THE SUBJECT OF THE CIVIL LIST DEBATED.

The subject first brought before the attention of parliament by
ministers was the arrangement of the civil list. On the 23rd of November
the chancellor of the exchequer moved that the passage in the queen's
speech relating thereto should be referred to a select committee. He
observed that former sovereigns had inherited considerable personal
property from their predecessors, while Queen Victoria had derived
nothing from that source, and would further be deprived of the revenues
of Hanover, now a separate kingdom. Her establishment must also so far
exceed that of a king or of a queen-consort, as being composed of ladies
as well as gentlemen. Under those circumstances Mr. Rice submitted that
the charges of the establishment of the late king were proper for Queen
Victoria, These charges were:--


                                       William IV.    The Queen.

     First class, privy purse........   £110,000       £60,600

     Second class, salaries..........    130,000       130,000

     Third class, bills  ............    171,500       172,000

     Fourth class, special service...     23,000        23,200

     Unappropriated money............                    9,000

                                 Total  £510,000       £470,000

In conclusion, Mr. Rice touched upon the decrease in the amount of the
pension list, and said he should be prepared to prove that the pensions
granted by Earl Grey and Lord Melbourne had been awarded in strict
conformity with a resolution of the house passed in February, 1834,
which recommended the granting of pensions to such persons only as by
their services to the crown, or the public, or by useful discoveries in
science or art, had a just claim on the benevolence of the crown or the
gratitude of the nation. The papers with reference to the civil list
were referred to a select committee, consisting of twenty-one members.
The result of their labours was a report in favour of the minister's
proposition, which was presented on the 16th of December, when a bill
carrying out his views was brought in. The bill was read a third time on
the 19th of December, after which Mr. Hume moved that the sum granted to
the queen should be reduced from £385,000 to £335,000; and this motion
having been negatived, Mr. Grote proposed as an amendment the entire
removal of the sum allotted to pensions from the civil list. This
amendment was seconded by Mr. Hume, and opposed by the chancellor of the
exchequer, who contended that in a monarchical government, the power
of conferring honour and rewards should be inseparably attached to the
crown. The principle advocated by the honourable member struck at the
very root of monarchy. Mr. Rice proceeded to deny that politics
had influenced ministers in their grant of pensions to literary and
scientific men, as had been asserted by Mr. Grote, and expressed his
belief that were any government disposed so to prostitute its power,
there was a spirit in literature and science which would save talent
from the disgrace of such political profligacy. Mr. Grote's motion was
further opposed by Mr. Charles Buller, albeit he was his friend. He
differed from him both as to tire policy of granting pensions at all,
and in respect to the quarter in which the power of according them
should be placed. He thought that it was desirable that men of letters
should be fostered by the government, when labouring for the public
good, and without the support of popular favour. Scarcely a great name
in English literature could be produced which had not been supported by
regal or individual generosity. At the present day, men of letters would
not brook to receive the bounty of private individuals: men like Hobbes
or Locke, could no longer consent to depend on the liberality of an
Earl of Devonshire, or an Earl of Shaftesbury. On a division Mr. Grote's
amendment was rejected by a majority of one hundred and twenty-five to
twenty-three. An amendment was then moved by Sir Robert Peel, to the
effect that if the sum of £1200 were not granted in pensions in any
one year, the difference might be applied in any subsequent year. No
opposition was made to this amendment on the part of ministers; but the
Radicals divided against them, and it was carried by a majority of one
hundred and fourteen to twenty-six. Another and last protest was made
against the bill by Mr. Hume, but the bill passed without further
division.

The bill was taken to the lords and read a first time on the same
evening. Lord Melbourne moved the second reading on the 20th, and in
doing so entered into a full explanation of the details of the bill,
and emphatically called upon the peers to support it, as they valued the
preservation of the monarchy, laws, and liberties of England. He would
not say that monarchy was the best form of government that ever existed,
but an attempt to alter it in this country would be the height of
insanity and crime. The only opposition to the measure in the house of
lords came from Lord Brougham, who contended that due consideration had
not been employed either in the framing or passing of this bill. The
wisdom of making a definite arrangement for the life of a sovereign who
might be expected to reign for the next half century was questionable;
and yet this was to be done, and a civil list voted which exceeded that
of lier majesty's predecessors, while parliament was left in the dark as
to those very important revenues possessed by the crown, the incomes of
the duchies of Cornwall and Lancaster. After a few words from the Duke
of Wellington, who expressed his apprehensions that the bill did not
contain a sufficient provision for pensions, the bill went through the
committee, and was afterwards read a third time and passed without a
division. It was customary that the royal assent should be given to
bills of this nature in person, and the queen went in state to the house
of lords on the 23rd of December for that purpose. On presenting the
bill, the speaker observed, that it had been framed in "a liberal and
confiding spirit," on which the queen bowed her acknowledgment, and
after the royal assent had been given to that and other bills, her
majesty left the house.

On the 11th of December, a message was brought from the queen to both
houses, recommending to the consideration of parliament the provision
made by law for the support of her royal highness the Duchess of Kent,
and expressing her majesty's reliance on their zeal and loyalty to adopt
such measures for the future provision of the duchess as her rank and
station, and increased proximity to the throne might require. On the
following day this message was taken into consideration by a committee
of the house of commons, when an additional grant of £8000 a year,
raising the annual income of the duchess to £30,000, passed without much
discussion.


THE SUBJECT OF THE PENSION LIST.

The chancellor of the exchequer redeemed a pledge which he had given
in the debate on the civil list, by moving "for a select committee to
inquire how far pensions granted in virtue of the first of William IV.
c. 24, and charged on the civil list, and in virtue of second and
third William IV. c. 116, charged on the consolidated fund, ought to be
continued, having due regard to the just claims of the parties, and to
economy in the public expenditure." Mr. Spring Rice, on this occasion,
gave a brief history of the pension list. Sir Robert Peel opposed the
motion, and moved a series of resolutions, declaring it advisable to
make such provision as should enable the crown to continue all such
pensions as had existed at the accession of the late king, or had been
granted by him during his reign. This amendment was seconded by Lord
Elliot, and supported by several Conservative members. Mr. Harvey
took the lead in opposing it. Mr. Spring Rice closed the debate by
endeavouring to vindicate himself from the charge of inconsistency; and
on a division the motion for a committee was carried by a majority of
two hundred and ninety-five against two hundred and thirty-three.


INTELLIGENCE FROM CANADA--DISCUSSION ON THE SUBJECT--ADJOURNMENT OF THE
HOUSE.

The settlement of the civil list left ministers at liberty to move the
immediate adjournment of the house. Before they separated, however,
news arrived of a revolt in Canada. On the 22nd of December, Lord John
Russell rose to move the order of the day, for the house to resolve
itself into a committee of supply, and at the same time took occasion to
state that, although no measures could be taken by the house with regard
to Canada, he nevertheless did not consider himself justified, in the
actual condition of that province, to move the adjournment of the house
beyond the 16th of January. The present state of affairs was this: the
assembly having been convened to consider the resolutions passed
in parliament, had been adjourned on their refusal to entertain the
supplies, or to proceed to business. Despatches, subsequently received
from Lord Gosford, showed that the intention was not to seek redress by
means of that assembly, but to extort it by violence from her majesty's
government. In this state of things Lord Gosford had tendered his
resignation, which had been accepted, and the administration of
affairs entrusted to Sir John Colborne, in whose judgment and abilities
government felt the highest confidence. They had declared to that
officer that, though they were reluctant to resort to means of extreme
severity, yet, nevertheless, if he found it necessary to proclaim
martial law in the province, they would take upon themselves the
responsibility. Accounts of open disturbance had been recently received;
and there was reason to believe that a collision had taken place between
her majesty's troops and persons in arms for treasonable purposes. He
thought that government had done their duty in the measures they had
taken. On the morrow he purposed to produce such details from Lord
Gosford's despatches as might be communicated without injury to the
public service, and would call upon parliament, in January, for such
measures as the exigency of the case might demand. Mr. Leader applauded
the resort of the Canadians to arms, and derided as desperate every
effort of the government to put them down; their cause was considered
a common one by all our North American colonies. Sir William Molesworth
and Messrs. Grote and Warburton all expressed their sympathy for the
Canadian insurgents, and augured their success. A discussion ensued,
in which the Radical leaders denounced the mother country in terms as
strong as any employed by the leaders of the Canadian insurgents. Mr.
Warburton advocated the separation of the colony from the empire. Mr.
Gladstone maintained a just view of the dispute between the colony and
the mother country, but so mystified his arguments by useless subtleties
and verbosity, that the speech failed to produce an effect corresponding
to its substantial merits. Mr. Leader boldly expressed his complacency
in the dismemberment of the empire, and the speech of the hon. member
was denounced by Mr. George F. Young as disloyal. Sir George Grey made
a sensible speech, expository of the true condition of Canadian affairs.
Mr. Maclean exposed and denounced the conduct of Mr. Papineau, the
leader of the French Canadian insurgent party. Lord John Russell
delivered a speech sound and statesman-like, which completely "carried
the house with the government." As usual when ministers were at issue
with their Radical supporters, the Conservative party took no prominent
share in the debate. On the following day both houses of parliament
adjourned to the 16th of January.


STATE OF THE CONTINENT.

War still continued in Spain. At the close of the last year the troops
of the queen had succeeded in the relief of Bilboa, an event which had
the effect of giving rise to dissensions among the Carlists. After this
event, many weeks were spent by the Christino commanders in concerting
a combined movement upon the Carlist lines in Guipuscoa. An attack was
made upon them by General Evans on the 15th of March. His forces were
collected at Loyola, the right of the line being composed of Spaniards,
and the left of the British legion, which amounted to between four and
five thousand men. The attack was at first successful: the Carlists,
having maintained a furious fire, after a five hours' conflict abandoned
their last defence, and fell back to Hernani. On the following day,
however, matters took a different turn: while the victorious troops were
preparing to descend upon Hernani, on a sudden solid masses of infantry
appeared behind the town, under the command of Don Sebastian. These
troops consisted of ten fresh battalions; and their charge was so
impetuous, that the British legion and the Spanish troops were obliged
to give way. From this time the army of Don Carlos gained courage, and
province after province was invaded by his guerilla chiefs. Still no
decisive event favoured his design upon the Spanish throne. In one grand
point he, however, succeeded, that of annihilating or dispersing the
British legion. Unsupported by the people for whom they fought, many
of them were slain in various engagements of desultory warfare; and
at length those who remained laid clown their arms, and the British
auxiliary legion ceased to exist. Before this event General Evans had
returned to England, disheartened by the want of co-operation in the
Spanish generals. But the year closed, and the Carlists and Christinos
were still arrayed in arms against each other. People of the same nation
and the same blood were seeking each other's destruction with a deadly
animosity.

In Portugal, also, there were strifes and divisions, and rumours of
intended insurrections. In that country, moreover, the British who had
defended the cause of the queen were ill treated. The unpopularity of
the English increased daily, and the ambition and selfishness of Great
Britain were the constant themes of the popular press. So odious
were our countrymen that the English admiral in the Tagus thought it
necessary to issue the following general order to his captains:--"The
unsettled state of the country, and the differences known lately to have
existed between her most faithful majesty and her present ministers,
as well as the difficult position in which his royal highness Prince
Ferdinand is placed with regard to the Portuguese people, and the great
suspicion with which all foreigners he brought here into his service are
viewed, renders it necessary that the utmost caution, should be observed
by the English residing in Portugal with respect to private interviews
either with her most faithful majesty or her august consort,
that neither the government nor the people may have a pretext for
entertaining any undue impressions of the intentions of England. It is
therefore my most positive orders that you do not yourself call at the
palace, nor permit any officer to do so without my previous sanction."
The British ambassador sought, though in vain, to obtain justice for
the officers and soldiers who had been in Don Pedro's service, and whose
claims upon the Portuguese government remained unliquidated. A royal
order appeared, indeed, informing "the foreigners lately in the service
of her most faithful majesty," that if they were dissatisfied with the
decision of the commissioners to whom their claims stood referred, "the
law was open to them." This was most unsatisfactory, as the Portuguese
courts of law are notorious for corruption. The privileges of the
British, indeed, ceased to be respected in Portugal, and their claims
were set aside. They were restrained from carrying on retail trades,
which they had hitherto done by virtue of early treaties, and as they
were entitled to do by law. At the same time, disputes were constantly
taking place on the Tagus between the crews of British vessels and the
custom-house officers.


CHAPTER XLIX.

{VICTORIA. 1838--1839}

     Parliament reassembles: Debates on Canada; Address to the
     Throne moved by Lord John Russell; Bill for suspending; the
     Lower Canadian Constitution..... The Question of Election
     Committees..... Motion for the Ballot..... Parliamentary
     Qualification Bill..... Personal Attacks..... Revival of
     Anti-slavery Agitation..... Debates on the Irish Poor-law
     Bill: the Bill carried in the Commons..... Motion for the
     Repeal of the Appropriation Clause..... Ministerial Plan for
     settling the Tithe Question..... Committee of the House of
     Commons upon the Irish Municipal Bill; the Bill
     rejected..... The Coronation..... Debates in the House of
     Commons on the Irish Tithe  Question..... The Irish Poor
     Law Bill carried in   the Lords..... Projected Formation
     of a  Colony in New Zealand..... Financial  Statements.....
     Motion for Repeal of the Corn Laws..... Various Improvements
     in the Law..... A Select Committee to inquire into the
     Operation of the Poor Laws..... Combinations in England and
     Ireland..... Debates in Parliament on John Thorn, alias Sir
     William   Courtenay..... Committee on Church Lands..... Act
     for abolishing Pluralities..... The Subject of Education
     discussed in both Houses..... The Question of Canada
     renewed..... Queen Prorogues Parliament..... Disaffection
     among the Working Classes..... Proposed Reduction of the
     Rates of Postage..... The State of Ireland..... The Affairs
     of Canada..... The State of the Continent.


PARLIAMENT REASSEMBLES--DEBATES ON CANADA--ADDRESS TO THE THRONE
MOVED BY LORD JOHN RUSSELL--BILL FOR SUSPENDING THE LOWER CANADIAN
CONSTITUTION.

{A.D. 1838}

Parliament reassembled on the 16th of January. The first subject brought
under notice was the affairs of Canada. This subject was introduced by
Lord John Russell, who, after recapitulating the principal events that
had occurred since the connexion of that colony with Great Britain
down to the report of the Committee in 1828, took up his ground on that
report, which the assembly of Lower Canada had characterised as
"an imperishable monument to the justice and profound wisdom of the
committee, an authentic testimonial of the reality of their grievances
and of the justice of their complaints, faithfully interpreting their
wishes and their wants." It might have been supposed, said his lordship,
that after the people and the government of this country had proved
themselves anxious to perform all that was asked for, and that was
indicated by the reports of the committee, the Canadians would have been
not only satisfied, but willing to express their cordiality towards the
British government. The case, however, was the very reverse of this. On
the 6th of December, 1828, the house of assembly resolved, "That on
the permanent settlement before mentioned being effected, it would
be expedient to render the governor, lieutenant-governor, or person
administering the government for the time being, the judges and
executive councillors, independent of the annual vote of that house,
to the extent of their present salaries." Having adverted to other
resolutions indicative of the growing dissatisfaction of the Canadians,
Lord John Russell proceeded to state what had been done in order to
remedy the grievances set forth in those resolutions. The independence
of the judges was demanded; and Lord Ripon, then colonial-secretary, had
fully concurred in its reasonableness, and had suggested a method for
carrying it into effect. The house of assembly, however, instead
of following out that suggestion, tacked to the law by which the
independence of the judges was to be secured, certain provisions
relating to the hereditary revenues of the crown, and to the
establishment of a court of impeachment for the judges. Then as regarded
the subject on which the widest difference between the assembly and the
imperial government had existed, no opposition had been offered to
the terms of the assembly's resolutions. The judges were informed,
instantly, that, with the exception of the chief-justice, it was no
longer desirable that they should sit in the legislative council; and
a number of persons were added to that body totally independent of the
crown, and giving a great majority in the council to those who were
unconnected with the government. Of the forty members in the council,
indeed, not less than eighteen were French Canadians: many of the
members of English origin had quitted the province, and but seven
remained in official connexion with the government. Another grievance
related to the crown and clergy reserves; and Lord Ripon had declared
it was time to put an end to the old system; and only differed from the
assembly in wishing to prevent an undue facility from being afforded
to poor and improvident purchasers of waste lands. Concessions had also
been made with reference to the property of the Jesuits, which had
been ordered to be applied to educational purposes; and on the
much-contested, question of the duties collected under the earlier acts,
and which the crown had, according to law, the right of appropriating.
The Canadians, however, made but a poor return for these concessions. In
1833, a supply-bill, containing the most unusual conditions, passed
the house of assembly; and in the following year the assembly adopted a
course which had led to the present difficulties. It passed
ninety-two resolutions, some of grievance, some of eulogy, and some
of vituperation, and amounting in the whole to a long and vehement
remonstrance; and after spending an entire session in framing it, it
separated without having passed any bill of supply. Since that time no
supplies had been voted. The demeanour of the house of assembly in the
following years remained unaltered. At the commencement of his speech,
Lord John Russell proposed a bill to suspend for a certain time the
existing constitution of Lower Canada; and at the same time moved
an address pledging the house to assist her majesty in restoring
tranquillity to her Canadian dominions, His lordship in the course of
his speech gave an outline of the intended bill. Mr. Hume entered
at considerable length into a recapitulation of the past and present
grievances of the Canadians. He laid the blame of all that had passed
upon the government; and said that "it was not the man who shed blood,
but the man who stimulated him to shed it, who was the guilty
party." Mr. Grote likewise opposed the proposed address. He threw the
responsibility of the failure of the measure which had been taken to
adjust the financial disputes, upon Lord Ripon. Not content, he
said, with advancing a claim to the appropriation of the casual and
territorial revenues to the purposes of civil government without the
consent of the house of assembly, that noble lord had thought fit to
propose to make them over to the clergy; a step which was at once novel
and preposterous, and only embroiled matters still further. Sir Robert
Peel promised his cordial assent to the address, because this country
had acted with justice and liberality towards Canada. He thought that
the military force in the colony should have been immediately increased.
In reply, Lord Howick endeavoured to show that the government was not
culpable in omitting to back their resolutions of the last year with a
military force. He argued that regiments were not necessary to put down
meetings: they could not stop speeches, prevent resolutions, or obtain
juries to convict men for seditious practices. An additional regiment
introduced into Halifax had, in fact, served greatly to increase the
existing discontents. Mr. Charles Buller supported the address: the law
should be vindicated, and the insurgents put down without parley, unless
we were prepared to consent to a separation, and leave Canada to itself.
There was no ground for separation, nor could we with any regard to the
interests of the colony consent to abandon it; but we ought to comply
without delay with all the just demands of the Canadians. Mr. Leader
complained of being taken by surprise; and wished the house to adjourn
for the purpose of giving himself and his friends time to consider what
course they should take, and an opportunity of refuting the "fallacies
contained in the noble lord's speech." This was opposed by Lord John
Russell; and on a division the motion for an address was carried by one
hundred and eighty-eight against twenty-eight.

On the following day Lord John Russell brought in his proposed bill
for the suspension of the existing constitution of Canada. Its leading
object was to enable the governor-general and council, on the motion
of the governor, to pass any laws which might be considered necessary,
during the present suspension of the legislature of the province. In
addition to the means for suppressing the insurrection, the bill would
authorise the governor-general to grant a general amnesty. With respect
to the future government of Canada, his lordship said, that it was the
intention of ministers that the governor-general should be invested with
power to convene a certain number of persons; namely, three from
the legislative councils of each of the two provinces, and ten
"representatives" from each, to form a council to concert with the
governor-general as to the measures which might be deemed advisable for
the adjustment of the affairs of the province. The persons to be named
would be chosen by the governor-general, while those who were to be
convened, having a "representative character," might of course be taken
from the legislative assembly. But as in Lower Canada it was almost
impossible that the assembly would be brought to act beneficially, it
would be competent to the governor-general, both in the upper and lower
province, to hold elections for persons, amounting to twenty in the
whole, to concert with him upon the general state of affairs. Sir Hussey
Vivian said that Mr. Hume had constantly stated in that house that he
anticipated a revolt. No man had a greater right to foretell such
an event. The man Martin had recently foretold the destruction of
Yorkminster; and he had set it on fire to fulfil his prediction. In
that same manner Mr. Hume had taken measures for the fulfilment of
his prophecy. Sir George Grey, the under-secretary for the colonial
department, in reply to some doubts which had been raised by Mr. Hume,
with respect to the loyalty of the other North American colonies, cited
facts to prove that the best possible spirit existed in Nova Scotia and
New-Brunswick. Mr. Grote presented a petition from Mr. Roebuck, praying
that he might be heard at the bar in defence of the house of assembly
of Lower Canada, and in opposition to the ministerial bill. Lord John
Russell thought that the house should be allowed time to consider
precedents; and after some further conversation Mr. Grote gave notice
that he should call the attention of the house to the subject on the
22nd instant.

The subject of Canada was brought before the lords on the 18th by Lord
Glenelg, who moved an appropriate address to the queen. After adverting
to the disturbances in that province, he made reference to the intended
bill. With respect to ulterior arrangements his lordship saw great
difficulties in the way of a legislative union between the two
provinces, but thought that considerable advantage might be made of
a federal union. In conclusion, his lordship defended the conduct of
government in not having provided more troops for the suppression of
the insurrection. Lord Brougham ridiculed Lord Glenelg's despatches, to
which that noble lord had referred in his speech. The despatches
were certainly the products of a mind inadequately furnished with the
experience and knowledge necessary for the task imposed upon it, but
the honest intentions of the writer were equally apparent, and might
have protected him from the kind of invective to which the noble
logomachist subjected him. The whole speech of Lord Brougham was as
damaging to himself as to the government which he assailed. He pursued
the government with his irony and abuse, not because they fell beneath
him in point of honour or principle, but because they refused him their
confidence as Lord Chancellor, when his indiscretions and bullying
rendered him alike odious to the court and unendurable to the cabinet.
His lordship might fairly be considered as much the "standing counsel"
for the rebellious Canadians in the lords, as Mr. Roebuck was in the
commons. Nevertheless, the denunciations of the government by the
eccentric peer were in the main grounded upon their errors and
vacillation, and these vices in their administration were depicted with
a scathing eloquence, and a malignant spirit. Lord Brougham played the
part of a mere partisan, and was set down by the country for such. The
patriotic prestige associated with his name passed away. Lord Melbourne,
in reply, characterized Lord Brougham's speech as "a laboured and
extreme concentration of bitterness." Concerning the charge against
ministers of neglect in not providing against the possibility of an
outbreak, his lordship said, that it was a difficult question which they
had at the time to decide. By not re-enforcing the troops they ran
the hazard of what had in fact occurred; but, on the other hand, had a
considerable force been sent out, there would have been an end to all
chance of an amicable termination of the disputes. It would have been
instantly said, that we were filling Canada with troops, and thus
manifesting a fixed intention of putting down public opinion by the
force of arms. The Duke of Wellington thought that the proceeding's
should have originated in a message from the throne. With reference to
the military force, he said, that he must do ministers the justice
to say that he could not blame them for not having taken more active
measures. He knew several officers in Canada; and the opinions of these
officers, as communicated to him, were, that there was not the smallest
reason to apprehend anything like insurrection in Lower Canada. At the
same time his grace said, that he could not understand, when ministers
had found it expedient to move troops from Nova Scotia and New Brunswick
into Canada, they did not despatch fresh troops to supply the vacancy
thereby occasioned. After a few words from Lord Ripon, who condemned the
conduct of government, the Marquess of Lansdowne applauded the candid
terms in which the Duke of Wellington had expressed his opinion on the
military part of the question. The Earl of Durham, who was about to go
to Canada as governor, said, that it was impossible for words to express
the reluctance with which he had undertaken the arduous task, and
incurred the awful responsibility which must await him in his endeavours
to execute the objects of his mission. Nothing but the most determined
devotion to her majesty's service, and the welfare of his country, could
have induced him to place himself in a situation in which he feared he
should neither answer the expectations of his friends nor of the nation.
Having noticed the various tasks which would devolve upon him, his
lordship said, with an apparent foreboding of what was to ensue, that he
could not perform them without the cordial and energetic support of her
majesty's cabinet, and the co-operation of the imperial parliament. Lord
Glenelg closed the debate by retaliating on Lord Brougham for his fierce
denunciations, and by contrasting his conduct with that of the Duke
of Wellington, whose candour and magnanimity he warmly applauded. The
address was agreed to.

According to notice, Mr. Grote, on the 22nd, moved that Mr. Roebuck be
heard at the bar on behalf of the assembly of Lower Canada. Mr. Roebuck
relied on his title to be heard as general agent for Canada, but Mr.
Gladstone said that he was not aware of any constitutional right or
privilege of colonies to appoint agents with powers of this general
description. If allowed in practice, it must lead to interminable
confusion. Lords John Russell and Stanley also expressed their aversion
to hearing Mr. Roebuck as an agent of Canada; but the motion was
nevertheless acceded to. On the motion of Lord John Russell, the bill
for suspending the constitution of Lower Canada was read a second time;
after which Mr. Roebuck proceeded to address the house from the bar. His
speech was by no means conciliatory; on the contrary, his care seems to
have been to select such topics as were most likely to prove
generally offensive to its temper and prejudices. In one passage he
remarked:--"Talk to me of being frightened at being called a traitor--at
being told that my life is forfeited--at the newspapers setting
forth that I am to be sent to the Tower! Do you think that I am to be
frightened by such petty warfare? If I be guilty, why are there not some
who dare accuse me lawfully? My papers have been seized: let them be
produced. I have not run away; because I know that there is a jury
in England who will render justice to the accused." On Mr. Roebuck's
withdrawal, Mr. Hume moved the postponement of the committal to that day
six months. This motion was opposed by Sir George Grey, who replied to
Mr. Roebuck's speech in a very able harangue. The subject was renewed on
the 23rd by Sir William Molesworth. Mr. E. L. Bulwer gave ministers his
cordial support. He thanked them for their determination to uphold the
integrity of the empire, and the maintenance of the laws; and he thanked
them as a friend to a liberal and popular policy, for their declared
resolution to redress the grievances of Canada. He would ask Mr.
Warburton and his friends, whether they were aware that till within the
last seventy years printing-presses were forbidden in Canada; that at
the present day the vast majority of the electors could neither read nor
write; and that it often happened that the foreman of a jury could not
give in the verdict because of his inability to read it? Was this a
colony fit for independence? If it were a republic to-morrow, it would
be a monster in legislation--half-jacobinism, half-feudalism. Mr. Bulwer
designated Mr. Warburton and his friends, in the course of his speech,
by the term "philosophical Radicals." Mr. Grote, in reply, said that
the designation was quite as respectable as that of "literary Whig."
The debate was closed by Lord John Russell. On a division the motion
for going into committee was carried by a majority of two hundred and
sixty-two against sixteen.

On the 25th Lord John Russell, in moving that "the speaker leave
the chair," informed the house that in looking over the bill he had
discovered a number of verbal amendments to be necessary, and as it
was desirable that these should be introduced before the discussion was
resumed, he moved that the house should go into committee _pro forma_,
in order to afford an opportunity for making the requisite alterations.
Upon the question being put that the speaker leave the chair, Mr.
Warburton rose and made a long speech in opposition, which was utterly
devoid of any practicable suggestions. A long and rambling debate
followed, without any result.

The house finally went into committee on the bill, and proceeded to
consider its several clauses and the amendments proposed. The bill was
read a third time, and passed on the 29th of January, by a majority of
one hundred and ten against eight; the few non-contents being Radicals.

The bill came before the house of lords on the 2nd of February, when
it was opposed by Lord Brougham, in a speech of great length, and in an
acrimonious spirit. Lord Aberdeen also, though he supported the measure,
expressed his contempt of the conduct of the government. Lord Melbourne
had quietly endured the repeated attacks which had been made upon
ministers; but on this occasion he retorted upon Lord Brougham's
censures with effect, convicting him of a change of principles. Lord
Brougham, however, denied that he had changed his principles: it was
the changed conduct of others that had compelled him to oppose them. The
Duke of Wellington reproduced many of the objections that had been urged
in the other house; and Lord Wharncliffe, after censuring the conduct of
ministers, gave a reluctant assent to the bill. On the 5th of February,
Mr. Roebuck, on the motion of Lord Brougham, was heard by the house as
agent of the house of assembly of Lower Canada; but his speech could not
arrest the progress of the bill. It was passed on the 8th of February;
Lords Ellenborough, Fitzwilliam, and Brougham entering their protest
against it on the journals of the house, though on different grounds.

The more important provisions of this bill were that the constitution
of Lower Canada was suspended till November, 1840; that her majesty in
council was empowered to constitute a special council, and to appoint,
or authorize the governor to appoint, such and so many special
councillors as she might think proper; that, until November, 1840, it
should be lawful for the governor, with the advice and consent of the
majority of the said councillors convened for the purpose, to make such
laws or ordinances for the peace, welfare, and good government of Lower
Canada, as the legislature of that province, at the time of passing the
act, was empowered; and that all laws or ordinances so made, subject to
the provisions thereinafter contained for disallowance thereof by her
majesty, should have the like force and effect as laws passed by the
legislative bodies. The governor was further to have the initiative of
all measures proposed in the council, five of whom were required for a
quorum. Certain restrictive provisoes followed these provisions; and it
was directed that a copy of every such law or ordinance "be transmitted
to the home government;" and her majesty was empowered, by an order
in council, to disallow the same at any time within two years of its
receipt.


THE QUESTION OF ELECTION COMMITTEES, ETC.

The necessity of an alteration in the mode of trying controverted
elections under the Grenville act had been for some time recognised. A
committee had been appointed to examine into this subject in 1837; and
Mr. Charles Buller, who had been chairman of that committee, had, on the
21st of November last, obtained leave to bring in a bill similar in
its provisions to one which had been in the hands of members in the
preceding session, though it had not been discussed. This bill, in
its original shape, provided that three assessors, barristers of seven
years' standing, should be appointed by the speaker to act as chairmen
of election committees for the session only, and as a court of appeal
from the revising barristers on matters of law. Subsequently, when this
bill was in progress, it was thought better that the first assessors
should be named in the act, and that the future appointments should be
placed at the disposal of the speaker, subject to the confirmation of
the house. On the same day Mr. O'Connell said that he also had devised a
plan, which he was anxious to submit to the consideration of the house;
and he likewise obtained leave to bring in a bill for a similar
purpose. Mr. Buller's bill came on for the second reading on the 27th of
November, when it was opposed by Lord Stanley, who moved that the second
reading be postponed till the 12th of May, in order that the question
might receive a fuller consideration. Mr. Williams Wynn approved of
the bill; and Mr. O'Connell abandoned his own in its favour. Lord John
Russell recommended that the bill should be read a second time, thinking
that it at least provided some remedy for the evils complained of. On a
division the second reading was carried by a majority of two hundred
and fourteen against one hundred and sixty. Nothing further was done,
however, before Christmas, except that there was much discussion on the
subject of election committees.

The house of commons was again occupied with the subject of controverted
elections on the 2nd of April. On the motion for the recommittal of Mr.
C. Buller's bill, Sir Robert Peel rose for the purpose of bringing
the subject generally before the house, and of submitting to their
consideration a proposition of his own. Sir Robert's scheme was, that
the speaker should nominate a committee, which should be called "a
general committee for elections," and which should consist of four or
six, or some such limited number. To this committee he would leave the
duty of appointing select committees, by whom election petitions were to
be tried. These last committees might consist of seven or nine members,
and each was to have the aid of an assessor who should be its chairman,
and in all respects on an equal footing with the members of the
committee. These persons were not to be permanent, but employed as
occasion might demand. There was to be no attendance of members at a
ballot and the operation of chance was entirely excluded. Mr. O'Connell
still thought it would be advisable to take the adjudication of these
contests out of the present hands, and to transfer it to the judges. He
moved as an amendment, that Mr. Buller's bill should be referred to a
select committee, who might report on the subject at large. Lord Stanley
moved that Mr. Buller's bill be considered that day six months; and
proposed that a committee should be appointed to examine the conflicting
cases, and to report on a mode of giving uniformity to the law. Mr.
Shiel approved of Sir Robert Peel's plan; but he thought that party
spirit would stand in the way of their obtaining a declaratory
act, since on some questions the two parties in parliament were
systematically opposed to each other. Mr. O'Connell's proposition was
negatived, and Mr. Buller consented to withdraw his measure. On the 10th
of May, therefore, Sir Robert Peel moved for leave to bring in his
bill, dropping that part of his scheme, however, which established
assessors. Leave was given to bring in the bill; but the
attorney-general thought that all that was necessary was to repeal
the Grenville act. They might then go on making one experiment after
another, until they arrived at some plan that would give universal
satisfaction.

Before the Christmas recess, the freemen and parliamentary electors'
bill, which had been dropped in the preceding session, had been
re-introduced. The two grand objects of this bill were to relieve
householders entitled to the elective franchise, by extending the time
fixed by the reform bill for payment of rates and taxes; and to remove
the stamp-duty payable by freemen on their admission. The former part
of the bill met with much opposition; and Mr. T. Duncombe moved an
amendment, tending altogether to repeal the rate-paying clause of the
reform act. This amendment, however, was rejected, and the original
clause carried by a large majority. The third reading of the bill came
on on the 19th of February, when it was condemned by Sir Robert Peel as
involving a serious infraction of the great principle understood to be
settled when the reform bill was passed. The bill was finally passed by
the commons, by a majority of one hundred and eighty-nine against one
hundred and seventy-two; but it was rejected in the house of lords on
the second reading, on the 8th of March. The house of commons passed
another bill, conceding tire desired relief to freemen alone; but
the session closed before the lords were called upon to take it into
consideration.


MOTION FOR THE BALLOT.

On the 15th of February Mr. Grote made his annual motion for the ballot.
The debate at this time was expected with considerable interest, because
it was generally understood to be a question which was becoming an
element of disunion in the camp of the reformers. The motion was
seconded by Mr. Ward, and supported by Mr. E. L. Bulwer. Mr. Ward,
in seconding the motion, intimated that after Lord John Russell's
declaration respecting the ballot, the extension of the suffrage, and
the duration of parliaments, the people were anxious to see how far
the other members of the administration were prepared to identify their
opinions with those of the noble lord. He represented the constituents
of Sir John Hobhouse, Mr. Poulett Thomson, Sir Hussey Vivian, and Sir
Henry Parnell as especially watching their conduct in this matter, and
concluded by expressing his conviction that anything like a government
opposition to the measure would "have for its effect the production of
a new combination most important to the country and to that house." Lord
John Russell again manfully stated his general objections to the change;
and Sir Robert Peel, in a speech of considerable power, attacked the
system of secret voting with effect. On a division, the motion was
lost by a majority of three hundred and fifteen against one hundred and
ninety-eight.


PARLIAMENTARY QUALIFICATION BILL.

During this session a bill was introduced and passed, which had for
its object the extension to personal property of the privilege hitherto
confined to real property, as regarded a qualification for parliament.
By this act, an estate for life, or for the life of another; or a term
of years of which thirteen shall be unexpired at the time of election,
or personal estate and effects of any description within the United
Kingdom, or the interest or dividends of such, may constitute either
the whole or part of the sum required to qualify a member. By another
clause, every member before he takes his seat is required to deliver
to the clerk, while the house is sitting, a paper signed by himself,
containing a statement of the real or personal property whereby he makes
out his qualification. By the same clause he is also called upon to
subscribe a declaration, that to the best of his belief he is duly
qualified to be elected a member of the house. To make a false
declaration is declared to be a misdeameanour, and the election becomes
void if the member sits or votes without complying with the provisions
of the acts. This statute, however, does not extend to the members for
the universities, to the eldest sons of peers, or to persons qualified
to be knight of the shire.


PERSONAL ATTACKS.

On the 6th of March Sir William Molesworth, with a view of bringing the
whole colonial administration of the empire before the consideration of
the house of commons, moved that an address be presented to her majesty,
respectfully expressing the opinion of the house, that in the present
critical state of many of her majesty's foreign possessions, the
colonial minister should be a person in whose diligence, activity, and
firmness the house and the public may be able to place reliance; and
declaring that her majesty's present secretary of state for the colonies
does not enjoy the confidence of the house or the country. The right
honourable baronet prefaced his motion by a speech of two hours'
duration. His speech was very moderate, although it might have appeared
that he was guided by some acrimonious feeling in selecting Lord
Glenelg for attack. Mr. Leader seconded the motion; and Lord Palmerston
undertook the defence of the colonial secretary. He would meet the
motion by a simple negative. Lord Sandon said that he had expected that
the affairs of Canada would have formed the basis of the present
motion. Lord Palmerston was right in saying that it should not have
been directed against Lord Glenelg alone, but against the entire
administration. He could not vote with Sir William Molesworth; nor could
he be content with a simple negative of his motion. He considered that
the troubles in Canada were attributable to the misconduct of ministers;
and under these circumstances he should move an amendment, in the
shape of an address to the queen, in which would be laid down his own
principles, and those of the party with whom he acted. His lordship's
address expressed the regret of the house at the treasonable movements
in Canada, and their determination to aid her in the suppression of the
revolt, and the establishment of a sound constitution; but representing
also their opinion, that the present state of things in that colony was
mainly owing to the want of foresight and energy, and to the ambiguous,
dilatory, and irresolute course of her majesty's ministers. Lord
Stanley then addressed the house, and after a speech from Sir Charles
Grey the house adjourned; and on the following evening the debate was
renewed, many members expressing their opinions on the subject. In the
course of his speech Lord John Russell directed some bitter remarks
against Lord Stanley, and said that in respect of temper and judgment he
was more comfortable now that Lord Glenelg was his colleague than he was
when the former nobleman was at the head of the colonial department.
His lordship demanded to know whether in the event of the resignation
of ministers, there existed means of forming a better administration,
or whether the tories could safely appeal to the test of a popular
election? Lord John Russell concluded by suggesting to Sir William
Molesworth the expediency of withdrawing his motion, in order that the
house might divide upon the amendment. The right honourable baronet
consented to this; but said that, for his own part, he felt precluded
from voting on either side on the amendment of Lord Sandon. On a
division ministers had a majority of twenty-nine only; the numbers
being, against the amendment, three hundred and sixteen; for it, two
hundred and eighty-seven.


REVIVAL OF ANTI-SLAVERY AGITATION, ETC.

At this period anti-slavery agitation again became the order of the
day. On the one hand there existed a large class of declaimers and needy
orators who were interested in the revival of the subject; and on
the other, there was a powerful body of humane people, to whom the
contemplation of the sufferings of the negro people had become habitual,
and who required little inducement to recur to such an exciting theme.
But there was a cause for this display of philanthropy: the slave
was still in chains, and was still suffering from the lash of the
hard-hearted driver. The legislatures also in the colonies were not free
from blame; they acted in many cases with obstinacy and intemperance;
and Jamaica especially afforded many instances of systematic violations
of the imperial law. The apprentice system, in point of fact, was a
complete failure: it produced on the part of the slaves contumacy; and
on the part of the masters breaches of the law, cruelty, and violence.
From these circumstances there was no difficulty in lighting up a flame
in England on the subject. Meetings were held and petitions got up, with
a view of hastening the time when the slave should become a man among
his fellow-men. The subject of slavery was brought before the house of
lords, on the 29th of January, by Lord Brougham, who, after presenting
a petition from Leeds, praying the immediate abolition of negro slavery,
delivered an eloquent and impassioned speech on the enormities still
committed in the slave-trade. The Duke of Wellington and Lord Glenelg
admitted that Lord Brougham's statements of the horrors of slavery were
substantially correct. In his speech his lordship had said, that British
officers were induced to allow vessels equipped for the slave-trade to
escape, in order to secure the head-money, and to wait at the mouth of
rivers till the cargoes had been shipped. Lord Minto, first lord of
the admiralty, in reply, said, that he would not assert that no single
instance of this nature had occurred; but he could say that none such
had come to his knowledge, and that he did not believe a similar
case had ever existed. He could assure their lordships that the only
complaint he had heard against British officers thus employed, was, that
they were too ready to take these vessels, and too little careful of
themselves, not attending sufficiently to their own security against
prosecutions. Every letter he received from those officers lamented
the difficulties in the way of obtaining the means of the capture and
conviction of these vessels until the cargo was embarked; and they all
pressed for the conclusion of further treaties. If those treaties could
be extended to all nations under whose flag the traffic was carrying on,
there would be no difficulty in putting it down. The case was not the
same with respect to Spain as to Portugal. With the former there was a
treaty which enabled us to capture all slavers under her flag; but our
cruisers could not capture vessels under Portuguese colours until they
had taken in their cargoes. Lord Brougham asked, if a reward according
to the tonnage of the vessel captured could not be substituted
for head-money? His views were supported by Lords Ellenborough and
Ash-burton, the latter of whom said strong measures should be taken to
compel Portugal to desist from the traffic. Lord Glenelg said, that Lord
Palmerston was engaged in negotiating a treaty with that country, with a
view of putting a stop to the trade. He thought with Lord Brougham that
our interference had aggravated the horrors of slavery; but at the same
time he contended that parliament had no alternative but to act as it
had done; and that the fear of increasing the evil ought not to
have prevented us from taking steps to extirpate the practice. The
conversation on this subject here dropped; but it was renewed again
on the 20th of February by Lord Brougham, who urged upon the house the
propriety of immediately emancipating the negro apprentices. His speech
on this occasion gained for him the golden opinions of the good and the
wise. He commenced by painting in poetic language the "delicate, calm,
and tranquil joy" which pervaded the Antilles on the day when slavery
ceased to exist. He continued to show that the predictions of those who
had declared that labour would cease when slavery was abolished, had
failed. Twice as much sugar was made under the new system; and one
planter had said, that with twenty free labourers he could do the
work of a hundred slaves. His lordship next proceeded to show that
the slave-holders had not kept faith with this country, and that the
condition of the negroes, instead of being made better, was in many
respects worse than before. They were, he said, the victims of partial
tribunals, and of excessive and illegal punishments; and he related the
case of eleven females having perished from the punishments inflicted
upon them, but whose deaths were, nevertheless, ascribed by a coroner's
jury to "the visitation of God." At the conclusion of his speech his
lordship, after moving that an address be presented to her majesty,
beseeching her to take steps for the suppression of the slave-trade,
laid these resolutions on the table:--"That the practice of paying
head-money to British cruisers should be discontinued. That letters of
marque should be issued to private individuals, empowering them to fit
out vessels for the capture of slavers. That it was expedient that the
period of prædial apprenticeship should cease on the 1st of August,
1838." The resolutions also further indicated certain regulations
for the protection of apprentices in the meantime. Lord Glenelg, in a
powerful speech, objected to Lord Brougham's propositions of issuing
letters of marque to privateers, and the discontinuance of head-money.
With respect to the condition of the apprentices in the West India
colonies, he contended that the change had been more advantageous
than Lord Brougham had supposed, although he allowed that abuses and
difficulties of a serious nature did exist. Still he did not think that
sudden emancipation would be for the advantage of the negroes; and he
must, therefore, oppose Lord Brougham's resolutions. Lord Brougham
took the sense of the house on the resolution which regarded immediate
emancipation; and on a division it was lost by a majority of thirty-one
against seven.

Soon after this the vigilance of Lord Brougham brought to light what
appeared to be a new method of establishing a slave-trade. In the
colony of British Guiana there had been an old law, which permitted the
importation of labourers without restriction. In 1836 a law was passed
by the governor and council of policy of the colony, with a view to
regulate the relations between the labourers who should come to the
colony under articles of indenture, and their employers. On being
transmitted to England for approval, the plan was considered on the
whole to be an improvement, and therefore it was sanctioned. An order
in council was issued in March, 1837, giving assent to the act of
the colonial legislature, but with several important alterations, and
especially reducing the period of service from seven to three years,
and prohibiting the introduction of labourers from Africa, or islands
peopled chiefly by the African race. Shortly after these modifications
of the law had been promulgated, an application was made for a different
regulation, to be extended to individuals from the East Indies, who, it
was said, could not be brought into the colony with any profit, unless
the term of service was prolonged to five years. This was conceded by
Lord Glenelg; and arrangements were made for the deportation of a class
of Hindoos, called "Hill Coolies," or Highland labourers, to British
Guiana. This subject was brought forward by Lord Brougham on the 6th of
March, who moved two resolutions in condemnation of the order in council
of July. In his speech he asserted that twenty-five thousand Africans
had been introduced into the Mauritius in defiance of the law; and
predicted that they were about to expose to this infernal traffic the
entire Asiatic coast. His lordship complained that no precautions had
been taken to secure proper ships, provision, or accommodation for the
labourers on their voyage. Lord Glenelg contended that Lord Brougham's
alarm was premature; that he had exaggerated the danger, and was urging
ministers to present a "barrier to the circulation of voluntary labour."
The Duke of Wellington suggested that arrangements should be made for
the superintendence of the embarkation of labourers by responsible
persons; that the nature of the bargain made should be fully explained
to the labourer; that provision should be made for his return, if he
wished it, at the expiration of his period of service; and that persons
should be appointed to go with them while on board, and on their
landing, to see the due performance of their respective bargains by the
masters and the workmen. Lord Melbourne said that Lord Brougham's
ardent imagination rendered him an unsafe guide in such matters; but
he intimated that the Duke of Wellington's suggestion should receive
attention. His grace then said that he thought it unadvisable to divide
upon Lord Brougham's motion; and therefore he would move the previous
question. On a division the previous question was carried by a large
majority; and the original motion being put, was negatived.

The subject of slavery was introduced on the 29th of March in the house
of commons, by Sir George Strickland, who moved the immediate abolition
of negro apprenticeship. The motion was seconded by Mr. Pease, and
supported by Dr. Lushington and Lord Howick. On the other hand, it was
opposed by Sir George Grey, Sir Edward Sugden, Lord John Russell, and
Mr. W. E. Gladstone; and on a division it was negatived by a majority
of two hundred and sixty-nine to two hundred and five. An attempt was
subsequently made by Sir Eardley Wilmot to obtain a resolution from the
house in favour of immediate abolition. He succeeded, his motion being
carried by a majority of ninety-six against ninety-three. Government,
however, still expressed aversion to any alteration of the present
system; and on the 28th of May Sir George Grey proposed and carried
a resolution which virtually rescinded that of Sir Eardley Wilmot, by
declaring that, in the opinion of the house, it was not advisable to
adopt any proceeding for the purpose of giving effect to the resolution
of the 26th of that month. Sir George Grey's motion was carried by a
majority of two hundred and fifty against one hundred and seventy-three.

Although slavery was still allowed to exist, yet two important bills
connected with this subject passed the legislature this session. One
of these was entitled "An act to amend the act for the abolition of
slavery;" and it contained various provisions, giving further protection
to the apprentices, and enforcing such regulations of the former act
as had been disregarded by the planters. The second bill empowered her
majesty in council to make rules for the government of the prisons in
the West Indies; to appoint inspectors of prisons; to dismiss or suspend
officers; and to determine on the fitness or unfitness of any place to
be used for the purposes of penal confinement.


DEBATES ON THE IRISH POOR-LAW BILL--THE BILL CARRIED.

It will be remembered that the Irish poor-law bill had arrived at an
advanced stage, last session, in the committee, and that many of its
important clauses had been discussed and determined, when the demise of
the crown put a stop to its further progress. The subject was renewed
on the 1st of December, when the bill was read a first time. It was
proposed that the house should go into committee on the 9th of February,
on which day Mr. O'Connell moved, as an amendment, that it be committed
that day six months. When the bill was last year before the house, he
said he had addressed them at considerable length in opposition to it.
At the same time he had avowed that he had not moral courage to take the
course of direct opposition to the measure, although perfectly convinced
of its injurious tendency. Since then he had grown both older and
firmer; and he was now determined to take the sense of the house on the
committal of the bill. He was opposed to the introduction of poor-laws
into Ireland, at least so far as regarded able-bodied persons; it might
induce them to abandon their habitual industry and economy, and prevent
them from providing for the wants of age and supervening infirmity.
Any such plan was calculated to diminish self-reliance, to paralyse
industry, to decrease economy, and, above all, to damp and extinguish
the kindly and generous feelings of nature. He further objected to
the bill, because it taxed the occupiers of lands, and involved many
difficulties of apportionment between his landlord and himself: it would
be a constant source of litigation. Besides, he contended that the mode
in which the poor-law was proposed to be carried into effect, was not
calculated to benefit Ireland: and he enlarged on the poverty of the
people in general, in order to show that they ought not to be called
upon to endure taxation to the amount of another million. Messrs. Shaw,
W. S. O'Brien, Lucas, and Redington supported the bill, though they
all thought that many of its details were objectionable. Mr. O. Gore
supported Mr. O'Con-nell's amendment, he objecting to the workhouse
system as prejudicial to the best habits and feelings of the Irish.
Other members, as Messrs. Barron, Young, and Litton, supported the
measure; while others, as Mr. J. Gibson and Sir F. French, opposed
it. On a division the original motion was carried by a majority of two
hundred and seventy-seven against twenty-five.

The house went into committee on the 12th of February. The third reading
of the bill came on on the 30th of April, when Mr. O'Connell again
endeavoured to arrest its progress. His opposition, however, was
bootless: it passed the house of commons by a majority of two hundred
and thirty-four against fifty-nine.


MOTION FOR THE REPEAL OF THE APPROPRIATION CLAUSE--MINISTERIAL PLAN FOR
SETTLING THE TITHE QUESTION.

On the 14th of May Sir Thomas Acland moved for the repeal of the
appropriation clause. Lord John Russell had previously given notice that
he would bring forward his resolutions concerning Irish tithes; and in
moving that the speaker should leave the chair, the noble lord said that
it had been his original intention to refrain from saying a single word,
and to reserve his remarks to the time when the house should go into
committee. It had pleased the gentlemen opposite, however, to give
notice that they meant to interpose another question in order to raise
a debate, and produce a division, before allowing the resolutions to be
considered in committee. He should consider the proposition made by Sir
Thomas Acland in two points of view; with reference to its object of
producing discord and bitterness of feeling in the house, and how far
such a course was conformable to the professions made by gentlemen
opposite with respect to the Irish church. After descanting at
considerable length on the subject of the alliance of the church
and state generally, and the small influence which the Irish church
exercised over the people, the noble lord went on to unfold his scheme.
The existing tithe-composition, he said, would be converted into a
rent-charge at the rate of £70 for every £100; and he proposed that the
rent-charge should, with a saving of existing interests, be redeemed by
the government at the rate of sixteen years' purchase on the full sum
of £100. The money received in redemption of the rent-charge he proposed
should be invested in land, or in such other way as the ecclesiastical
commissioners should advise; and the rent-charges themselves, when
purchased, should go towards a fund, from which £160,000 should be
paid yearly to the constabulary force of Ireland; £20,000 to the Dublin
police; £70,000 to the expense of criminal informations; and £100,000
for the purposes of education, instead of the £50,000 now voted annually
for that purpose; any surplus was to be applied to charitable purposes.
After developing his plan, Lord John Russell descanted on the obstinacy
and exorbitance of the clergy, and then attacked Sir T. Acland's motion.
He commenced this part of his speech by quoting the Duke of Wellington's
declared desire to see the Irish questions brought to a settlement,
contending that the present motion was not in accordance with that
declaration. With respect to the principle of the appropriation
resolutions, his opinion was unaltered: it was a wise and just
principle, and he could not consent to its reversal: it would imply
a stigma upon ministers which he could not endure. Sir Thomas Acland,
however, rose to move that the resolutions of the 7th and 8th of April,
1835, should be read; and after addressing the house at considerable
length, he further moved that they should be rescinded. The motion was
seconded by Sir Eardley Wilmot. After a long speech from Lord Stanley,
and a few words from Lord Morpeth in defence of government, the house
was adjourned till the following day, when Mr. Litton renewed the
discussion by delivering a speech in favour of Sir T. Acland's
amendment. Messrs. Young, Laseelles, Bennett, and Lord Sandon also
supported it; while Messrs. Redington and Townley opposed it. Mr.
O'Connell remarked that the real question before the house was, how
should Ireland be governed? This was the question that had been under
discussion for seven hundred years. Should Ireland, he asked, be
governed by a section? A loud shout interrupted the speaker, and in the
midst of continued uproar, he continued thus:--"I thank you for that
shriek. Many a shout of insolent domination, despicable and contemptible
as it is, have I heard against my country."--[Here the speaker
interfered]--"Let them shout; it is a senseless yell--the spirit of a
party. Ireland will hear their shrieks. They may want us again. What
would Waterloo have been if we had not been there? I ask not that
question for the renowned commander-in-chief, who is himself an
Irishman, but for the hardy soldiery of Ireland, who fought the battle
for him. I say again, that is the question." In conclusion, Mr. O'Connell
admitted that the ministerial plan did not go far enough, but he was
ready to accede to it for the sake of an amicable arrangement. Sir
Robert Peel and other members addressed the house, a discussion ensued,
when Sir Thomas Acland's motion was lost by a majority of three hundred
and seventeen against two hundred and ninety-eight. On the following day
Lord John Russell gave the house distinctly to understand that the tithe
measure would solely consist of a proposition to the effect that the
composition then existing should be converted into a rent-charge.


COMMITTEE OF THE HOUSE OF COMMONS UPON THE IRISH MUNICIPAL BILL--THE
BILL REJECTED, ETC.

On the 29th of May Lord John Russell moved that the house should go into
committee on the Irish municipal corporation bill. Sir Robert Peel then
rose and stated his views and intentions with respect to the two great
Irish questions.

The consideration of the subject was renewed on the 1st of June, when,
the house being in committee, Mr. Shaw moved that schedules A and
B should be consolidated, so that there should be but two schedules
instead of three; the first to contain the towns to which corporations
were to be given with an uniform ten-pound franchise; and the second to
contain those in which the majority of the ten-pound householders might,
according to their option, be incorporated. Mr. Shaw further proposed
that Sir Robert Peel's mode of estimating the qualification of electors
should be adopted. Lord John Russell consented to that part of the
proposition which regarded the distribution of towns to be incorporated,
but at the same time intimated that government considered an uniform
ten-pound franchise too high a qualification. On this point, indeed, the
two parties were at issue, for Lord John Russell proposed a five-pound
assessment as the qualification, while Sir Robert Peel advocated the
ten-pound assessment. On the 11th of June Sir Robert moved to substitute
the latter for the former sum; but on a division it was negatived by
a majority of two hundred and eighty-six against two hundred and
sixty-six. The bill came on for the third reading on the 25th of June,
when Lord Francis Egerton moved that it should be read that day three
months; but on a division the bill passed by a majority of one hundred
and sixty-nine against one hundred and thirty-four.

The bill came under deliberation in the house of lords on the 12th of
July, and it was read a third time on the 27th of the same month. The
lords, however, had, on the motion of Lord Lyndhurst, substituted
the ten-pound for the five-pound franchise, and had also made further
alterations in the bill at the instigation of the same noble lord. When
the bill in its amended shape came under the consideration of the
house of commons on the 2nd of August, Lord John Russell entered into
a detailed examination of these amendments. In order to settle the
question of the franchise, he proposed that a rated house of eight
pounds rent should confer it; and he carried this by a majority of one
hundred and sixty-nine against one hundred and fifty-four. A variety of
alterations were then introduced into the other amendments of the lords,
and the bill was once more sent up to that house. A conference took
place, but with no effect, and the matter ended by Lord John Russell
moving in the house of commons that "the lords' amendments should be
further considered that day three months." The bill, therefore, was
again laid aside, and that for the most part from a difference of a
pound or two in the qualification. The great principle of granting
popular corporations to the Irish towns was conceded by the
Conservatives; but they would not overlook the trifling difference
contested by them and their opponents in the qualification.

[Illustration: 589.jpg CORONATION CHAIR]


THE CORONATION.

The coronation of Queen Victoria took place on the 28th of June.
The principal novel feature of this august ceremony consisted in the
substitution of a procession through the streets of London for the
banquet in Westminster-hall. The result of this change justified
the departure from an ancient usage. The people of all ages, sexes,
conditions, professions, arts, and trades assembled on that day to greet
their youthful sovereign. The ceremony was conducted with great
harmony: happiness and cheerful good humour prevailed among the enormous
multitude which thronged the streets; and courtesy and self-restraint
were everywhere conspicuous. The coronation was succeeded by a series
of fetes and banquets, and many weeks elapsed before the metropolis
had ceased to hold festivals in its remembrance. In a word, the utmost
enthusiasm for the youthful sovereign prevailed on every hand, and gave
promise of a happy and glorious reign.

It was stated in the house of commons shortly after the coronation that
the expenses incurred for the coronation of George IV. were £243,000,
and that the expenses incurred for that of his successor did not exceed
£50,000. On the present occasion the charges amounted to about £70,000,
and the chancellor of the exchequer, in explaining the cause of this
excess, said, that it was in no respect occasioned by any portion of
the ceremony as regarded the sovereign, but for enabling the people to
participate in the national festivity. The public, he continued, had
voluntarily paid for seats commanding a view of the procession not less
than £200,000; and four hundred thousand persons had visited London
for the purpose of witnessing the ceremony. He added:--"Never was there
given to a sovereign, or to a country, a more exalted proof of good
conduct and discretion, than was afforded by the assembled multitude on
this occasion."


DEBATES IN THE HOUSE OF COMMONS ON THE IRISH TITHE QUESTION.

On the 2nd of July the house of commons proceeded to take Lord John
Russell's tithe resolutions into consideration. On the motion for
going into committee, Mr. Ward condemned ministers for abandoning the
appropriation principle, and moved a series of resolutions for the
appropriation of the surplus revenues of the Irish church to the moral
and religious education of all classes. Mr. Hawes seconded and Mr. Hume
supported the motion. Mr. O'Connell, however, opposed it, contending
that it led to a deception and delusion: it offered to the Irish people
something as the purchase-money of a tithe bill, which bill they had
refused unanimously to take. Their determination was not to pay tithe;
and he required that provision should be made for the established church
of Ireland out of the consolidated fund, and that the tithe fund should
be applied to the maintenance of peace in the country. By converting
tithes into a rent-charge, they would turn landlords into tithe
proprietors; and would further throw many landlords into the ranks of
White-boys. Mr. Harvey said that three years ago he was denounced by Mr.
O'Connell for not supporting the motion which his learned friend was now
opposing. On a division Mr. Ward's motion was rejected by two hundred
and seventy against forty-six. On the house going into committee, Mr.
Shaw moved, as an amendment, that twenty-five instead of thirty per
cent, should be substituted. This amendment was carried by a majority of
one hundred and eighty-eight against one hundred and sixty-seven.

In a preceding year one million sterling had been voted by parliament
for the relief of tithe-owners who had been unable to pay their dues;
and out of this sum they had by this time actually received £640,000. At
the time of the grant it was intended that the advances should be repaid
as soon as the tenants should pay up their arrears. That event was not
likely to happen; for, since the grant had been made, a new arrear of
tithes had accrued. It was now generally agreed that repayment of the
money advanced should not be required; but it became a question how far
the fresh arrears were to be settled. Sir Robert Peel suggested that
a commission should be appointed to ascertain the entire amount of the
tithe, and the nature of each particular case; and that in proportion
to that amount, and with due regard to individual circumstances, the sum
remaining of the million not yet advanced should be distributed among
the respective tithe-owners in purchase of their interests. According
to his plan, if a landlord owned tithe, he was not to be included in
the proposition; but where the debtors were occupying tenants, there
tithe-owners were to have the option of enforcing their claims, or of
accepting their proportion of the fund, and exonerating their debtors:
government was also to have the right of proceeding against the tenant
at their option. This proposition was favourably received; and, on July
16th, Lord John Russell, when the house resumed the consideration of
the bill in committee, adopted it with some slight modifications. On
the 26th of July the bill came on for the third reading. Mr. D. Browne
moved, that the bill be read that day six months; in doing which he
contended for a total abolition of tithes. On a division the bill was
carried by a majority of one hundred and forty-eight against thirty; and
thus terminated the contests concerning "the appropriation clause." The
adoption of it had assisted the Whigs in their return to power; and the
sacrifice of it enabled them to maintain office.

Lord Melbourne brought the Irish tithe-bill before the house of lords on
the 3rd of August. After descanting on the million loan and the arrears,
his lordship remarked that it was obvious, unless they closed up all
questions with reference to arrears, they would not be giving the
measure fair play. This bill directed the lord lieutenant to remit to
the clergy the instalments due from them in respect of the loan; and the
residue of the million was to be applied in satisfaction of the arrears,
according to the claims of the spiritual tithe-owners, which had
been accruing during the last four years. Nothing was said of the
"appropriation clause" by his lordship: on which Lord Brougham
remarked:--"I had not looked to see the day when appropriation should be
given to the winds, as if the thing had never been talked of--as if it
never had been the means of seating one ministry and unseating another."

The bill was read a third time on the 9th of August, Lord Clancarty
alone raising a dissentient voice.


THE IRISH POOR-LAW BILL CARRIED IN THE LORDS.

On the 21st of May Lord Melbourne moved the second reading of the Irish
poor-law bill in the lords. The motion was opposed by Earl Fitzwilliam,
who said that he was opposed to the whole principle of poor-laws. As for
the present bill, he said, it could never be carried into effect; it
was not an Irish bill, nor was it a bill desired either by the landed
interests, the middling gentry, or the poorest classes of Ireland.
The Marquis of Londonderry also opposed the bill; while the Duke of
Wellington recommended their lordships to give it a second reading, with
a view of amending it in committee. Lord Lynd-hurst, having adverted to
the unpopularity of the bill in Ireland, and cautioned their lordships
against setting themselves up as better judges than the Irish people
themselves of what was best calculated to promote the interests of that
nation, said he should not object to a trial of the bill, provided
he thought that they would, in the event of failure, return to their
original situation. His lordship then stated his various objections to
the proposed bill; but, in conclusion, intimated his intention of voting
for the second reading, in the hope that it might be brought into a
better state in committee. The Marquis of Clanricarde, Lord Brougham,
and the Marquis of Westmeath opposed the bill; and Lord Radnor and the
Earl of Devon supported it. On a division the second reading was
carried by a majority of one hundred and forty-nine against twenty.
In committee, Earl Fitzwilliam moved an am end-mend to the forty-first
clause, by which he limited the relief under the bill to age, bodily
infirmity, &c.; and he was supported by Lord Fitzgerald and Vesci, who
contended that the operations of the bill would be mischievous; but
it was not carried. On the 31st the latter noble lord moved another
amendment, empowering the guardians to relieve in poor-houses "all
destitute persons who are either incurably lame, or blind, or sick, or
labouring under permanent bodily infirmity;" also all orphan children
left in a state of destitution. Ministers, however, succeeded in
carrying the original clause of the bill by a majority of one hundred
and seven to forty-one. Subsequently some amendments were made in the
minor details of the bill, and it was read a third time on the 9th of
July, and carried by a majority of ninety-three against thirty-one.
The momentous experiment, therefore, of introducing a poor-law into a
country where the people were everywhere opposed to it was to be tried.


PROJECTED FORMATION OF A COLONY IN NEW ZEALAND, ETC.

At this period an association had been formed for the purpose of
colonizing New Zealand, under certain grants of territory which had been
obtained from the native authorities. During this session an application
for a parliamentary sanction to the undertaking was made, and Mr. F.
Baring, on the 23rd of June, moved the second reading of a bill to
establish the said colony. Sir George Grey opposed the motion. The bill
was also opposed by Sir Walter James, Lord Sandon, and Messrs. Goulbourn
and Pease, while Messrs. Hutt and P. Howard pointed out the advantages
which would accrue to Great Britain from the measure. The bill was
rejected by a majority of ninety-two against thirty-two.


FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, ETC.

The navy estimates were presented to the house of commons on the 5th of
March, when Mr. C. Wood moved a resolution to the effect, that there be
employed in the fleet for the next thirteen lunar months, ending on the
31st of March, 1839, 33,665 men including 2,000 boys and 9,000 marines.
After some opposition, this motion was agreed to; as was another, made
by Lord Howick, on the 12th of the same month, to the effect that
89,305 men should be raised for her majesty's land-forces. The ordnance
estimates were moved by Sir Hussey Vivian on the 27th of April, and
these, likewise, were granted. The chancellor of the exchequer presented
his financial statement on the 18th of May, when it appeared that the
past year had been one of increased expenditure and diminished receipt.
The estimate of revenue, he said, had amounted to £47,240,000, while the
actual income did not exceed £46,090,000. The estimate of expenditure
had been £47,873,000, and the actual expenditure £47,519,000; so that
there existed a deficiency of £1,428,000. But, continued Mr. Rice, if
the house would compare the income and expenditure of the two years
1836 and 1837, they would find a surplus of income; and he showed that,
taking these two years together, and comparing the anticipation with the
actual results, there was no deficiency. The right honourable gentleman
proceeded to say that he calculated the income of the next year would
be £47,271,803, and the expenditure £47,479,000. Here, also, would be a
deficiency; and the question arose, how was this deficiency to be
met? There was no ground for considering it permanent; and he should
therefore propose to take the course adopted by parliament on former
similar occasions. In 1827 Mr. Canning found himself with a deficiency
of £2,900,000, and he met it by a resort to a corresponding issue of
exchequer-bills. Mr. Spring Rice intimated that he should follow the
same course, and should ask for a vote of credit to the extent of a few
hundred thousand pounds only.


MOTION FOR THE REPEAL OF THE CORN-LAWS.

On the 15th of March Mr. Villiers moved for a committee of the whole
house to consider the act of 9 George IV. c. 60, relating to the
importation of corn. In his speech he remarked that the purpose and
principle of the corn-laws were protection to the landed interest. It
was alleged that the British farmers could not compete with the foreign
grower without protection. He considered this principle indefinite and
unjust. The motion was seconded by Sir William Molesworth, who drew a
gloomy picture of the operation of the corn-laws. Through them, he
said, there was an excess of farmers without farm, shopkeepers without
customers, lawyers without briefs, clergymen without cure of souls,
doctors without patients, sailors and soldiers without employment;
besides shoals of architects, painters, surveyors, tutors, clerks, and
others. All these classes were uneasy, and the victims of competition.
The corn-laws had further the effect of producing great immorality:
people either could not marry, or were obliged to many late in life, and
consequently there was an excess of unmarried women! Hence immorality
prevailed, and every foreigner who visited the land was shocked at the
exhibition of profligacy in the streets. Only a few members supported
the motion, which was consequently lost.

On a subsequent evening Colonel Seale proposed that foreign corn in this
country should, under certain restrictions, be permitted to be ground
while in bond, and exported, security being given for its exportation.
The object of this measure was to enable merchants trading to foreign
countries, and shipowners, to lay in their supplies in the ports of
the United Kingdom, instead of being compelled to obtain them, as at
present, from the Baltic. The Marquis of Chandos contended that this
measure would repeal the corn-laws: extensive frauds would take place,
and a great alteration ensue in the price of corn. On the other hand,
Messrs. Warburton and Poulett Thomson argued that the agricultural
interest would not suffer from it in the least degree. The latter said
that no fraud could take place, and he entered into details to show that
the preservation of the whole revenue of the country depended upon the
security afforded by the bonded warehouses. Corn could not be smuggled
out of them more easily than sugar and tobacco, &c, on which much higher
duties were payable. After hearing these statements of Mr. Thomson,
several members intimated their disposition to make a concession upon so
immaterial a point. Colonel Seale's motion was carried by a majority
of one hundred and twenty-seven against ninety-two, but the bill was,
notwithstanding, thrown out on the second reading, by a majority of two
hundred and twenty against one hundred and fifty.


VARIOUS IMPROVEMENTS IN THE LAW.

An important alteration in the law took place this session, in the
abolition of imprisonment for debt on mesne process. Public attention
had been for some time directed to this subject; and during last session
a bill passed the house of commons with reference to it, but at too late
a period to admit of its discussion in the upper house. On the 5th of
December the lord-chancellor brought the subject before the lords, by
moving the second reading of a similar bill. Many of the details of the
bill, however, were thought to be so defective, that it was referred
to the consideration of a select committee. The lord-chancellor again
presented his bill, as altered and amended by the committee, on the 12th
of June. In his exposition of the measure, his lordship stated that it
would empower creditors to get possession of various descriptions of
property, which were at present exempt from execution. Thus the bill
would authorize the sheriff to seize cash, bank-notes, and bills of
exchange; and, under the authority of a judge's order, and with certain
restrictions, stock in the public funds would be available to the
creditor. These and similar provisions were framed for the purpose of
doing justice to the creditor, by enabling him, if possible, to obtain
payment out of his debtor's property. Having effected this object it
seemed but right to abolish imprisonment on mesne process. Still, to
prevent fraud, it was necessary to secure to the creditor the right of
seizing the debtor's person in certain cases. The bill, moreover, would
authorize a judge, on the creditor's application, to issue a warrant
to restrain a fraudulent debtor from leaving the country before he had
surrendered his property. Lords Brougham and Abingdon commended the
measure as far as it went; but they still thought it incomplete. The
bill was read a third time and passed; and after some minor alterations
had been introduced in it by the commons, it finally became law. Another
useful act passed during this session was one which facilitated the
recovery of possession of tenements after the determination of the
tenancy. This bill empowered any two justices at petty-sessions,
in certain cases, and after proof given of the determination of the
tenancy, and of the refusal of the tenant to render possession, to issue
their warrant to the peace-officers of the place, directing them to
enter, by force, if needful, upon the premises unlawfully held over,
and to give possession of the same to the landlord or to his agent; such
entry to be made not less than twenty, and not more than thirty days
from the date of the warrant. The provisions of this bill, however,
are confined to premises held at will, or for less than a term of
seven years, and which are let for less than £20 per annum, without the
reservation of a fine.

In the course of this session, a bill for securing to authors, in
certain cases, the benefit of international copyright passed the
legislature, and which enabled her majesty in council to direct that the
authors of books published abroad shall have a copyright here, provided
there be a reciprocal protection in favour of this country in the state
in which such publications first make their appearance.


A SELECT COMMITTEE TO INQUIRE INTO THE OPERATION OF THE POOR-LAWS.

During the past and the present year the New Poor-law was exposed to a
severe trial. Distress, from a severe winter and the high price of corn,
abounded on every hand, while in various parts of the country local
and temporary causes operated unfavourably to the labourer. Under these
circumstances, the New Poor-law encountered great opposition, and this
appeared to be becoming progressively formidable. In the northern
parts of the country, indeed, Tories, Whigs, and Radicals alike arrayed
themselves against it, all agreeing to seek its entire abolition. The
subject had been introduced into the commons as early as the 27th of
November of the past year, when Lord John Russell moved for a select
committee to inquire into the operation of the New Poor-law. This
afforded, however, but little satisfaction to the opponents of the
measure; and on the 20th of February Mr. Fielden moved for a repeal of
the act itself. He was seconded by Mr. Wakley; and, in the course of the
evening, a discussion ensued, in which many members took part. Those
who spoke generally concurred in the impolicy of taking any steps in
the question until the committee should have made its report. Sir
Robert Peel bore testimony to the merits of the bill; remarking that,
considering the magnitude of the experiment, which had been but four
years under trial, it was as satisfactory as any man could expect. On
a division, the motion was rejected by a majority of three hundred and
nine against seventeen.

The commissioners made their report on the 4th of August. It had
been proposed to authorize the guardians to relieve the families of
labourers, by taking one or more of their children into the workhouse.
The report stated, "that in the practical application of this exception,
it would be difficult to avoid the establishment of a system similar in
principle to the scale system; i. e. a regular allowance, in addition to
the labourer's earnings, depending on the number of his children and the
rate of wages." It had further been proposed to obviate the hardship of
obliging a man to part with his cottage and furniture, and take up his
abode, with his family, in the workhouse, by admitting the head of the
family only into that establishment, and leaving his family at home. The
report stated an objection to this proposal thus:--"The small degree of
inconvenience sustained by the labourer by a temporary sojourn in the
workhouse, whilst his wife and family remain at home, ceases altogether
to have the effect upon the employer which is produced by the strict
workhouse system; namely, the creating a great reluctance, on his part,
to lose temporarily the services of the labourer, lest he should find
it impossible to regain them; and a desire so to arrange the work of
his farm, as to afford employment, during the unfavourable part of the
season, to those upon whose assistance he must rely for the necessary
services during the more active periods of the year." The report
proceeded to notice other particulars of the system, as the migration of
families from the southern to the northern counties; and the emigration
of others to the Australian colonies. It remarked, that the most
important and characteristic circumstance of the last twelve months had
been the extreme severity of a long winter, and the continuance of the
interruption to manufacturing industry which had commenced in 1836. From
this circumstance the guardians of various unions had been induced to
give out-door relief to able-bodied male paupers, but the commissioners
were of opinion that, with few exceptions, it might have been safely
withheld.


COMBINATIONS IN ENGLAND AND IRELAND.

For some years combinations of workmen for the purpose of regulating
the rate of wages, and other matters connected with the employment of
labour, had been permitted by law to exist. At this time, however,
these confederacies had become formidable. "Strikes" were constantly
recurring, so that the masters lay at the mercy of the operatives. Thus
at Ashton fifty-two mills and thirty thousand persons were thrown out
of work, by the "strike" of three thousand "coarse spinners," who could
clear at the time about thirty shillings per week; and at Manchester one
thousand "fine spinners" struck work, because the masters would not pay
them more than thirty-five shillings per week. At Glasgow, where the
cotton-spinners had been long noted for the violent and arbitrary
proceedings of their confederacy, five individuals connected with their
body were taken up, charged with murder, attempts at arson, and other
grave offences of a similar character. On their trial, the evidence
disclosed some revolting details of the practices and formidable
organization of the cotton-spinners' union of Glasgow; but the jury
found the prisoners guilty of the minor charges only, and they
were transported for seven years. There was much in these judicial
proceedings that, in the opinion of Lord Brougham and Mr. Wakley,
required correction, and accordingly they brought the subject under the
consideration of parliament, each in their respective spheres.

The subject was introduced by Mr. Wakley in the house of commons,
by moving for a select committee to inquire into the constitution,
practices, and effects of the association of operative cotton-spinners
in Glasgow and its neighbourhood. Mr. O'Connell moved, by way of
amendment, for a select committee to inquire into trades' unions and
combinations generally, in the United Kingdom. He remarked that
there was no tyranny equal to that which was exercised by the trades'
unionists in Dublin. He had in vain wished to convince those people of
the wickedness and impolicy of their proceedings. Hour after hour had
he had interviews with the deputation from the various trades, and had
seldom met with men of more ability, information, or skill, in putting
forward their own views. He had also challenged discussion, and two
assemblies had been held for that purpose; but the workmen had concerted
interruption, and they could not proceed in the business of the day. He
could not be heard, and they expressed their determination to persist in
their system of outrage. Mr. O'Connell proceeded to detail some of the
more prominent regulations of the combination. One of their rules was
to limit the number of apprentices; another prescribed a minimum rate of
wages, so that the best workmen received no more than the worst; and
by a third the masters were deprived of all freedom in their power of
selecting workmen. The honourable gentleman then proceeded to relate
some instances of the prejudicial effects of combination on the
manufacturing industry of the country; and he concluded by adverting to
the murders and outrages committed by stipendiary assassins acting under
the authority of the unions, and by asserting that he had no wish
to re-enact the old combination laws. Some combinations were even
meritorious: his aim would be to separate unions of this kind from those
of a pernicious character. The chancellor of the exchequer paid some
just compliments to Mr. O'Connell for the course he had pursued with
respect to this subject, and said that he proposed a second amendment,
which did not materially differ from that of the member for Dublin. He
moved for a select committee to inquire into the operation of the 6th
of George IV., and into the general constitution of trades' unions, and
also the combinations of workmen and masters in the United Kingdom. Mr.
Wakley expressed himself satisfied to leave the question in the hands
of her majesty's ministers, and the chancellor of the exchequer's motion
was agreed to without a division.


JOHN THOM. ALIAS SIR WILLIAM COURTENAY.

A few years back an individual of the name of John Nicholls Thorn
left his home in Cornwall, and went into the county of Kent. Here he
exchanged his name for the more euphonious one of Sir William Courtenay,
Knight of Malta, and he commenced a practice of parading his naturally
commanding person before the admiring people, clad in rich costumes, and
pouring forth streams of exciting and persuasive eloquence. Attracted by
his romantic appearance, the populace flocked round him with the wildest
enthusiasm; and even the superior classes of society, furnished him with
partizans. In 1833 he became a candidate for the representation of the
city of Canterbury, and he succeeded so far as to poll nine hundred and
fifty votes. Not long after, however, he was found to be implicated in
a transaction which resulted in his conviction for perjury, and he was
sentenced to six years' transportation. Decided symptoms of insanity
having exhibited themselves, instead of being sent on board the hulks,
in conformity with the act 9th George IV., he was removed from Maidstone
gaol to the county lunatic asylum. He remained here four years, and at
the expiration of that period, Lord John Russell, in virtue of a power
conferred on him as secretary of state by the same act, delivered him up
to his friends upon their engaging to take care of him. His friends ill
discharged their duty; for in 1838 John Thom reappeared in Kent, and
this time under a higher title than that of baronet: he claimed to be,
and the people acknowledged his pretensions as, another Messiah. The
delusion led to the "Canterbury riots," in which a constable was shot by
Thom himself, and Lieutenant Bennet was killed by some of his
enthusiastic followers. Thom on his trial was proved to be of unsound
mind; and several of his followers were sentenced to be transported,
some for life, and others for longer or shorter periods of time,
according to the parts they had acted in the tragical scene.


COMMITTEE ON CHURCH LANDS.

It has been seen in a former page that a committee had been appointed
to ascertain the probable amount of any increased value which might be
obtained by an improved management of church property. On the 3rd of
May Lord John Russell proposed the reappointment of this committee. He
estimated the revenue of the church of England at £3,439,767, and
he calculated this income would admit of considerable increase. With
respect to the disposal of such additional revenue, when obtained,
his lordship said that both himself and colleagues held it as a
fixed principle that it ought to be devoted to a purpose clearly and
intimately connected with the church. Many honourable members were
of opinion that such a fund should be applied to the education of the
people: government would prefer to dedicate it to the repairs of the
fabric of the church itself. His lordship then entered into details to
show that the present system of managing church property was improvident
and unsatisfactory; and that the funds of the church were often disposed
of in a way contrary to their original purposes, and not desirable
for the spiritual interests of the country. By proper arrangements he
expected that an annual surplus of £300,000 might be secured. The motion
was opposed by Mr. Liddell, who, in moving a direct negative to it,
observed that government had been stimulated to stir this "mischievous
question, and unsettle men's minds and properties by the clamour of
persons hostile to the church." The church of Durham, he said, was the
great object of their appetency. It certainly had rich possessions, but
then its charities were in proportion. It had, moreover, crying wants:
many of its cures were underpaid, and many new churches were requisite,
for which there were no adequate means of endowment. The honourable
gentleman concluded by saying, that should the motion for a committee
be carried, he would further move the addition to it of the following
words:--"with a view of applying such amount to the gradual diminution
of the evils which flow from the deficiency in the means of religious
instruction and pastoral superintendence by ministers of the established
church." The original motion was carried by a majority of two hundred
and seventy-seven against two hundred and forty-one; and Mr. Lid-dell's
second amendment was lost by a majority of two hundred and sixty-five
against two hundred and fifty-four.


ACT FOR ABOLISHING PLURALITIES, ETC.

During this session an act was passed for "abridging pluralities," and
for making better provision for the residence of the clergy. This bill
enacts that no person holding more benefices than one shall accept and
hold any cathedral preferment or other benefice; and that no person
holding preferment in one cathedral shall hold any in another, with
certain exceptions in favour of archdeacons. The bill further enacts
that two benefices are not to be enjoyed together, unless within ten
miles of each other, nor if the population of the one exceeds three
thousand, or the joint revenue £1,000, unless the yearly value of
the one fall short of £150, while the population exceeds two thousand
persons; in which case the bishop of the diocese may authorize the two
to be held jointly, though at the same time it was made necessary to
obtain a dispensation from the Archbishop of Canterbury. By another
clause of the bill any spiritual person in the possession of preferment
is prohibited from farming more than eighty acres of land without the
consent of his diocesan, and from engaging in any trade, unless in
cases where the number of partners exceed six, or where the share in a
business may devolve upon the individual by operation of law; but in
no case may such person carry on or manage trade personally. The bill
finally empowers the bishops to grant dispensations to their clergy from
residing in the parsonage-houses when unfit to be occupied, provided
that the residence selected be within a certain distance of the cure,
and further enumerates a variety of other instances in which the bishops
may grant licences for non-residence.

During this session also, in consequence of a recent decision in the
court of exchequer, that it was unlawful for a clergyman to be a member
of a joint-stock company, an act was passed, altering the law on that
head. In 1817, an act had been passed prohibiting all spiritual persons
from engaging in any trade for gain or profit, and imposing a penalty
upon transgressors of the law. It also declared the acts of any
partnership into which such spiritual person had been introduced to be
null and void.

On the 22nd of February the Earl of Ripon announced to the house of
lords that the ecclesiastical commissioners had resolved to recommend
the continuance of the bishopric of Sodor and Man as a separate see,
and not to unite it with the diocese of Carlisle, as had been proposed.
During this session, therefore, a bill was passed for continuing the see
upon its original footing.


THE SUBJECT OF EDUCATION DISCUSSED IN PARLIAMENT.

On the 1st of December Lord Brougham brought the subject of national
education under the consideration of the house of lords. His lordship's
plan was disclosed in two bills, corresponding with that which he had
brought forward in the preceding session, and which were only separated
for the sake of convenience. The measure of Lord Brougham seems to have
been conceived in an enlightened spirit, and its outline exhibits
many excellent features; but it was clear that there would be great
difficulty in carrying out its details. The bill was generally approved
of, and was read a first time, but it did not come again under the
consideration of parliament during this session.


THE QUESTION OF CANADA RENEWED.

While parliament was sitting, Lord Durham sailed for his seat of
government in Canada; and news arrived of his first acts in that
province. Before his lordship had sailed, however, attacks were
made upon him by the opposition, although they had exercised so much
forbearance towards him at the outset of his mission.

The main attack on Lord Durham was opened in the house of lords on the
30th of July. Of the many important matters which Lord Durham found on
his arrival in Canada unsettled, the disposal of the state prisoners was
"by far the most delicate and dangerous." This difficulty was increased
by the restrictions which the home-government had thought it expedient
to impose upon the governor-in-chief. These restrictions were contained
in a letter written by Lord Glenelg, and were to this effect:--"From the
very commencement of the late disturbances it has been, as your lordship
is aware, the earnest desire of the government, that the utmost lenity
compatible with the public safety should be exercised towards the
insurgents. This is a principle inculcated in my various despatches
to the authorities of Lower and Upper Canada, and it is a principle
supported by considerations, not only of humanity, which cannot be in
such cases admitted as the exclusive test of right conduct, but also of
true policy, in reference to the well-being of the Canadas. You will,
I am persuaded, enter into the views of the government on this subject;
and in order to enable you to act with promptitude in this respect,
you are relieved from the restrictions by which your predecessors
were prevented, in case of treason, from giving an absolute pardon, or
granting more than a respite, till the royal pleasure should be known.
The power thus entrusted to you, of granting an amnesty or pardon in all
cases, should, in the opinion of her majesty's government, be exercised
largely, but not entirely without exception. Independently of persons
committed on charges of murder, to whose cases I have referred in my
despatch of the 19th of March to Sir J. Colborne, as exceptions to the
class of cases fit to be included in an amnesty, there must probably
among the prisoners be some flagrant and prominent cases of delinquency,
which it would not be just or advisable to comprehend in the general
lenity. These cases it will be for you to select, in order that they may
be brought to trial. In the constitution of the tribunals before which
these prisoners are to be arraigned, and in the conduct of these trials,
her majesty's government are, after full deliberations, satisfied that
there should be no further deviation from the established mode of legal
procedure, than was sanctioned in my despatch to Sir J. Colborne. You
will, therefore, bring them to trial in the usual manner before the
courts of justice, as at present constituted for the trial of criminal
offences. By the verdict of the ordinary juries, the fate of the
prisoners must be decided.... Except in cases of murder, capital
punishments should be avoided." In dealing with this difficult subject
Lord Durham availed himself of the assistance of his special council,
the members of which were Vice-admiral Sir Charles Paget, Major-general
Sir James Mac-donnell, Colonel Couper, the governor's military
secretary, and principal aide-de-camp, Colonel Grey, and Mr. Charles
Buller. The council met on the 18th of June; but it was not for the
purposes of consultation that Lord Durham convened his board, for on the
very day on which they were summoned to meet, appeared the celebrated
ordinance, by which Lord Brougham not only accomplished his fall, but
contrived that all the odium of the transaction should attach to the
ministers themselves The nature of this ordinance will be clearly seen
in the following debates which took place in both houses of parliament.

On the day before mentioned (30th July), when the attack was opened on
Lord Durham in the upper house, Lord Brougham called the attention of
the peers to the ordinance which had been passed by the noble governor
of Canada, asserting that if carried into effect it would involve the
crime of murder, the whole proceeding being at variance with law. Seven
days after, Lord Brougham renewed the attack. No power, he said, to
inflict pains and penalties upon individuals who had not been brought to
trial, which that ordinance usurped, was conferred upon Lord Durham.
He might make general laws for the good government of the colony, but
subject to an exception which restrained him from altering any act
of the British parliament. The ordinance in question contravened the
provisions of the act 7th William III. "for the trial of treasonable
offences;" and if Lord Durham had the power of dispensing with that act,
he might condemn in every case as traitors men against whom no witnesses
had been examined, and into whose alleged offences no inquiry had
been made. Lord Glenelg remarked that Lord Durham had been placed in
a situation of extreme difficulty: he had been solicited for extreme
punishments on the one hand, and for a complete amnesty on the other;
he had adopted a middle course, and when his decision was announced, it
gave general satisfaction. Lord Brougham replied, that the noble earl
might have accomplished all he was desirous of doing without a breach of
the law. If he had said to parties accused or suspected, "I won't bring
you to trial, if you conduct yourselves properly," he would have acted
in a legal manner; but instead of doing this, he said, "I shall send
you to Bermuda; and if you leave that island, I declare you guilty of
high-treason."' Lord Melbourne deprecated such rigid criticism. He owned
that the clause in the ordinance which related to Bermuda was an error
on the part of Lord Durham, but he declared his belief that the whole
of the remainder was perfectly legal, and warranted by the powers which
parliament had committed to the noble governor of Canada. On the other
hand Lord Ellenborough contended that all the penal provisions of the
ordinance were illegal, and that the whole transaction was alien from
the spirit of British jurisprudence. The Duke of Wellington said that
he did not approve of the constant attacks on Lord Durham; but he really
thought that steps should be taken to set the government of Canada right
on proceedings which appeared to be illegal. Lord Brougham followed up
the course he had taken on the following night by introducing a bill
"for declaring the true intent and meaning of an act passed in the
present session of parliament, intituled 'An act to make temporary
provisions for the government of Lower Canada,' and for indemnifying
those who have issued or acted under a certain ordinance made under
colour of the said act." This bill was read a first time in silence,
but on the second reading on the 9th of August, Lord Brougham, by way
of preface, propounded certain "canons of policy" by which the
administration of the government of Lower Canada, during the suspension
of the constitution ought, in his opinion, to have been directed. The
bill introduced by Lord Brougham was so loosely framed that it afforded
Lord Glenelg fair occasion for criticism. He availed himself of
this opportunity of encountering his adversary with some effect. In
conclusion, Lord Glenelg observed that the bill before the house was not
a mere declaratory act, but a new law restricting the powers which the
act of that session had already conferred upon the governor of Canada.
It would be inexpedient and extraordinary, if, having invested Lord
Durham with plenary authority, they were suddenly to abridge the powers
which he had been led to suppose he possessed. A warm and acrimonious
debate was maintained by the Earl of Ripon, the Duke of Wellington, and
other opposition peers on the one hand, and Lord Melbourne and the lord
chancellor on the other. The two ex-chancellors made themselves very
remarkable on this occasion, Lord Brougham manifesting the utmost
excitement, and the most bitter personal hostility to Lord Durham,
to whose instrumentality he attributed his being overlooked by Lord
Melbourne in his cabinet arrangements. Lord Lyndhurst did the excellent
qualities of Lord Durham justice, and displayed a calmness in debate
which contrasted strikingly with the irritability and personalities of
Lord Brougham. The debate brought forcibly to light the disposition of
Lord Durham to carry matters with a high hand in his new government,
and his deficiency in that wariness and prudence so essential to a chief
governor. After a few remarks from Lord Brougham, the bill was read
a second time by a majority of fifty-four against thirty-six. On the
following day Lord Melbourne informed the house that ministers had
resolved to advise the queen to disallow of the whole ordinance. It was
with the deepest regret and alarm that they had taken this course; nor
was it without the greatest apprehension of the consequences that they
had come to this determination. His lordship then intimated his approval
of the indemnity bill, and that he should in a future stage of the
proceedings move a clause explanatory of Sir William Follett's proviso.
Lord Brougham commended ministers for their "judicious, wise, politic,
and most virtuous resolution." The Duke of Wellington was by no means
inclined to sanction Lord Melbourne's proposed explanation of the
proviso: Sir John Colborne had acted under the law as it stood, and
must have found it sufficient for the purpose. The Marquis of Lansdowne
remarked, that if the noble lords opposite acquiesced in the mode in
which Sir John Colborne had exercised his authority; if they admitted
that he had not exceeded the law, Lord Melbourne's proposed clause would
be unnecessary. That gentleman had been permitted to pass an act
of attainder, which had lain unnoticed on the table for six weeks.
Ministers only claimed for Lord Durham the power which was conceded to
his predecessor: he desired to know whether Sir John Colborne had acted
in conformity with the law. Lord Brougham replied, that Lord Durham's
powers were coextensive with those of Sir John Colborne; but as to
whether or not that officer had exceeded the limits of his authority, he
begged to say that he did not feel himself at liberty to answer. It
is quite clear, indeed, that no noble lord could have answered this
question satisfactorily; for if Lord Durham had been guilty in passing
an act of attainder, the same guilt must have attached to Sir John
Colborne; and if the one had been pronounced innocent, the other must
have shared in his innocence. This question, which was one of the
greatest importance, however, was allowed to pass over; and in the
course of the evening Lord Melbourne moved the insertion of his
explanatory clause, which, after reciting the proviso, proceeded to
declare, that it should not extend to prevent the governor and council
from passing such laws as might be necessary for the safety of the
province, or from providing for the punishment or detention of persons
engaged in conspiracies against the government. By the results of this
clause, in fact, and the discussions which followed, Lord Brougham's
bill was stripped of its declaratory character, and reduced to a mere
act of indemnity to the parties concerned in the transportation and
detention of the Bermuda prisoners. In this mutilated condition Lord
Brougham moved the third reading of the bill, which he did with evident
reluctance, inasmuch as he rightly considered that its chief value lay
in its declaratory character. "As I have been accidentally mixed up with
this business," said his lordship, "I have no hesitation in moving the
third reading of the bill, as it now stands, although quite sensible
that I am making that motion on the part of her majesty's government."
On this occasion the lord-chief-justice Denman spoke on the question for
the first time. His objections to the ordinance were directed to a gross
violation of the constitution. As to the indemnity, he was entirely
opposed to it; the passing of such bills was one of the most
unjustifiable practices of parliament. Publie functionaries might
be justified by their good intentions in overstepping the law; but
parliament had no right to say to the parties who had suffered by such
excess of authority, "You can have no redress against those persons who
have wronged you, because it is our pleasure to indemnify them." "If
indeed," he continued, "parliament are of opinion that individuals,
actuated by a good and upright intention, and only zealous for
the public service, have broken the laws, let them indemnify those
individuals out of the public purse, against the consequences of the
legal proceedings that may be instituted; but let them not leave the
injured party without a remedy." The bill was finally read a third time,
and passed in the lords.

Lord Brougham's bill was introduced into the house of commons on the
13th of August, and read a first and second time without any discussion.
On the following day, however, Lord John Russell brought the subject
before the house. His lordship said it was his intention to submit to
the house of commons a proposal which he made with extreme reluctance;
namely, that they should assent to the bill as it came down from the
lords without any amendment. He presumed that no objection would be made
to the indemnity which it was the object of the bill to provide; and he
then explained in what sense he understood the act for governing Canada.
The discussion which ensued was similar in argument and spirit to the
debates in the house of lords. The house went into committee on the
bill. No amendments were introduced; and on the 15th of August Lord
John Russell moved the third reading, which, after a short debate, was
carried without a division.


QUEEN PROROGUES PARLIAMENT.

The queen prorogued parliament on the 16th of August. Being seated on
the throne her majesty was addressed by the speaker of the house of
commons on the subject of the suspension of the constitution of Lower
Canada, and the Irish poor-law and tithe bills. The queen then gave the
royal assent to a series of bills, after which she proceeded to read the
speech. In the speech her majesty lamented that war still continued in
Spain; adverted to the affairs of Canada; noticed the progress which
had been made towards the entire abolition of negro-apprenticeship; made
some approving observations on the attention which had been bestowed
upon the amendment of the domestic institutions of the country; thanked
the commons for providing for the expenses of her household, &c.; and
expressed her satisfaction in having given her assent to a bill for the
relief of the destitute poor in Ireland. Her majesty concluded thus: "My
lords and gentlemen,--The many useful measures which you have been able
to consider, while the settlement of the civil list and the state of
Canada demanded so much of your attention, are a satisfactory proof
of your zeal for the public good. You are so well acquainted with the
duties which now devolve upon you in your respective counties, that it
is unnecessary to remind you of them, In the discharge of them you may
securely rely upon my firm support; and it only remains to express an
humble hope that Divine Providence may watch over us all, and prosper
our united efforts for the welfare of our country."


DISAFFECTION AMONG THE WORKING CLASSES.

During the autumn of this year a turbulent spirit displayed itself among
the working classes in the manufacturing districts. Meetings were held
in various quarters, and demagogues addressed the assembled multitudes
in the most inflammatory language. The two-fold cause of this
disaffection was the poor-laws and the price of bread; and as a remedy
for these evils the people were taught to ask for universal suffrage.
A favourite practice with the parties to these transactions was to
assemble by torch-light in the open air--a practice which gave a mystery
to the meetings well calculated to strike the imagination of the vulgar,
and which gave those whose employment did not admit of their being
present in the daytime, an opportunity of attending them. The speeches
delivered at these meetings have been well characterized as "furious
nonsense;" but at the same time they were calculated to work mischief
in the community. Happily, however, the Whigs were in office, and for
their own interest's sake they restrained these ebullitions. Had there
been a Conservative government, possibly the danger might have been
greater.


PROPOSED REDUCTION OF THE RATES OF POSTAGE.

At this time the question of an alteration in the rates of postage was
beginning to occupy attention. A proposal was submitted to the country
by Mr. Rowland Hill, for substituting a uniform rate of one penny upon
every half-ounce, without any reference to distance. This scheme was
loudly applauded by all classes of society; and the subject was referred
to a committee of the house of commons. The report of this committee
was, that the high rates of postage then in existence were extremely
injurious to the community, interfering with moral and social
improvement; restricting commercial enterprise; impairing general
national prosperity; restraining the progress of art and science;
circumscribing the operations of religious societies, and acting as a
grievous tax upon the poor. The report further stated that the illicit
conveyance of letters prevailed to a great extent, and was on the
increase; that the law was impotent to arrest the practice; and that the
only mode of effectually suppressing it would be to reduce the charges
to the standard of the contraband carrier. The report recommended that,
prior to the establishment of an uniform rate of one penny, a similar
rate of twopence per half-ounce on inland general-post letters should be
adopted at the rate of one penny with every additional half-ounce, with
certain exceptions. It further suggested that as soon as the revenue
would bear a large temporary reduction, it would be expedient to subject
all inland letters to a penny postage the half-ounce, increasing at the
rate of one penny with every additional half-ounce. It advised also
that payment of postage should be required in advance; and for the
facilitation of this plan, recommended the adoption of stamped covers,
which should have the effect of franking the letters enclosed. The
use of these stamps was to be made compulsory as soon as justified by
experience. At this time, the report added, it was calculated the number
of letters, &c, passing through the post-offices of the United Kingdom
were from 75,000,000 to 80,000,000 annually; of which about 5,700,000
were general-post letters. The number of franks was about 7,000,000; and
of newspapers, 44,000,000.


THE STATE OF IRELAND.

As usual, Mr. O'Connell devoted his time during the parliamentary recess
to "agitation." A series of manifestoes issued from his retreat at
Derrynane Abbey, all well calculated to stir up the evil passions
of human nature. Nor were these missiles the only instruments of his
agitation. On the very day of his arrival in Dublin, after parliament
was prorogued, he convened a meeting of his constituents for the morrow,
in order to take into consideration "ulterior measures, to procure from
the British legislature 'full justice for Ireland,' or to provide for
the contingency of a perseverance in the refusal of that legislature to
right the people of Ireland." Accordingly, a large concourse of people
assembled at the Corn-exchange, and were addressed by the demagogue
in that braggart style which he well knew would win its way to their
feelings. In his speech Mr. O'Connell intimated his intention of forming
a new association, the exertions of which were to be directed to obtain
for Ireland a greater share in the representation of the United Kingdom.
He developed his plan for accomplishing this design in a series of
letters to the people. In these letters he founded his allegation, that
Ireland had not her fair proportion of members of the house of commons,
on this data. By the last census it appeared that the population
of England and Wales was 13,899,675; of Scotland, 2,365,930; and of
Ireland, 7,943,940. Scotland, he said, had fifty-three representatives,
while Ireland had only one hundred and five; so that the Scotch had more
than half the number of representatives possessed by the Irish; whereas,
in order to be on an equality, the latter ought to have one hundred and
fifty-nine. In order to be on an equality with the English, he said,
they ought to have one hundred and sixty-six; but Mr. O'Connell said
that he would be satisfied with one hundred and fifty. In order to
obtain that number he proposed the organization of an association
sufficiently numerous to speak the sentiments of all Ireland. For this
purpose, he said, the "Precursor Society" had been established, and
was now in progress of enrolment. Mr. T. M. Ray was secretary to the
"Precursor Society," and to become a member it was necessary to pay
him one shilling at the enrolment. All the population might have the
privilege of enrolment--men, women, and children--for the more shillings
that were paid, the better for the pockets of the agitators. The
operations of the society was to be conducted by local boards,
corresponding with that over which Mr. Ray presided at the Corn-exchange
Rooms, Dublin. The duty of the "Precursor Society," in every parish,
was to procure petitions to parliament for "justice to Ireland;" for a
corporate reform; for an amendment of the law of election, and extension
of the suffrage, and an increase of representatives. The precursors
were also instructed to furnish accurate details of the state of the
franchise in every parish, and to keep up and extend the registry. This
was what Mr. O'Connell designated in one of his letters as "one great
experiment more to obtain justice;" and if this failed, then he would
have repeal.


THE AFFAIRS OF CANADA.

It has been seen in the parliamentary debates that the affairs of Canada
were in a very unsettled state; it is now necessary, however, to give
a brief account of the transactions which had taken place in that
province.

During several preceding years great dissensions had existed in Lower
Canada; and in the year 1837 these dissensions broke out into open
insurrection. The provincial parliament of that province assembled on
the 18th of August; but from its refractory conduct Lord Gosford was
compelled to prorogue it. He had no other alternative but to dismiss
the members, since they plainly declared that they suspended all
deliberation until the consummation of the reforms announced by and
in the name of the imperial authorities. On the prorogation of the
provincial parliament everything denoted imminent troubles. The
authorities were on the alert; and plans were formed for the effective
disposition of the small force that the local government possessed. Nor
were the loyalists inactive: a great meeting was held at Montreal, at
which resolutions were adopted in support of the British government.
These resolutions were followed up by the formation of regiments of
volunteers, thus showing a steady determination to carry them out to the
utmost. But, notwithstanding all this, the French party, or patriots,
convened a great meeting in the county of Richelieu, which they termed
"the meeting of the five counties," at which place delegates were
collected from the various parishes. The people met in a large meadow;
and in this meadow was erected a column, surmounted with a cap of
liberty, and bearing this inscription:--"To Papineau, by his grateful
brother patriots." Papineau was there; and after haranguing the
multitude with other leaders of the faction, and a string of
insurrectionary resolutions having been passed, the transatlantic
demagogue was conducted to the foot of the column, where an address was
delivered to him by one of his brother agitators. The proceedings of the
day terminated with a procession of young men, who, marching up to
the pillar, sung a patriotic hymn, and, with their hands placed on the
column, devoted themselves to their country. Mischief was now fairly
afloat. Soon after this a collision took place in the streets of
Montreal between the "loyalists and patriots," in which the latter were
defeated. The troops in Lower Canada were reinforced by two regiments
sent from Halifax; and Sir Francis Head placed the whole of the troops
stationed in Upper Canada at the disposal of the Lower, although there
were symptoms of disaffection within his jurisdiction. Still rebellion
continued. Every day displayed a new manifestation of an intended
rising: on the one side men assembled in arms, using threatening
language; and on the other the magistrates issued proclamations and
warrants, which the military were called on to enforce. On one occasion
a party of volunteer cavalry, who composed the escort of some prisoners,
was waylaid by an overpowering assemblage of insurgents, who, receiving
them with a galling fire, put them to the rout, and rescued the
prisoners. Before the close of the last year many of the leaders of the
faction were in prison, and more of them, among whom was M. Papineau,
had withdrawn to a place of safety.

The insurrection in Lower Canada rendered it necessary for the British
government to appoint a species of dictatorial governor, one who should
possess the power of making temporary provision for the government of
Canada. It has been already seen that Lord Durham was selected for this
important mission, and that he had arrived in the province. Before,
however, relating the particulars of his government, it is necessary to
take a retrospective view of events in Upper Canada.

Sir Francis Head at this time was governor of the upper province of
Canada; and at the period when he arrived there a Mr. Lyon Mackenzie,
who had originally emigrated from Scotland, was a principal leader of
the "Reform," or malcontent party in the province. In the year 1832 Mr.
Mackenzie made his appearance in London, as the agent of his party;
and in that capacity he was received with every mark of respect. Mr.
Mackenzie, in fact, was so successful in his mission as to procure
the removal of the attorney and solicitor-generals from their posts, a
penalty which they paid for the part they had taken in joining in a
vote which had expelled their antagonist from the house of assembly. He
returned in triumph to Upper Canada; and, supported by the approval
of the English cabinet, succeeded in regaining a seat in the house
of assembly. At the ensuing election "the reformers" obtained a
large majority in that assembly; and the result was that a "grievance
committee" was appointed, which committee made a report that was
subsequently transmitted to England. It was to redress the grievances
therein stated that Sir Francis Head was despatched to Canada; and he
was hailed on his arrival there as a "tried reformer." His appearance
under such circumstances naturally excited the distrust of the
loyalists, who gave indications of their dissatisfaction. Sir Francis
Head, however, was nothing daunted at this demonstration; he had the
grievances of Upper Canada to redress, and he had the remedies; and
whether the Tories liked the medicine or not, he did not care a straw.
At the same time he soon gave an intimation to the Republican leaders
that he was not the kind of man they believed him to be. Beyond the
grievances they had enumerated in the report, they had a variety of
others hitherto unmentioned; and when this was intimated to him, he gave
a distinct intimation that he should not take these into consideration.
His graphic account of his interview will well illustrate the manner
in which he treated the Republicans. He says,--"When Mr. Mackenzie,
bringing with him a letter of introduction from Mr. Hume, called upon
me, I thought that of course he would be too happy to discuss with
me the contents of the report; but his mind seemed to nauseate
its subjects. Afraid to look me in the face, he sat with his feet
not-reaching the ground, and with his countenance averted from me at
an angle of about seventy degrees, while, with the eccentricity, the
volubility, and, indeed, the appearance of a madman, the tiny creature
raved in all directions about grievances here, and grievances there,
which the committee, he said, had not ventured, to enumerate. 'Sir,'
I exclaimed, 'let us cure what we have got here first!' pointing to the
report before me. But no; nothing that I could say would induce this
pedlar to face his own report; and I soon found that it had the same
effect upon all the members, and that, like the repelling end of a
magnet, I had only to present it to the Radicals to drive them from the
very object which his majesty's government expected would have
possessed attractions." On his arrival Sir Francis Head promulgated his
instructions; a step which had the effect of precipitating matters in
Lower Canada. He then proceeded to act, by adding three Reformers to
his executive council, making the total number six. By this means the
executive council was brought into unison with the majority of the house
of assembly. Thus favoured, in furtherance of the views of that body as
then constituted, the board requested the governor to bestow upon it a
considerable enlargement of its powers. But this sealed the fate of the
executive council. Instead of granting their request, Sir Francis, who
had already become hostile to the Reformers, dismissed the whole of
the members of which the council was composed. This brought him into
collision with the house of assembly; the supplies were stopped, and
violent and condemnatory addresses drawn up. Sir Francis, however,
fought them with their own weapons; when they stopped the supplies, he
refused to assent to bills providing for their own contingencies; and
in April, 1836, first prorogued, and then dissolved his exasperated
parliament. The next assembly presented a majority of opposite politics
to the last, and Sir Francis had everything his own way: he "rode on a
full tide of popularity." Still he was beset with difficulties on every
hand; and his mode of governing was of so novel and experimental a
nature, that it was evident he must sooner or later become offensive to
his superiors at home. Before the close of the year, indeed, he found
himself in collision with Lord Glenelg. During that period and in the
following year he addressed several memorandums to the colonial office,
in which he gave a description of the political state of Canada, and
offered his advice as to what measures were necessary for its good
government. It must be confessed that his views were generally of the
most eccentric character; and hence they were either unnoticed by the
government at home, or he was given to understand that they were not
thought worthy to be included among those submitted to the imperial
government. The points at issue between Sir Francis and his superiors
progressively accumulated, until at length the lieutenant-governor
broke out into insubordination, and thereby made his recall a matter
of necessity. But before his recall, and while the correspondence was
passing between Sir Francis and Lord Glenelg, an insurrection broke out,
which was headed by Mr. Mackenzie: Toronto was attacked by him, bearing
on his colours the name of "Bidwell," the judge-elect for the court
of Queen's Bench. This attack failed, and it became incumbent on Sir
Francis Head's successor, Major-general Sir George Arthur, to institute
proceedings against some of those engaged in the outbreak, who had been
taken prisoners. Among these were Samuel Lount, a native of the United
States, and Peter Mathews, an Upper Canadian, both of them men of
considerable property. Mathews had headed a party, and attacked the
city, when Sir Francis Head was shut up in the Town-hall; on which
occasion a bridge and several houses were set on fire. Being brought to
trial they pleaded guilty, and were sentenced to death--a sentence that
was executed on them. Upon being informed of this event, Lord Glenelg
wrote to express his regret that these severities should have been
deemed requisite, and expressed a hope that no similar necessity might
recur. No more of the offenders suffered capital punishment; but great
embarrassment was occasioned by the number of prisoners, it being alike
inexpedient to pardon and inconvenient to punish. Sir Francis Head had
instituted a board of commissioners, with the vice-chancellor of the
province at their head, for the purpose of investigating the cases,
and classifying the offenders according to their guilt. A considerable
number were finally discharged on bail; others were bound over to
keep the peace; some were set at liberty; and of the remainder, a
few, principally Americans, were banished from the province; while the
residue, for the most part men of property and influence, were sentenced
to transportation to the penal colonies. But while the government
was occupied in the disposal of these prisoners, the marauders on the
American side of the border were making preparations for a renewal
of hostilities; and on the 30th of May, 1838, a band of these outlaws
boarded the Sir Robert Peel British steamer at Well's Island, situated
in the river St. Lawrence, and belonging to the United States. The
passengers were robbed of everything, and the vessel was set on fire and
then abandoned. Lord Durham, who had just arrived, offered £1,000 reward
for the discovery and conviction of the offenders; but the marauders
set the authorities, British as well as American, at defiance. Johnson,
their commander, celebrated for his address and courage, became the
terror of the coast, and executed his schemes of plunder with success
and impunity. During the summer and autumn the preparations for invasion
continued to be conducted on the American border without any attempt at
concealment, and the alarm of the Canadians was naturally proportionate
to the danger. Sir George Arthur devoted himself with the greatest
assiduity to the defence of the province upon an extensive scale;
but the known lenity of Lord Durham had excited a strong feeling of
dissatisfaction in the upper province, and had created a feeling of
lukewarmness, against which it was difficult to work. On the other hand,
Lord Durham thought that the local government had erred on the opposite
side of severity. On this subject he wrote to the government at
home:--"It cannot be doubted that events of the past year have greatly
increased the difficulty of settling the disorders of Upper Canada. A
degree of discontent, approaching, if not amounting to disaffection, has
gained considerable ground. The causes of dissatisfaction continue to
act on the minds of the reformers; and their hope of redress, under the
present order of things, has been seriously diminished. The exasperation
caused by the conflict itself, the suspicions and terrors of that trying
period, and the use made by the triumphant party of the power thrown
into their hands, have heightened the passions which existed before.
It certainly appeared too much as if the rebellion had been purposely
invited by the government, and the unfortunate men who took part in it,
deliberately drawn into a trap by those who subsequently inflicted so
severe a punishment on them for their error."

It seemed, too, as if the dominant party made use of the occasion
afforded by the real guilt of a few desperate and imprudent men,
in order to persecute or disable the whole body of their political
opponents. A great number of perfectly innocent individuals were thrown
into prison, and suffered in person, property, and character. The
whole body of reformers were subjected to suspicion, and to harassing
proceedings, instituted by magistrates whose political leanings were
notoriously adverse to them. Severe laws were passed, under colour of
which individuals very generally esteemed were punished without any form
of trial--I make no mention of the reasons which, in the opinion of the
local government, rendered those different steps advisable, because my
object is not to discuss the propriety of its conduct, but to point
out the effects which it necessarily had in augmenting irritation.
The revolt in Lower Canada has been noticed at the commencement of this
article. After this event Lord Gosford was recalled, and during the
interval between his departure, and the arrival of Lord Durham, the
functions of government in that province devolved on Sir John Col-borne.
The first care of Sir John, after the termination of the revolt,
concerned the disposal of the prisoners, of whom a great number remained
in custody. In the whole, about three hundred and twenty-six were
from time to time liberated, leaving about one hundred and sixty in
confinement, among whom seventy-two stood charged with being among the
principal promoters of the insurrection. It was not expected that any of
these would be convicted if tried by ordinary juries; but Lord Glenelg
being informed of this, declined to sanction a resort to any other
species of court, without previously submitting as a practical test
the anticipations as to the issues of the ordinary tribunals. Sir
John Colborne was instructed to take steps for reducing the number of
prisoners still remaining, by allowing some of them after arraignment to
plead guilty, on the assurance that the judgment recorded against them
should not be executed, if they would consent to leave the province.
From the remaining number he was directed to select four or five cases,
and bring them before the ordinary courts of the province, the juries
being convened according to the existing practice; but in case this line
of proceeding should not appear expedient, it was suggested that a
law should be passed, suspending the _habeas corpus_ act, and that
the prisoners should be detained until Lord Durham's arrival. Sir
John Colborne adopted this latter course, being little disposed to try
state-prisoners under what he considered a certainty of their acquittal.
In the meantime, however, the news arrived of the new act of parliament,
which provisionally invested him with the powers which were eventually
to devolve on Lord Durham. In pursuance of his fresh instructions he
proceeded to nominate provisionally a special council, consisting
of twenty-one members, of whom eleven were French Canadians, and two
natives of the province. After preparing a series of "rules and orders"
for the better conduct of their deliberations, this council proceeded to
pass ordinances for such domestic objects as would have come before the
local parliaments in the ordinary course, and to take necessary measures
to meet the peculiar exigencies of the time. Among the latter class may
be mentioned enactments suspending the _habeas corpus_, and imposing
certain restrictions on the publishers of newspapers. An ordinance
was also passed to continue the local act for the transportation of
offenders from the province to England, and from thence to New South
Wales and Van Diemen's Land; an act which was on the point of expiring.
By a second ordinance it was provided that, upon the petition of any
person charged with high treason committed in the province, it should
be lawful for the person administering the government, before the
arraignment of the offender, to grant a pardon upon such terms as should
seem proper, which pardon should have the same effect as an attainder,
so far as regarded the forfeiture of the real and personal estate of
the person therein named; and further, that in case any person should be
pardoned under that ordinance, upon condition of being transported,
or of voluntary banishment, either for life or for a shorter time,
and should afterwards return without lawful excuse, contrary to the
condition of his pardon, he should be deemed guilty of felony, and
forfeit his life. By a third ordinance it was enacted that if a person
against whom an indictment for treason was found by a grand-jury in
the province would not appear, he might be summoned by proclamation to
surrender himself by a given day, such day not to be less than three
months from the date of the proclamation; and in the event of his
failing to do so, should stand and be adjudged attainted of the crime
expressed in the indictment, and suffer and forfeit accordingly, and
judgment be recorded to that effect. After issuing these ordinances,
with others of minor importance, and after repealing martial-law in the
district of Montreal, on the 5th of May the council was prorogued.
On the 29th of the same month Lord Durham arrived at Quebec, and
immediately proceeded to the council-chamber at the castle, and took
possession of the government with the accustomed formalities. His first
act was to issue a proclamation, assuring the people that he appeared
among them as a friend and arbitrator, ready at all times to listen to
them without respect to party, race, or politics. On the 31st of May he
addressed a circular to the respective members of the executive council,
dispensing with their services, having previously formed another,
composed of the secretaries to the general government; namely, C.
Buller, Esq., M.P., chief secretary; T. E. M. Turton, Esq., secretary;
Colonel G. Couper, military secretary; the provincial secretary; and the
commissary-general. Among the earliest measures of Lord Durham was the
mission of Colonel Grey to Washington, with instructions to expostulate
with the American government on the state of things existing on its own
borders. Colonel Grey obtained the fullest assurances of the president
that the American government desired to preserve the good understanding
existing with England, and ample promises of co-operation in any
measures which Lord Durham might think necessary to adopt for restoring
the peace of the frontier. A more difficult affair for Lord Durham to
settle was the disposal of the state prisoners. His lordship himself
remarked that it was "by far the most delicate and dangerous" of all the
matters requiring settlement. The manner in which his lordship settled
this question has already been seen in the record of the recent debates
in parliament. Having appointed a special council, consisting of
five members only, he, with the sanction of this council, issued an
ordinance, which, after reciting that Wolf Nelson, and seven others
therein named, had acknowledged their participation in high-treason, and
submitted themselves to her majesty's pleasure, and that Papineau with
fifteen others had absconded, enacted that it should be lawful for her
majesty to transport Nelson and his seven associates to Bermuda, during
pleasure, there to be subjected to such restraints as should be deemed
fit; and further, that if any person of the above classes should be
found at large, or within the province without permission, they should
be deemed guilty of high-treason, and on conviction of coming within the
province, suffer death. The ordinance further empowered the governor
for the time being to grant, whenever he should think fit, permission to
all, or any, of the above-named individuals to return to the province.
By a special clause two other classes of persons implicated in the
murder of Lieutenant Weir and one Joseph Chartrand, were excluded from
the operation of the ordinance, and from the benefit of any amnesty
which might be proclaimed. The ordinance was accompanied by a
proclamation of amnesty, which declared that, with the exception of
the persons named therein, all persons then in custody on a charge of
high-treason, or who had withdrawn themselves from justice beyond the
limits of the province, should, on giving proper security, be at liberty
to return to their own homes. What views were taken in the imperial
parliament has been seen. During the debates there, Lord Durham applied
himself to the consideration of questions connected with the management
of the crown-lands within his dominion. He formed a design for making
these lands more subservient to the purpose of emigration than they
had hitherto been. A commission of inquiry into the disposal of the
crown-lands to that end was issued by him, and he directed similar
investigations to be instituted in the other colonies subject to his
control. Subsequently his lordship commenced a progress through the two
provinces; and, according to his despatches, he was warmly greeted on
every hand. He writes:--"Everywhere, in the most insignificant village,
as in the most populous town, I have been received with the utmost
enthusiasm: in fact, in no part of England have I ever been more warmly
greeted, or received more unequivocal marks of respect from all ranks
and classes. I announce this fact with much satisfaction, as it is
an unerring mark of the feelings with which the measures which I have
adopted for the public good have been regarded by the great majority of
the inhabitants of the two provinces." It is quite clear, however, that
Lord Durham had not conciliated the great body of the people. During the
month of September, those who were charged with the crime of murdering
the French Canadian, Chartrand, were tried, and although they were
arraigned before a jury consisting exclusively of French Canadians, and
were moreover notoriously guilty, they were acquitted. On this subject,
in one of his reports, Lord Durham says:--"A perusal of the notes
of the chief-justice in this case, will satisfy every candid and
well-ordered mind, that a base and cruel assassination, committed
without a single circumstance of provocation or palliation, was brought
home by evidence, which no man ever pretended to doubt, against the
prisoners, whom the jury nevertheless acquitted. The duty of giving this
dishonest verdict had been most assiduously inculcated by the French
press before the trial came on; the jurors are said to have been kept
for some time in the hands of zealous partizans, whose business it was
not only to influence their inclination, but to stimulate their courage;
the array of the leaders of the party who were present at the trial, was
supposed to be collected for the same purpose; and it is notorious that
the acquittal was celebrated at public entertainments, to which the
jurors were invited, in order that they might be thanked for their
verdict." This intelligence seems to have had the effect of opening
the eyes of Lord Glenelg and his colleagues, as to the impolicy of the
restrictions which had been imposed upon the colonial authorities with
respect to the trial of political offenders. In his reply, Lord Glenelg
stated that it was the desire of her majesty's government that an
ordinance should be passed by the special council of Lower Canada,
constituting a tribunal for the trial of treason and murder; leaving it
to Lord Durham's own discretion how such a tribunal should be formed. It
does not appear, however, that Lord Durham adopted any plan for securing
the conviction of such offenders as it might be deemed expedient to
bring to trial. He scarcely, indeed, had an opportunity of making
any alteration in the criminal law. Soon after Lord Glenelg had
given directions on that point, he was compelled to communicate the
determination of ministers to annul his celebrated ordinance. After
informing him that so much of that edict as related to the Bermudas was
generally admitted to be invalid, and that in all other respects
the law-officers of the crown thought its provisions were within
the competency of the governor and special council; he said that, in
consequence of the discussions in parliament, and the unpopularity
of the penal parts of the ordinance, government, though reluctantly,
advised her majesty to disallow the ordinance. Lord Glenelg then
proceeded to direct Lord Durham, with à view of preventing the return of
the prisoners from Bermuda, to pass an ordinance subjecting them to such
penalty, short of death, as might be thought expedient, in the event of
their being convicted of returning to the province without permission.
With regard to those who had previously fled from justice, it was
suggested it might be sufficient by proclamation to make it known that,
should they re-enter the province, they would be forthwith arrested, and
dealt with according to law, on the charge of treason. The expediency
of suspending the _habeas corpus_ act was pointed out; and the despatch
concluded with an assurance of the earnest desire of ministers to afford
Lord Durham the utmost support in the arduous discharge of his duties.
Before these instructions were received, however, Lord Durham had
despatched a letter notifying his resolution to resign his office.
In this letter he dwelt on the incessant persecutions to which he was
exposed in the house of lords; the backwardness of ministers in his
defence; and the injurious effects of these circumstances upon the
moral authority of his government. "Upon two things," said he, "could I
chiefly rely for ultimate success: first, the great extent of the legal
powers conferred upon me; secondly, the impression which prevailed
throughout the colonies, that I might reckon with perfect confidence on
the undeviating support and approval of the government." Deprived of
these by the proceedings in question, he proceeded to say, the prestige
of his situation was gone for ever, and he had resolved to quit his
untenable post, Soon after this, Lord Durham forwarded to Lord Glenelg a
statement of the grounds upon which he was prepared to maintain that no
part of the ordinance was illegal, however imperative it might, and must
of necessity be without assistance and co-operation at home. In another
paper, of the same date, he entered at great length into an examination
of the conduct of ministers in the late proceedings, arraigning them
with great severity for deserting him in the hour of need. He asked,
"in what their opposition to the second reading of Lord Brougham's bill
consisted? In a concession far more calculated to weaken my hands than
would have been any vote of the house of lords, in which it is notorious
that her majesty's government have never commanded a majority." His
lordship added, "A vote of the house of lords adverse to her majesty's
government, or merely condemnatory of any proceedings of mine, would
have been considered almost as a matter of course in the present
state of parties; and would, if it had been decidedly opposed by the
ministers, have left my authority untouched, because it would have been
attributed to the mere party motives of a powerful opposition." After
remonstrating against the conduct of ministers, Lord Durham proceeded
to vindicate his policy. As regarded the particular defect of the
ordinance, his lordship contended that he had power to banish people
from the province, to keep them in custody during the transit, and
to land them at Bermuda or elsewhere. At the same time his lordship
admitted that his jurisdiction did not extend further: once landed in
Bermuda, the prisoners were subject only to the laws of the island.
Lord Durham, after justifying his policy, made some remarks on the
impossibility of governing the country with any effect; and then
proceeded to consider Lord Glenelg's suggestions of the course which it
was advisable to adopt in the present emergency. His lordship treated
the suggestion of another ordinance, banishing from the province the
eight persons who had been sent to Bermuda, as futile; and stated that
he had strong objections to the suspension of the _habeas corpus_. He
remarked:--"Men's notions of right and freedom would be more shocked at
such an universal violation of every man's dearest rights, than by any
summary process adopted for the punishment of the undeniable guilt of
a few. In the event of a general outbreak, it might be proper that the
government should be armed with the power of arresting objects of its
suspicion without trial. But there existed no such necessity at present;
and he did not think it justifiable to take away the franchise of a
whole people, in order to punish a few known and dangerous individuals,
or to guard against the misconduct of twenty-three men, by enveloping
them in a general forfeiture of personal liberty." In conclusion Lord
Durham intimated his intention of remaining a few weeks longer, only in
order to complete certain measures then in progress. Upon the receipt
of Lord Durham's first announcement of his intention to throw up his
office, Lord Glenelg endeavoured to soothe his mind, by acknowledging
that he had much reason to complain; and entreated him, upon public
grounds, to reconsider his decision. His lordship, however, remained
firm: he retained office only until arrangements had been made for
some one to assume the reins of government. Before he left Canada he
proclaimed the act of indemnity, and notified her majesty's disallowance
of the ordinance. He accompanied the promulgation of these acts with a
manifesto, in which he forgot alike what was due to the country and to
himself. The tendency of this manifesto will be seen by Lord Glenelg's
remarks upon it. He observed:--"The proclamation of the 9th of October,
her majesty's confidential advisers regard not merely as a deviation
from the course which has hitherto been invariably pursued by the
governors of British possessions abroad, but as a dangerous departure
from the practice and principles of the constitution. They consider as
open to a most serious objection an appeal by such an officer to the
public at large, from measures adopted by the sovereign, with the advice
and consent of parliament. The terms in which that appeal has been made,
in this instance, appear to her majesty's ministers calculated to impair
the reverence due to the royal authority, to derogate from the character
of the imperial legislature, to excite amongst the disaffected hopes
of impunity, and to enhance the difficulties with which your lordship's
successor will have to contend. The ministers of the crown having humbly
submitted this opinion to the queen, it is my duty to inform you that
I have received her majesty's commands to signify to your lordship her
majesty's disapprobation of your proclamation of the 9th of October.
Under these circumstances, her majesty's government are prepared to
admit that your continuance in the government of British North America
could be attended with no beneficial result." Lord Durham's manifesto
was deservedly condemned by all parties, as unbecoming the office and
character of the queen's representative: it procured for him, in the
_Times_ newspaper, the unenviable title of "the lord-high seditioner."
In Canada, however, it increased the golden opinions entertained of
him greatly. Public meetings were convened, and addresses expressive of
sorrow at his resignation poured in upon him from all quarters. At
home, also, there were those who admired his character and applauded his
conduct. His lordship sailed from Quebec on the 1st of November, and
on the 26th he arrived in Plymouth harbour. At Plymouth, Devonport, and
Exeter he received complimentary addresses, and unfortunately he was
betrayed upon these occasions into renewed indiscretions, the only
excuse for which could be that he had received most serious provocation.

In his reply to the addresses at Devonport and Plymouth, Lord Durham
boasted that he had "effaced the remains of a disastrous rebellion,"
and "had conciliated the esteem of a great and powerful nation, in which
were to be found all the elements of danger or security to our North
American possessions." Before he reached Exeter, however, where another
address awaited him, he was compelled to say that he had foreseen
another event, the intelligence of which had just been conveyed from
Liverpool--the renewal of the rebellion in Canada.

On the departure of Lord Durham, the government again provisionally
devolved upon Sir John Colborne. It was expected before he set sail that
a renewal of the rebellion would take place during the winter. On the
20th of October, indeed, his lordship had informed Lord Glenelg that
the indications of mischief were so numerous and urgent that it was no
longer possible to conceal a consciousness of danger. The indications
of conspiracy had, in fact, become undeniable. Throughout the French
population there existed a formidable organization, bound together by
oaths and secret signs. Knowing this, the loyalists in both provinces
either took up their abode in the towns, or fled altogether from the
British dominion. What made their situation the more critical was the
reluctance of the militia and volunteers to take up arms. This was
especially the case in Upper Canada, and it seems to have chiefly
originated in their dissatisfaction with the lenity of the government.
No sooner had Lord Durham departed than the danger became imminent.
Arrests took place at Montreal on the following night: domiciliary
visits were general; guards and pickets were dispersed in all parts of
the city, and its approaches occupied. It was originally intended by the
insurgents that the rising should take place at Montreal, on Sunday,
the 3rd instant, when the troops were unarmed, and at church. The
precautions of Sir John Colborne, however, defeated this scheme, and
Beauharnois was selected for the theatre of war. The _habitans_ were
now, therefore, once more in arms against the British crown. A numerous
party attacked the house of Mr. Ellice, late private secretary to Lord
Durham, and that gentleman with three others were carried away by the
rebels. On the same day an interesting incident occurred at Caughnawaga,
an Indian village. While at church, the Indians were informed that
a large body of armed men were secreted in their neighbourhood; and
rushing from the sacred walls, they hurried home, seized what arms came
to hand, raised the war-whoop, fell upon the enemy, and captured seventy
prisoners, with scarcely a show of resistance. The Indians conveyed
their prisoners to Montreal, bound with their own sashes and
garters; and when Sir John Colborne thanked the chief of the party, he
characteristically offered to bring in the scalp of every _habitant_ in
the vicinity within twenty-four hours. Sir John Colborne, however, did
not think it prudent to give him such a commission, though use of these
warriors was made during the struggle. Every day the number of the
insurgents increased. Between the 3rd and 6th of November, four thousand
were concentrated at Napierville, in La Prairie, under the command
of Dr. Robert Nelson, Dr. Cote, and one Gagnor. Upon this point
Major-general Sir James Macdonnell was directed to march; but before he
could arrive the rebels had dispersed, and were beyond pursuit. In
their route they were twice attacked and defeated by a small party of
volunteers, losing in the whole sixty men killed, and having about an
equal number wounded. The loyalist forces now scoured the insurgent
districts, and it was found impossible to prevent many excesses from
taking place. The village of Beauharnois was partially destroyed by
fire, and the houses of disaffected persons in every part shared the
same fate. But while the war was thus easily suppressed in Lower Canada,
their American coadjutors were actively engaged on their side. On the
evening of the 12th they effected a landing at a place called Prescott,
in Upper Canada, to the number of five hundred men, carrying with them
several field-pieces. These were, however, defeated by the troops under
the command of Colonel Dundas, Major McBean, Colonel Young, and Captain
Sandom. Nearly two hundred of them were taken, and conveyed to Kingston,
to be tried by court-martial; many were slain, and the rest escaped
across the river. Another attack was made by the American marauders on
the 4th of December, near Sandwich, at the western extremity of Upper
Canada. A steam-boat and the barracks were set on fire, and Dr. Hume,
a military surgeon, having fallen into their hands, was barbarously
murdered. On discovering this outrage, the militia, under the command
of Colonel Price, assembled, and on their approach the enemy fled.
Twenty-six of their number were slain in their flight, and twenty-five
captured.

In the meantime Sir John Colborne and his special council were busy in
the exercise of their legislative functions. Ordinances were passed for
substituting martial law, for suspending the _habeas corpus_, for the
attainder of persons against whom the sentence of courts-martial
should be given, and for preventing, by highly penal provisions, the
administering of unlawful oaths. It had been suggested by Lord Glenelg
to Lord Durham, that a special court for the trial of "rebels and
murderers" should be instituted. Sir John Colborne, however, preferred
to resort to courts-martial for the disposal of prisoners recently
captured. Soon after the dispersion of the insurgents, therefore, a
general court-martial was convened, and twelve prisoners, all of French
extraction, were arraigned before it. Two of these were acquitted, and
the rest were sentenced to death; a sentence, however, which was
only executed upon two of the most notorious--Cardinal, a notary, and
Duguette, a tavern-keeper, who had commanded in both insurrections.
In Upper Canada, where Sir George Arthur provisionally governed, the
difficulties attendant upon the disposal of the prisoners were greater.
The Upper Canadians demanded severity, and would not hear of mercy being
extended to men whom they deemed robbers and murderers. A court-martial
was assembled at Kingston for the trial of some of the recently captured
prisoners; and several of them, as Van Schoultz, a Pole, who commanded
the brigands, and three of his associates in command, Abbey, George, and
Woodruff, were executed. Not long afterwards five more of the prisoners,
three of whom had been engaged in the affair near Sandwich, suffered
the same fate. At this time, indeed, according to Sir George Arthur's
report, the feelings of the loyal portion of the inhabitants of
the upper province, were in the highest degree exasperated. He
writes:--"Never was there a task more difficult than to decide what
course, under the existing circumstances of the country, should be
pursued, so as to combine the least possible violation of public feeling
with a sense of justice, preserving withal a due and necessary regard
to mercy in its administration; mercy not only as regards the prisoners,
whose fate was yet undecided, but which respectively has reference to
the lives that may hereafter be sacrificed by the adoption of a present
injudicious measure."

It may be mentioned that while these events were transpiring in Upper
and Lower Canada, the remainder of the British North American provinces
were in perfect harmony with the British government. In Newfoundland,
indeed, there were the elements of discord between the colonial
legislature and their rulers, superadded to which were religious
dissensions; but these circumstances gave no cause for alarm. The broils
prevailing there owed their existence to Roman Catholic agitation; but
the Protestant interests were too strong to be shaken by them, or the
government disturbed.


THE STATE OF THE CONTINENT.

During the whole of this year the war still continued in Spain. The
Carlists were less successful and less enterprising than in the two
preceding years; but their cause was not yet hopeless. A body of them
was defeated at Yebenes, in the province of Toledo, and at Val de Penas
in New Castile, by Major-general Flinta; but shortly after this latter
defeat they took possession of Almaden, with its famous quicksilver
mines, the only element of credit remaining with the queen's government.
Basilio Garcia, however, failed in his endeavours to destroy the works
of the mines; and having evacuated the town, retired into the mountains
of Toledo, whence he harassed the surrounding country, and levied heavy
contributions. While Basilio Garcia was carrying on war in Castile and
Grenada, another body of Carlists, under the command of Count Negri, was
making its way into the interior. He advanced as far as Segovia, but he
then turned to the northward; and after presenting himself to no purpose
before the walls of Valladolid, he hastened his retrograde march with
all possible diligence towards the mountains. In the meantime Basilio
Garcia had been again defeated at Bejar with great loss; and he hurried
with the remains of his column into the province of Soria, where he
effected a junction with Balmaseda. All this time Don Carlos was at
Estella; but on the 10th of May, the discontent of the Nayarese in his
service compelled him to withdraw to Tolosa. About this time Espartero,
who had been elevated to the rank of captain-general of Spain, commenced
active operations. He advanced to Pampeluna, and Don Carlos then removed
to Glorrio. A series of conflicts now took place; and the struggle
closed with the battle of Maella, in which Cabrera, who was the only
Carlist general who in this year increased his reputation, defeated
the Christino general, Pardinas, with great loss: out of 4,500 men only
1,500 men are said to have escaped: Pardinas himself was slain. But one
of the most important events that took place during this year in Spain
was an insurrection at Seville, headed by Cordova and Narvaez; this,
however, was quelled by the activity of Espartero.

The history of Portugal for the year is marked by no very striking
event. The efforts of the Cortes were chiefly directed to the averting
of the catastrophe of a national bankruptcy, which was effected by
the acceptation of a loan, conjointly tendered by the Mercantile
Association, and the Lisbon bank. Early in March a street riot took
place in the capital, and threw it into disorder for some few days; but
it did not produce any result beyond the bloodshed which it occasioned.
The Miguelite guerillas, however, ravaged Portugal, and especially
the southern provinces, more this year than they had hitherto done.
Remeihido, especially, who had been educated for the priesthood,
committed many daring acts; but in the course of the summer he was
attacked in his mountain-fastnesses by Colonel Fontoura, and after a
sharp conflict his band was routed, and himself captured: he was shot at
Faro.

In the month of March the king of Holland intimated to the conference
at London sitting on the Hollando-Belgic question, that "having been
constantly disappointed in his just expectations of being able to obtain
by negociation better terms for his beloved subjects, he had become
convinced that the only pledge which still remained for him to give of
his regard for their welfare, and the sole means to attain his object,
consisted in a full and entire assent on his part to the conditions of
separation which the courts of Austria, France, Great Britain, Prussia,
and Russia, had declared to be unalterable and irrevocable." His
majesty, therefore, declared his readiness to accept the twenty-four
articles which had been agreed upon in the year 1831. Belgium, however,
now refused to accede to the arrangement, by resolving not to cede
Luxembourg. But the conference insisted peremptorily on its cession;
and it was quite apparent that Belgium would be compelled to render
obedience to its decree.

It may be mentioned that an important treaty of amity, commerce, and
navigation, was this year concluded between Great Britain and Austria,
thus further cementing the ancient and natural alliance between two
countries, of whom it has been said, "that for one hundred and fifty
years they have always had the same enemies, though those enemies have
not been the same."


CHAPTER L.

{VICTORIA. 1839--1840}

     State of Parties..... Meeting of Parliament..... The Corn-
     law Question..... The Affairs of Ireland discussed in
     Parliament..... Proceedings in Parliament respecting
     Jamaica..... Resignation of Ministers, and Failure of Sir
     Robert Peel to form a new Administration, &c...... National
     Education..... The Affairs of Canada..... The second Jamaica
     Bill, &c...... Bill for the Suppression of the Portuguese
     Slave trade, &c...... Motion for the Ballot..... Act for the
     better ordering of Prisons..... Motion for a Committee of
     the whole House to consider the National Petition.....
     Birmingham Riots, &c...... The Budget; proposed Reduction of
     Postage Duties, &c...... Prorogation of Parliament.....
     Affairs in the East Indies..... State of the Continent.


STATE OF PARTIES.

{A.D. 1839}

It has been noticed in a previous page that the relative strength of the
two great parties in the country continued much the same as they were
at the commencement of the year 1837. The Whigs, indeed, gained by the
change which had taken place in the monarchy, inasmuch as by the death
of the late king they were delivered from an avowed adversary, and by
the accession of Queen Victoria they gained a known friend to their
cause. The ministers, indeed, found considerable advantage in her
support. Yet in the house of commons the number of' their supporters had
upon the whole rather decreased since their accession to the government;
and in the country generally their popularity may be said to have
continued on the decline. One of the principal grounds in this change is
to be found in the connection of government with the agitator O'Connell.
Although that gentleman had rendered many services to the cause of
reform, yet his delinquencies were so many, that he never enjoyed the
sympathy of any considerable mass of the English people. Moreover,
popery, of which he was one of the leaders, is still unpopular in
this country, and the Conservatives sedulously took advantage of the
connection of the ministers with him to raise apprehensions of Romanist
intrigue and encroachment. This was, therefore, a great source of
embarrassment to the ministry; and yet they could not offend this man
of the people of Ireland by standing aloof from him. Another cause
of embarrassment was the movement of the people calling themselves
Chartists.


MEETING OF PARLIAMENT.

Parliament was opened by the queen in person on the 6th of February.
The speech referred to the discontents in England and Ireland and the
insurrection in Canada, and recommended improvements in the law, and
reforms as the remedy for this state of things, while it expressed a
determination to maintain the authority of the crown.

The addresses in the lords and commons were, as usual, the occasion of
long party debates, in which all the irritating topics of the day were
made the most of by the opposition. The affairs of Ireland and the
East occupied the greatest prominence; next to these, Chartism and
the general distress; while Canada and the Iberian peninsula afforded
fertile subjects for the opposition speakers, with which to annoy the
government. Free-trade, and the duties on the importation of corn,
became a subject of important debate at this juncture. In the commons
Sir Robert Peel threw himself, acrimoniously, and with all his energy,
into this controversy, and used all the exploded arguments of the
protectionists with the air of one who for the first time urged them
upon the house. Mr. Villiers severely chastised the protectionist
champion, showing how unscrupulously he played the part of a plagiarist
even in the sophisms he employed. Mr. Duncombe had the bad taste to move
an amendment, which he knew there was no hope of carrying, or of finding
a tolerable minority to support, thus impeding the public business
without any counterpoising benefit.

When the address was brought up, Mr. O'Connell animadverted in strong
language upon the transfer of Limbourg and Luxembourg to Holland: it was
one of the greatest cruelties ever committed that the five powers should
impose such terms on Belgium. In reply, Lord Palmerston observed that by
the treaty of Vienna Limbourg was annexed to the Seven United Provinces.
Luxembourg, by the same treaty, was constituted a separate sovereignty,
as a grand duchy, to be held by the same individual who should be king
of the Netherlands; but by a separate title, and transmissible in a
separate line of succession. The kingdom of the Netherlands went to the
heirs general of the king, while Luxembourg would descend to the heirs
male only: the king of the Netherlands in that character was not a
member of the Germanic confederation, but he was a member as grand duke
of Luxembourg; and when the grand duchy was formed, it became subject to
the federal constitution, and to the regulations which bound the
members of the confederacy. When the revolution broke out it extended to
Luxembourg, and the king of the Netherlands applied for aid to the
five powers. It was ultimately found that the only way of arranging the
difficulties between Holland and Belgium was a separation; but the
five powers did not feel themselves competent, nor were they competent
according to the treaties which governed the relations of the states
of Europe, to deal with the question as regarded Luxembourg. In the
progress of the negociation the Belgian government expressed a strong
desire that a portion of Luxembourg and Limbourg should form a part
of Belgium; and the five powers had no objection to this, provided
the consent of the Germanic confederation, which had full liberty to
re-establish the grand duke in his rights, could be obtained. The diet
gave permission, on condition that some equivalent portion of territory
should be ceded by Belgium in return for what was detached from the
duchy of Luxembourg. To these terms the Belgian government consented,
and an arrangement was made, by which it was agreed that for the
incorporation of a part of Luxembourg in the kingdom of Belgium an
equivalent should be provided by the latter state. This arrangement
formed part of the twenty-four articles; and it was perfectly true that
these articles, as Mr. O'Connell had said, were accepted by Belgium, and
not by Holland. When, however, these articles were incorporated into
a regular treaty between Belgium and the five powers, then that treaty
became a binding instrument on the contracting party: the five powers
were entitled to keep Belgium to the terms of the treaty, and Belgium
in turn was entitled to claim their observance of it. The Belgian
government had, indeed, on various occasions appealed to the treaty
as the charter of its rights; and it was preposterous that, after so
regarding it for eight years, they should finally declare to all Europe,
because it suited their convenience, that the fundamental articles of
the treaty were of no obligation to them. His lordship concluded by
saying that, so far from its being an injustice in the five powers to
refuse to add Luxembourg to Belgium, it would have been an act of the
grossest oppression if they had consented to make a violent seizure of
that territory for the purpose of transferring it: all that was done was
to leave the matter as it was settled at the congress of Vienna.


THE CORN-LAW QUESTION.

At this time a great many petitions had been presented to both houses of
parliament on the subject of the corn-laws. On the 18th of February Lord
Brougham moved that these petitions should "be referred to a committee
of the whole house, and that evidence be heard at the bar." The Dukes of
Buckingham and Richmond and Earl Stanhope opposed the motion; and Lord
Melbourne thought that the plan proposed would have no other result
than the obstruction of the business of the house, and to perplex and
embarrass the question itself. The Duke of Wellington said that the
proposed mode of inquiry was without a precedent, and contended that
without protection agriculture could not prosper. The reduction of the
duty even a trifle too much might involve the country in the utmost
difficulty, by rendering the cultivation of the soil impossible, and
thereby ruining a large class of industrious and at present happy
people. The motion was negatived without a division.

The subject of the corn-laws was debated in the house of commons on the
following day. Mr. Villiers moved, "that certain persons be heard at the
bar of the house by their agents, witnesses, or counsel, in support
of the allegations of the petition presented to the house on the 15th
instant, complaining of the operation of the corn-laws." In support of
this motion, Mr. Villiers considered at great length the effect of the
corn-laws upon the manufactures and commerce of the country. Sir Francis
Burdett objected to the course proposed; but, at the same time, he
stated that it was his conviction that the landed interest, in which he
was himself concerned, was under erroneous impressions on the subject.
The debate which followed brought out speeches from many of the men who
afterwards took so prominent a part in promoting or opposing the repeal
of the corn-laws--such as Mr. Mark Philips (member for Manchester), Lord
Stanley, Lord Howick, and Sir Robert Peel. The first-named made a useful
and practical speech; Lord Stanley an absurd one; Lord Howick was as
capricious and crotchetty as on most other occasions; Sir Robert
Peel repeated himself and other hack orators on the side of the
protectionists. Mr. Villiers made a calm and effective reply, in which
he especially directed his skill as a debater to the exposure of the
fallacies of Sir Robert Peel, whose ignorance or partizanship he
handled with a calm and dignified severity. On a division the motion
was rejected by three hundred and sixty-one against one hundred and
seventy-two.


THE AFFAIRS OF IRELAND DISCUSSED IN PARLIAMENT.

On the 1st of January an Irish nobleman, Lord Norbury, was savagely
murdered. His lordship was shot within sight of his own house, in clear
daylight, with many people at hand, and yet the assassin escaped with
impunity. The occurrence was the more shocking, because the deceased
nobleman was a most exemplary character both as a man and as a landlord.
His lordship expired on the 3rd of January, after forty-three hours of
suffering; and on the same day a notification to the magistrates was
issued by the lord-lieutenant of the county, requesting their attendance
on the 10th instant, to consider the measures necessary to be taken
in consequence of the late outrage. This meeting was held, under the
auspices of Lord Osmantown, at Tullamore, and in the course of it
resolutions to the following effect were unanimously adopted:--"That
it appears to this meeting, that property had its duties as well as its
rights; that the answer conveyed to the magistrates of Tipperary by
Mr. under-secretary Drummond has had the effect of increasing the
animosities entertained against the owners of the soil, and has
emboldened the disturbers of the public peace. That finding from the
circumstances mentioned in the former resolutions that there is little
room to hope for a successful appeal to the Irish executive, we feel
it a duty to apply to the people of England, the legislature, and the
throne, for protection. That the magistrates assembled are determined
to co-operate with the government in any manner pointed out by her
majesty's ministers which may give the slightest hope of restoring
tranquillity in this distracted country." In the meantime the opposite
party made efforts of counteraction. Mr. O'Connell was indefatigable
in stirring up his Precursor Society and other similar machines of
agitation. Festivals were even held in honour of the demagogue; and at
one of these Mr. O'Connell actually asserted that the assassin of Lord
Norbury had left on the soil where he had posted himself, not the print
of a rustic brogue, but the impress of a well-made Dublin boot. By this
and other insinuations, indeed, the arch-agitator directed the minds of
the audience to the conclusion that the earl had met his death at the
hands of one bound to him by the nearest of natural ties--his son.

The state of Ireland being such, it naturally became a subject for
discussion in parliament. On the 7th of March Mr. Shaw moved for
returns of the number of committals, convictions, inquests, rewards, and
advertisements for the discovery of offenders in Ireland, from 1835 to
1839, in order to enable the house to form a judgment with regard to
the actual amount and increase of crime in that country. Lord Morpeth
expressed his satisfaction at the course Mr. Shaw had taken; instead of
appealing to parliament for a verdict of censure upon government, he had
simply moved for papers. There could be no objection to the issue of any
information respecting Lord Normanby's administration: he might, indeed,
move for returns applicable to a period beyond the last four years, in
the confidence that the late lord-lieutenant would have nothing to fear
from the comparison. Mr. Colquhoun endeavoured to show, from a long
enumeration of cases, that crime had been gaining ground under the
system of agitation which prevailed, and which was connived at by the
present government. Colonel Conolly, and Messrs. Villiers, Stuart,
Litton, and Emerson Tennent, all urged the same serious charge against
the Irish administration which had been made by preceding speakers, Mr.
O'Connell, after delivering a violent speech, in which he was constantly
interrupted, and in which he charged several members with coming to
parliament for the sole purpose of villifying their native land, moved
that after the word "Ireland" there be added the words, "also similar
returns for England, Wales, and Scotland." The last speaker on this
evening was Serjeant Jackson, who maintained that by almost every
single exercise of patronage, and especially by the appointment of
Lord Ebrington to the viceroyalty, government had favoured the cause of
agitation. The debate was resumed on the 11th of March, when the house
was addressed by Messrs. Lefroy, French, and Sir Charles Styles. As
the latter gentleman was speaking the house was counted out, and the
discussion, which had little reference to the motion, therefore dropped.
The subject of the state of Ireland was introduced in the upper house
on the 21st of March by Lord Roden, who moved for a select committee
of inquiry into the state of Ireland since 1835, with respect to the
commission of crime. His lordship, indeed, adopted the most inculpatory
view of the question, and every circumstance in his delineation of the
matter--the deeply-rooted ribbon conspiracy; the unredressed grievances
of the persecuted Protestants at Achill, and the general insecurity of
life and property, were, in his opinion, either created by the conduct
of Lord Normanby, or had acquired an aggravated character under his
auspices. In reply Lord Normanby vindicated his administration with very
great ability. Lord Melbourne also ably defended the noble marquis. The
Duke of Wellington and Lord Brougham offered an earnest and eloquent
support to Lord Roden's motion. The two noble lords spoke as if they had
had a previous concert and arrangement. This alliance of Lord Brougham
with the Duke of Wellington did not silence Lord Plunkett. He begged to
know what course Lord Brougham would pursue in the event of the motion
being carried. Had he any measure of his own to propose, or was he
willing to adopt the propositions of others? Was he willing to commit
all the friends with whom he had hitherto acted, and to surrender all
the principles and opinions which he had advocated throughout life? On a
division, Lord Boden's motion was carried by a majority of sixty-three
against fifty-eight: a result which gave great dissatisfaction to the
ministers. On the day following, indeed, Lord John Russell gave notice
of his intention to take the opinion of the house of commons on the
government of Ireland in late years in the very first week after the
Easter recess.

The vote of the house of lords also alarmed and gave umbrage to
Ireland's agitators. Incensed by it, Mr. O'Con-nell crossed St. George's
Channel as soon as the houses had arisen, in order to increase the
turbulence of his country. Day after day was he to be seen on the corn
exchange haranguing the multitude; on Sundays, after mass, he attended
parochial meetings; and the columns of the newspapers were filled with
the exercitations of his pen. On the 11th of April a grand meeting was
held in the theatre-royal, to prepare petitions to the queen and
the house of commons, declaratory of their confidence in the actual
administration of Ireland. On this occasion Mr. O'Connell exerted all
his eloquence to rouse the passions of his hearers, and their shouts
told that he was but too successful. "Shout!" he exclaimed at the close
of his harangue. The shout that that day emanated from that theatre
would be heard in St. Stephen's, and it would cheer the heart of the
queen at St. James's.

When the house of commons, resumed its sittings on the 8th of April,
Lord John Russell gave notice of his intention on the 15th to propose
the following resolution:--"That it is the opinion of this house that
it is expedient to persevere in those principles which have guided the
executive government of Ireland of late years, and which have tended to
the effectual administration of the laws and the general improvement of
that part of the United Kingdom." On the following day Sir Robert Peel
gave notice that he should move an amendment on this resolution, and on
the 12th the right honourable baronet brought forward the draught of his
resolutions. They read thus:--"Resolved, that on the 13th day of March
last, a motion was made in this house for the production of various
documents connected with the state of Ireland, in respect to crime and
outrage; including communications made to the Irish government relating
to offences connected with ribbonism, and all memorials, resolutions,
and addresses, forwarded to the Irish government by magistrates, or
other official persons, in respect of crimes and outrages committed in
Ireland, and the answers thereto. That the period included within the
returns so called for extends from the commencement of the year 1835 to
the present time; and that the motion made for the production of them
was assented to by this house, no opposition to it having been offered
to it on the part of her majesty's government. That on the 21st day of
March last, the house of lords appointed a select committee to inquire
into the state of Ireland since the year 1835, in respect to crime and
outrage, which have rendered life and property insecure in that part of
the empire. That, in consequence of the appointment of such committee by
the house of lords, it has been proposed that this house should resolve,
'That it is the opinion of this house that it is expedient to persevere
in those principles which have guided the executive government of late
years, and which have tended to the effectual administration of the
law, and the general improvement of that part of the United Kingdom.'
Resolved, that it appears to this house, that the appointment of a
committee of inquiry by the house of lords, under the circumstances,
and for the purposes above-mentioned, does not justify her majesty's
ministers in calling upon this house, without previous inquiry, or even
the production of the information which this house has required, to make
a declaration of opinion with respect to one branch of the public policy
of the executive government, still less a declaration of opinions, which
is neither explicit as to the principles which it professes to approve,
nor definite as to the period to which it refers; and that it is
not fitting that this house should adopt a proceeding which has the
appearance of calling in question the undoubted right of the house
of lords to inquire into the state of Ireland in respect to crime and
outrage, more especially when the exercise of that right by the house of
lords does not interfere with any previous proceeding or resolution of
the house of commons, nor with the progress of any legislative
measure assented to by the house of commons, or at present under its
consideration." The adroitness with which these resolutions were framed
are apparent, and needs no comment; they completely evaded all the
difficulties of the case. The situation of the ministers was also
rendered more difficult by the conduct of the radical section of the
house, whose tactics were called into play on this occasion. They felt
themselves bound, indeed, to support Lord John Russell's motion, but
then they wished him to go further. No sooner had Sir Robert Peel sat
down, indeed, than Mr. Duncombe stated that in the event of the noble
lord's resolution being-carried, it was in his contemplation to move an
addition to it in the following terms:--"And that it is expedient also
to effect such further reforms in the representation of the people in
parliament as would conduce to their contentment, and to the security
and welfare of the kingdom at large."

On the 15th of April Lord John Russell moved his long-announced
resolution of confidence on the part of the house in the executive
government of Ireland. His lordship dwelt at great length on the
constitutional right of the lords to make inquiry into the state of
Ireland and the conduct of its government. He did not deny that right;
but considering such a measure under all its circumstances, the
indiscriminate vehemence of the inculpations allowed to circulate, the
limitation of time, the very name of the mover, he could not but feel
that he was called upon to demand from the house of commons a definite
opinion upon the conduct of the Irish administration. Sir Robert
Peel contended that the noble lord's resolution was partial and
unintelligible. Mr. Spring Rice, in reply, contended that the vote
of the house of lords was a vote of censure upon government; and he
remonstrated against the unfairness of making the existence of crime
in Ireland a charge against the present government, when nobody ever
thought of censuring preceding administrations on account of turbulence
and outrages in Ireland. At the close of Mr. Spring Rice's speech the
debate was adjourned, and subsequently two adjournments took place.
In the course of the debate ministers were supported by Messrs. Smith
O'Brien, Bellew, Henry Grattan, Grote, Edward Lytton Bulwer, Hume, the
O'Connor Don, Sir William Somerville, and others, and opposed by Messrs.
Lascelles, Sidney Herbert, Lucas, Shaw, Colonel Conolly, Sir James
Graham, and others. Mr. Shiel delivered a long and eloquent speech in
defence of Lord Normanby. The debate was closed by Mr. O'Connell,
whose statements, as usual, were more distinguished for their animated
delivery than their accuracy. On a division Sir Robert Peel's amendment
was negatived by three hundred and eighteen against two hundred and
ninety-six; and Mr. Duncombe's rider by two hundred and ninety-nine
against eighty-one.


IRISH MUNICIPAL CORPORATIONS BILL.

On the 16th of February Lord Morpeth again moved for leave to bring in
a bill for the regulation of municipal corporations in Ireland. It has
been seen that the main point of dispute on this subject between the two
houses was the amount of the franchise; the house of lords contending
that it should be acquired by the occupation for twelve months of a
tenement of the value of ten pounds, to be made up of the sum at which
it was rated to the relief of the poor; and the house of commons, that
the occupation of a tenement rated at the net annual value of eight
pounds for six months should confer the qualification in question. It
was proposed to retain this last franchise in the present measure; and
the only material difference between the present and the former bill
consisted in a provision which was now made for the eventual adoption
of the English franchise. Lord Morpeth proposed that in whatever town,
otherwise competent to receive such institutions, the poor-law act
should have been in operation for three years, all persons resident for
that period, and rated to any amount, should be entitled to vote for the
election of municipal officers. The whole of schedule A, containing the
towns in which corporations were to be established, remained the same;
but with regard to schedule B, which enumerated those towns to which
municipal institutions might be granted on petition of the inhabitants,
it was proposed that, without the signatures of an absolute majority,
the crown might establish corporations in those places as well as in
any other town of three thousand inhabitants, in which there might be
a number of persons occupying premises at not less than £4 per annum,
sufficient to make up a constituency. On the second reading of the bill
it met with a stern opposition of the conservative party; but it was
eventually carried through by the small majority of twenty-six. The bill
was committed _pro-formâ_ on the 19th of April; but many delays took
place in order that thirty-four clauses, which should have made part of
the original measure, should be included. On the 4th of July, however,
the house went into committee upon clause twenty, which referred to the
value of the franchise. An attempt was made by Mr. Shaw to introduce a
£10 qualification, which had been the ultimatum of the Conservatives
in the last session: but after a short debate the original question was
carried by one hundred and fifty-four against fifty-four. Some other
minor amendments were subsequently proposed, but they were negatived;
and the bill was finally carried in the commons by a majority of
ninety-seven against seventy-six.

On the 22nd of July, the Irish Municipal Corporations bill was read a
second time in the house of lords. On the 25th of July, before the house
went into committee, Lord Lyndhurst gave notice of the amendments which
he intended to move in the course of the evening, and of his intention
to vote against the third reading, if the bill should come unaltered out
of the committee. The only amendment of the noble lord which gave rise
to any discussion after their lordships went into committee was for
raising the qualification from £8 to £10. This was objected to by Lord
Melbourne, who said, that he could not but think that their lordships
were acting no very worthy part, in raising difficulties in the way of
what they all considered desirable--the settlement of the question.
The Duke of Wellington administered a severe rebuke to his lordship for
uttering such a sentiment; and on a division the amendment was carried
by a majority of ninety-three against forty-three. A number of
minor amendments were also made in conformity with Lord Lyndhurst's
suggestions; and on the 5th of August the bill was read a third time,
and passed.

Lord John Russell moved the order of the day, for the consideration
of the lords' amendments, on the 12th of August; on which occasion he
stated that it was not advisable, in his opinion, to take objection to
the bill on the question of privilege, on account of certain clauses
transferring certain fiscal powers from the grand-juries to the new
town-councils, which had been struck out in the other house, and to send
it back to the lords. The only course to pursue would be to bring in a
new bill either now or at the beginning of the next session. He moved,
therefore, that the amendments be taken into consideration that day
three months, in the hope that he might be able finally to adjust the
question. This motion was agreed to.

On the 6th of August Lord Brougham brought forward several resolutions
on the administration of justice in Ireland under the Marquis of
Normanby. His lordship's remarks were chiefly confined to Lord
Normanby's public measures; and the debate in general was conducted in
a tone friendly to the noble marquis, even by the opposite party. At
the same time the resolutions were carried by a majority of eighty-six
against fifty-two.


PROCEEDINGS IN PARLIAMENT RESPECTING JAMAICA.

It has been seen that in the earlier part of the preceding year the
agitation on the subject of West India slavery had become general
throughout the kingdom, and that it gave rise to discussion in
parliament. An important bill was passed, entitled "An act to amend the
act for the abolition of slavery." Many salutary provisions were made
in this instrument for the further protection of the apprentices; and in
order to serve the execution of such regulations of the former enactment
as had been disregarded by the planters. This act was promulgated in
Jamaica by the governor on the 1st of June; and on the 5th of the same
month he convened the legislature of that colony. In his speech Sir
Lionel Smith informed the assembly that he had called the house together
to take into consideration the state of the island, and to recommend
the early and equal abolition of apprenticeship for all parties. The
assembly entered a warm remonstrance against the abolition amendment
act; but nevertheless on the 16th of June the governor gave the royal
assent to an act for the entire abolition of prædial apprenticeship from
the 1st of August, 1838.

On the arrival in England of the news of this voluntary abandonment on
the part of the planters of the remaining term of apprenticeship. Lord
Melbourne presented to the house of lords an important bill, founded on
the report of Captain Pringle, empowering her majesty in council to
make rules for the government of the West India prisons, to appoint
inspectors, and regulate other matters of necessary discipline. This
bill was sent out and promulgated by the governor in a proclamation
affixed to the doors of their house about six weeks before the meeting
of the assembly. That meeting took place on the 30th of October, and
their very first procedure was to pass four resolutions condemnatory of
Lord Melbourne's bill; complaining of the violation of their rights
by the parliament of Great Britain; asserting that as a body they (the
assembly) had ceased to exist for any useful purpose to the people
whom they represented; and that therefore they would abstain from
the exercise of any legislative function, excepting such as might be
necessary to preserve inviolate the faith of the island with the public
creditor, until her majesty's pleasure should be known, whether her
subjects of Jamaica, now in a state of freedom, should henceforth
be treated as subjects, with the power of making laws for their own
government, or as a conquered colony. Sir Lionel now prorogued the
assembly for a few days; but when they again met they asserted their
determination to adhere to their resolutions, and the result of their
contumacy was the final prorogation of their house.

In consequence of these transactions, on the 9th of April Mr.
Labouchere introduced a bill to suspend the existing constitution for
five years. In the meantime it was proposed to make provision for the
government of that colony by investing it _pro tempore_ in the hands of
a governor, and a council augmented by the accession of three persons,
who would be sent from England as commissioners, especially qualified by
experience to assist in the consideration of some of the more important
topics to which their early attention would be directed, as the
improvement of the negroes, the poor-laws, and prison discipline. This
interval, it was said, would give time for the enactment of such laws
as were called for by the transition state of the colony, and the
government afterwards proposed to restore the ancient constitution,
subject to the requisite modifications. The introduction of this measure
was not opposed by the Conservatives. The bill arrived at the second
reading on the 23rd of April, when Sir Robert Peel stated that he would
again allow it to be read _pro formâ_. Counsel would then be heard
at the bar against the measure: he was even content to have the bill
committed, and take the discussion on the question that the speaker do
now leave the chair. At the same time, before they proceeded to suspend
the constitution of Jamaica for five years, and to vest so great an
authority of taxation in an unpopular government, he could wish to give
to the assembly the power of reconsidering their course, and returning
to their duties. If the house of assembly should still adhere to their
refractory courses, he was disposed to confide to ministers the power
of carrying on the government for a time, until parliament should decide
otherwise; or if it could be further shown that public business would be
prejudiced by such delay, he would, make no more opposition to the
bill. Counsel were then heard; the cause of the colony being pleaded
by Sergeant Mereweather and Mr. Burge, the accredited agent of the
colonies. The debate on the question was opened on the 3rd of May, when
Sir Robert Peel expressed his disappointment that it had not been found
practicable to come to some arrangement with regard to the government of
Jamaica without any party conflict, or even any serious division on
the course to be pursued. He thought that the temporary abrogation of
a popular form of government was by no means desirable. Mr. Labouchere
maintained that the result of the great experiment of emancipation
would depend on the fate of this bill. The only chance of securing the
investment of English capital, and ensuring success to the experiments
to be tried of cultivating the estates by free labour, lay in the timely
introduction of proper regulations. It would be vexatious if, after all,
the negroes should take to squatting, and pass their lives in indolence;
but half of the good work would have been achieved until the black was
raised to the condition of a free and laborious citizen. As matters
stood, the negroes refused to enter into contracts; the only method
for obtaining from the black population the continuous labour which was
notoriously indispensable for the cultivation of sugar, was to induce
them to enter into an agreement to work uninterruptedly for a stipulated
sum of money. So arbitrary and partial, however, was the power assigned
by the present law of contract, that the negro was reluctant to engage
on such conditions. This called for alteration; and so likewise did
the law relating to the militia, as well as the vagrancy law and the
constitution of the courts of justice. It would also be advisable to
introduce some measure of relief for the poor; but nothing could
be effected in the present discontinuance of all legislation. Mr.
Labouchere added, that the present measure, though avowedly an arbitrary
one, would, after all, only place Jamaica on the same footing with the
other crown colonies, who were administered by a governor and council.
He concluded by proposing two years and a half instead of five as the
shortest interval within which the measures in contemplation could
be prepared. Mr. Godson opposed the measure; and Mr. Charles Buller
delivered a clever speech in its support. Mr. Hume expressed his
reluctance to separate himself from the government on this question;
but he could not vote in favour of such injustice. Sir George Grey
vindicated the measure, noticing a variety of instances in which the
assembly had eluded the recommendations of government in favour of
the negroes, and referring, in proof of his assertion, to several
conservative authorities.

The house then adjourned; and the debate was opened on the following
Monday by Mr. Maclean. The bill on this night was supported by Sir
Eardley Wilmot, and Messrs. Warburton and O'Connell; and opposed by
Messrs. Grote, Gaily Knight, Goulburn, Gladstone, and Lord Stanley. The
debate was closed by Lord John Russell, who enumerated a short summary
of the arguments for the bill, and declaimed against those of his usual
supporters who were about to desert him. On a division the measure was
carried by a majority of five only, the numbers being, in favour of
the bill, two hundred and ninety-four; against it, two hundred and
eighty-nine.


RESIGNATION OF MINISTERS, AND FAILURE OF SIR ROBERT PEEL TO FORM A NEW
ADMINISTRATION, ETC.

The result of the debate on the Jamaica suspension bill was followed by
the resignation of the ministers. On the 7th of May the leading members
of the administration in both houses declared their inability to carry
on the government with advantage to the public service, and that they
had in consequence tendered their resignations, which her majesty had
graciously accepted. After the lapse of a week the house of commons
again met, when Lord John Russell stated, that since he last addressed
them Sir Robert Peel had received authority from her majesty to form a
new administration; and that the attempt of the right honourable baronet
having failed, her majesty had been graciously pleased to permit that
gentleman to state the circumstances which had led to that failure. In
explanation, Sir Robert Peel said that her majesty had invited the Duke
of Wellington to assist her in the formation of a new government;
and that his grace had informed her that, in his opinion, the chief
difficulties a government would have to encounter would be in the house
of commons; and for that and other reasons the noble duke had advised
her majesty to send for him as the person best qualified to undertake
the duties of prime minister. Her majesty accordingly sent for him, and
when he waited on her, he stated his sense of the difficulties a new
government would have to encounter; but that, having been a party to
the vote of the house which led to those difficulties, nothing should
prevent him from tendering to her majesty every assistance in his power.
Subsequently he submitted the following list of names to her majesty for
approval in the formation of the new cabinet:--The Duke of Wellington,
Lords Lyndhurst, Aberdeen, Ellenborough, and Stanley; Sirs James Graham,
and Henry Hardinge, and Mr. Goulburn. Sir Robert proceeded to state
that no difficulties arose to lead to his relinquishing to form a new
administration until Thursday; and that difficulty arose, he said,
exclusively from that portion of the household which is filled by the
ladies in her majesty's service. On the Wednesday night previous to this
event, he had stated to those whom he proposed to submit to her majesty
as ministers, the course he intended to pursue with respect to the
household. He had little considered the subject; and with regard to the
female part of it, he scarcely knew of whom it consisted. He took the
red book in his hand, however, and there saw the different appointments.
He then stated that with reference to all the subordinate appointments
below the rank of a lady of the bedchamber, he should propose no change
to her majesty; and that with respect to the superior class he took
for granted they would relieve him from any difficulty, by at once
relinquishing their offices. If such offices, however, should not be
voluntarily relinquished, he gave it as his opinion that they should be
subject to some change, although in some instances the absence of all
political feeling might render any such change unnecessary. On the
Thursday he saw her majesty, when he made a verbal communication to
such an effect. He would not enter into the precise nature of this
communication, but simply read two letters which had subsequently
passed: one, conveying her majesty's impressions, and the other his own.
These letters read thus:--


"_Buckingham Palace, May 10th_, 1839.

"The queen having considered the proposal made to her yesterday by Sir
Robert Peel, to remove the ladies of her bedchamber, cannot consent to
adopt a course which she conceives to be contrary to usage, and which is
repugnant to her feelings."


"_Whitehall, May 10th_, 1839.

"Sir Robert Peel presents his humble duty to your majesty, and has
had the honour of receiving your majesty's note of this morning. In
respectfully submitting to your majesty's pleasure, and humbly returning
into your majesty's hands the important trust which your majesty had
been graciously pleased to transmit to him, Sir Robert Peel trusts that
your majesty will permit him to state to your majesty, his impression
with respect to the circumstances which have led to the termination of
his attempt to form an administration for the conduct of your majesty's
service. In the interview with which your majesty honoured Sir Robert
Peel yesterday morning, after he had submitted to your majesty the
names of those whom he proposed to recommend to the principal executive
appointments, he mentioned to your majesty his earnest wish, to be
enabled by your majesty's sanction, so to constitute your majesty's
household that your majesty's confidential servants might have the
advantage of a public demonstration of your majesty's full support and
confidence; and that at the same time, as far as possible consistently
with that demonstration, each individual appointment in the household
should be entirely acceptable to your majesty's personal feelings. On
your majesty expressing a desire that the Earl of Liverpool should hold
an office in the household, Sir Robert Peel requested your majesty's
permission at once to offer to Lord Liverpool the office of
lord-steward, or any other which he might prefer. Sir Robert Peel then
observed, that he should have every wish to apply a similar principle to
the chief appointments which are filled by the ladies of your majesty's
household: upon which your majesty was pleased to remark that you must
reserve the whole of these appointments, and that it was your majesty's
pleasure the whole should continue, as at present, without change. The
Duke of Wellington, in the interview to which your majesty subsequently
admitted him, understood that this was your majesty's determination, and
concurred with Sir Robert Peel in opinion, that, considering the great
difficulties of the present crisis, and the expediency of making every
effort in the first instance to conduct the public business of the
country with the aid of the present parliament, it was essential to
the success of the commission with which your majesty had honoured Sir
Robert Peel, that he should have that public proof of your majesty's
entire support and confidence, which would be afforded by the permission
to make some changes in that part of your majesty's household, which
your majesty resolved on maintaining entirely without change. Having
had the opportunity, through your majesty's gracious consideration, of
reflecting upon this point, he humbly submits to your majesty that he is
reluctantly compelled, by a sense of public duty and of the interest of
your majesty's service, to adhere to the opinion which he expressed to
your majesty. He trusts he may be permitted at the same time to express
to your majesty his grateful acknowledgments for the distinction which
your majesty conferred upon him, by requiring his advice and assistance
in the formation of an administration, and his earnest prayers that
whatever arrangements your majesty may be enabled to make for that
purpose, may be most conducive to your majesty's personal comfort and
happiness, and to the promotion of the public welfare."


After reading these letters, Sir Robert Peel proceeded to notice certain
misrepresentations with regard to his conduct in this affair, and
to vindicate his policy in requiring the change alluded to in those
letters. Lord John Russell replied at great length, and in reference
to the point which proved a stumblingblock to Sir Robert Peel in
his efforts to form an administration, said, that her majesty, after
relating all the circumstances, was pleased to ask him whether he
thought she was justified in making the refusal of a change in her
household to the required extent? His lordship said, he replied that he
thought her majesty was justified; and then she was pleased to observe,
that as in the exercise of the powers of the crown she had hitherto
given her support to the administration, she hoped I would consider
myself bound now to support her majesty in return. His lordship
then proceeded to state that on the next day a cabinet was held in
Downing-street, at which her majesty's confidential servants having
taken into consideration the letter addressed by her majesty to Sir
Robert Peel, and the reply of the right honourable baronet, were of
opinion that for the purpose of giving to the administration that
character of efficiency and stability, and those marks of the
constitutional support of the crown, which are required to enable it
to act usefully to the public service, it is reasonable that the great
officers of the court, and situations held in the household by members
of parliament, should be included in the political arrangements made
in a change of the administration; but they were not of opinion that a
similar principle should be applied or extended to the offices held by
ladies in her majesty's household. Lord John Russell concluded by saying
that he conceived that those who thought her majesty justified in what
she had done, should not refuse to assume the responsibility which
belongs to their opinion; and that they should neither conceal nor evade
the avowal of it, but should trust to the opinion of parliament, and of
the country as to the result. In reply Sir Robert Peel said that Lord
John Russell had relieved him from the greatest load of anxiety he had
ever suffered under during his whole life; and as there was no important
difference in their explanations, he thought it would be more respectful
to her majesty to let the matter rest where it was. On the following
evening a supplementary explanation of these matters was given in the
lords; but as it would be mere repetition, it is not necessary to
detail any portion of the speeches delivered. In the end the cabinet was
reconstructed, and the first act of the house of commons, when it again
met, was to elect Mr. Shaw Lefevre to the office of speaker, in the
room of Mr. Abercrombie, who had three weeks previously declared his
intention of resigning. Mr. Goulburn was nominated by the Conservatives
in opposition to Mr. Shaw Lefevre; but the latter gentleman was elected
by a majority of three hundred and seventeen against two hundred and
ninety-nine. Mr. Shaw Lefevre took the chair accordingly.


NATIONAL EDUCATION.

Since the year 1833 parliament had granted annually the sum of £20,000
for the purposes of education. This money had been equally divided
between the National Society and the British and Foreign Bible Society.
Government, however, were not satisfied with merely asking an increase;
they required liberty to change entirely the mode of its distribution.
Their views on this subject were first made known to the house on the
12th of February, when Lord John Russell, in presenting certain papers
connected with education, gave an outline of his views upon it, and
stated the determination of himself and colleagues respecting it.
His lordship proposed that the president of the council, and other
privy-councillors, not exceeding five, should form a board for the
consideration of the manner in which the grants made by parliament
should be distributed. He further stated that the first object of such a
board should be the establishment of a good normal school; and, in order
to make that as perfect as possible, attention should be mainly directed
to four objects--religious instruction; general education; moral
training; and habits of industry, applied in learning some trade or
profession. This brief outline was regarded with various feelings by
the house and the public. Sir Robert Inglis confessed the noble lord
had proposed to do less evil than he expected; while Mr. Wyse complained
that he proposed much less good than was hoped for. The manner in which
this step was followed up by the government subsequently was unfolded in
a minute of the privy-council. This minute recommended that the sum of
£10,000 granted by parliament in 1835 towards the erection of normal
or model schools, should be given in equal proportions to the National
Society and the British and Foreign School Society; and that the
remainder of the subsequent grants of the years 1837 and 1838 yet
unappropriated, any grant that may be voted in the present year,
be chiefly applied in aid of subscriptions for buildings; and, in
particular cases, for the support of schools connected with these
societies. The report further stated, that the committee did not feel
themselves precluded from making grants in particular cases which
shall appear to them to call for the aid of government, although the
application may not come from either of the two mentioned societies.
The opinion of the committee, it was stated, was that the most useful
applications of any sums voted by parliament, would consist in the
employment of those moneys in the establishment of a normal school,
under the direction of the state, and not placed under the management of
a voluntary society. Finally, the committee recommended that no further
grant be made now or hereafter for the establishment or support of
normal schools, or of any other schools, unless the right of inspection
be retained, in order to secure a conformity to the regulations and
discipline established in the several schools, with such improvements as
may from time to time be suggested by the committee. The report added,
that a part of any grant voted in the present year might be usefully
applied to the purposes of inspection, and to the means of acquiring
a complete knowledge of the present state of education in England and
Wales. The day after these resolutions appeared, Lord Ashley moved a
call of the house for the 14th of June. This motion was seconded by
Lord John Russell, who embraced the opportunity of warning the members
against the petitions which had been presented against the ministerial
scheme. Great error and misrepresentation, his lordship said, prevailed
on this subject throughout the country. At the same time he stated that
government would not persist in their proposal to found a normal school.
His lordship concluded by some remarks on the merits of the National
and British and Foreign School Society; and by stating that he should be
ready to go into the report of the committee of the privy-council, and
should also propose that the vote of £30,000, of which he had given
notice, should be divided as it hitherto had been, between the two
societies. Lord Stanley objected to the proposition for giving a direct
control over the moral and the religious education of the people to a
board or committee exclusively political in its character, and having
no fixed principle of action. His lordship also objected to the plan
for giving a secular rather than a religious education; contending that
schoolmasters entrusted with the instruction of youth should be of sound
doctrine. He concluded by moving an amendment to this effect, "That an
address be presented to her majesty to rescind the order in council for
constituting the proposed board of privy-council." Lord Morpeth
said that he conceived that the speech of Lord Stanley went to this
extent--to separate by a specific vote of the house the executive
government of the country from all superintendence and control over the
general education of the people. He combated this notion at considerable
length; arguing that so long as the state thought proper to employ Roman
Catholic sinews, and to finger Unitarian gold, it could not refuse to
extend to those by whom it so profited the blessings of education. Lord
Ashley said that he considered the scheme propounded to the house to
be hostile to the constitution, to the church, and to revealed religion
itself, although he did not mean to assert it was unconstitutional. The
remainder of the debate was conducted by Mr. Wyse, Mr. D'Israeli, Sir
Robert Inglis, Mr. O'Connell, Mr. Gladstone, and Sir Robert Peel. The
house divided on the original question, that the order of the day for
a committee of supply be read, which was carried by a majority of two
hundred and eighty against two hundred and seventy-five. In accordance
with this vote Lord John Russell, on the 24th of June, moved that
the house should resolve itself into a committee of supply, in which
committee, after recapitulating many of the arguments previously urged
by himself and other members, he proposed that £30,000 be granted by her
majesty for public education in Great Britain for the year 1839.
Lord Mahon said, he felt it his duty to meet the motion with a direct
negative. The debate which followed was chiefly remarkable for an
eloquent speech delivered by Mr. Shiel in support of the motion. After
a few words from Mr. Goulburn in opposition to the grant, the committee
divided, and Lord John Russell's proposition was carried by a majority
of two only, the numbers being, for the grant, two hundred and
seventy-five; against it, two hundred and seventy-three.

The subject of national education was introduced in the lords on the
5th of July, by the Archbishop of Canterbury; who, after defending the
clergy from the attacks made on them by certain parties in regard to
this government scheme, and entering into some details of the progress
of education in this country, moved a series of resolutions condemnatory
of the proposed system of education; and the resolutions were carried
by a majority of two hundred and twenty-nine against one hundred and
eighteen.

In consequence of this majority the lords went in a body to her majesty
to offer their remonstrance against the proposed alteration in the
manner of distributing the educational grant.

At a later period of the session Lord Brougham brought forward his
plan for educating the people; but its merits were not canvassed by the
house, and the consideration of it was adjourned till next session.


AFFAIRS OF CANADA.

On the 11th of February Lord Melbourne laid the report of Lord Durham,
and other papers, on the table of the house of lords, expressing a hope
at the same time, that before the Easter recess he should be enabled
to introduce a measure for the purpose of putting a speedy end to the
discontents in that part of the empire. This report had appeared in the
columns of the _Times_ newspaper some days before it was presented to
either house of parliament; in allusion to which unusual circumstance,
Lord Durham said he deeply regretted the premature publication of it.
His subsequent statement, however, proved that it could not have been
a matter of surprise to his lordship. There had been, he said, an
understanding with the ministry that the document should be printed
before the meeting of parliament, in order to save time, and accordingly
two thousand copies were prepared; and he had himself half a dozen for
circulation among his private friends. It would appear from this report
that the chief cause of all the troubles that had disturbed Lower Canada
was to be found in the spirit of exasperation that had grown up between
the two races by whom it was peopled. It was possible, it stated, that
under a better system of management this temper would never have been
called forth, and that the present disparity between the numbers of
the two races would not have existed. During the eighty years that
had elapsed since the conquest of Canada, the French inhabitants had
increased from sixty thousand to four hundred and fifty thousand souls,
while the English settlers amounted to no more than a fourth of the
entire population, notwithstanding the great influx of emigrants which
had taken place between the years 1829 and 1837. Another source of evil
pointed out by Lord Durham in his report was the lack of education in
the colonies. According to returns laid before parliament in 1835, there
were in Lower Canada, besides several Roman Catholic colleges, and a
number of private seminaries for the higher branches of education, two
grammar-schools, one at Quebec and the other at Montreal, and in the
three districts of Quebec, Montreal, and Three Rivers, thirty-seven
free-schools, with nearly two thousand scholars. In addition to these
there were established, under a provincial act of parliament,
one thousand one hundred and seventy-one elementary schools, with
thirty-seven thousand six hundred and fifty-eight scholars, distributed
through the colonies, and placed under the superintendence of trustees
annually elected by the inhabitants. The utility of these schools,
however, may be estimated by this passage from Lord Durham's
report:--"It came to my knowledge that out of a great number of boys and
girls assembled at the school-house door of St. Thomas, all but three
were admitted upon inquiry to be unable to read; yet the children of
this large parish attend school regularly, and make use of books. They
hold the catechism-book in their hands as if they were reading, while
they only repeat its contents, which they know by rote." The only
exception to this state of things made by Lord Durham was in favour of
the Catholic clergy, who were represented by him as a respectable and
well-conducted class of men, and well-disposed towards the government.
The report further stated that there was no combination between the
two races for public objects. All public meetings, no matter for what
purpose they were called, were attended exclusively by one or the other
of the races. They could not harmonize even in associations of charity;
and the only public occasion on which they met was in the jury-box, and
then they met only to obstruct justice. With such feelings existing
in the colony, there could be no wonder that insurrections and tumults
abounded.

No discussion arose on the presentation of Lord Durham's report to the
lords. On the 15th of February the Duke of Wellington moved an address
to her majesty for copies of the correspondence of Sir F. Head with her
majesty's government on the affairs of Upper Canada; and also for copies
of the correspondence of Sir J. Colborne and her majesty's government
relative to the establishment of rectories in Upper Canada.
Viscount Melbourne said he was ready to produce such portions of the
correspondence as appeared to be necessary for the defence of Sir F.
Head, or which afforded general information; he further suggested that
the motion should be for "copies or extracts" as to the correspondence
of Sir J. Colborne relative to the establishment of rectories. The Duke
of Wellington, in reply, intimated that, although he thought the whole
correspondence ought to be produced, he would alter his motion according
to the suggestion of the noble viscount. The Earl of Aberdeen said it
was impossible for the house to legislate upon the affairs of Canada
without being in possession of this correspondence; and the Earl of
Wick-low contended that there should be superadded any report given
by Lords Gosford or Aylnaer. On the 19th of February Lord Winchilsea
further moved, that a humble address be presented to her majesty,
praying that she would be graciously pleased to order to be laid upon
the table of the house any correspondence that had passed between her
Majesty's government and Lord Durham, relative to the appointment of Mr.
Turton as his lordship's secretary. This was a topic which had excited
severe animadversion in parliament, as well as on the part of the public
press; but it does not appear that government had anything to do with
it, or that there were any papers to be produced. In the desultory
conversation which followed, indeed, Lord Durham took the whole
responsibility of the appointment on himself, and insisted that he was
justified in making that appointment. He had known Mr. Turton from his
earliest infancy; and he knew also his high professional reputation. He
had been employed as advocate-general in India, by Lords Combermere and
Amherst, and had discharged his office so much to the satisfaction of
the governor and council in India, that they voted him five thousand
sicca rupees, and a vote of thanks for his conduct. It was not to be
endured, therefore, that he was to be taunted for appointing to this
trumpery office a man who had previously filled the highest judicial
functions in India. Lord Durham concluded by threatening that if this
matter were proceeded in further by parliament he would not rest until
he had obtained an inquiry into the case of every public man who had
received official employment after having been convicted of the same
kind of immorality as Mr. Turton.

On the 3rd of May Lord Melbourne presented the following message from
the queen to the imperial parliament:--"Her majesty thinks it proper
to acquaint the house of lords, that it appears to her majesty that the
future welfare of her majesty's subjects in Upper and Lower Canada would
be promoted by the union of the said provinces into one province for
the purpose of legislating, from and after the period to be fixed
by parliament. Her majesty therefore recommends it to the house, to
consider such measures as may be submitted to them for that purpose. Her
majesty is persuaded that the house of lords will be careful to combine
a due regard for the peace and security of these important provinces
with such provisions as may be conducive to the welfare of England, and
the permanent freedom and prosperity of her majesty's North American
provinces." The idea of uniting the two provinces originated in Lord
Durham's report, in which he gave several cogent reasons for such a
measure. The subject was taken into consideration on the 3rd of
June, when Lord John Russell said it became his duty to call upon
the parliament to lay the foundation of a permanent settlement of the
affairs of Canada. In his speech, his lordship recapitulated the various
circumstances connected with the subject of Canadian affairs. With
reference to the recommendation contained in her majesty's message, Lord
John said that the act of 1791 was founded on two principles: first,
that by dividing the province into two the French population might
remain in that portion called Lower Canada, whilst British emigrants
would have free scope for their industry, and power to establish their
own institutions and customs, in the other portion of the province,
which was to be called Upper Canada. Another reason was, the French
inhabitants being very loyal to the crown, of very simple habits, and
possessing institutions to which they were attached, it was advisable
that means for maintaining those institutions should be reserved to
them. His lordship acknowledged that there might have been at the time
reasons for introducing the constitutional act of 1791, but argued at
great length that it was a mistaken act of policy. The grievances which
had arisen out of it were manifold; and as a remedy for them he proposed
the re-union of the two provinces. Other remedies had been suggested,
but his lordship thought that they were not sufficient to meet the
exigencies of the case. In support of his own proposition his lordship
stated that there were many persons in Lower Canada anxious for such a
union, and that the legislature of Upper Canada had decided in favour of
the plan. The noble lord concluded by moving these resolutions:--I. "It
is the opinion of the house that it is expedient to form a legislative
union of the provinces of Upper and Lower Canada, on the principles of a
free and representative government, in such a manner as may most conduce
to the prosperity and contentment of the people of the united provinces.
II. That it is expedient to continue until 1842 the powers vested in the
governor and special council of Lower Canada, by an act of last session,
with such alteration of those powers as may be deemed advisable." Mr.
Hume protested against this plan, and Mr. Goulburn moved the adjournment
of the house. Sir Robert Peel expressed his surprise to find that it was
not the intention of her majesty's government to propose any legislative
measure in the present session, having reference to Canada. His
parliamentary experience was entirely against resolutions pledging
the house to any particular course. The debate was adjourned to the
following Monday, when Lord John Russell stated his intention of
withdrawing his resolution, pledging the house to the abstract principle
of a union of Upper and Lower Canada; giving as his reason for this
change in the policy of government, the strong protest against such a
measure on the part of the commons house of assembly of Upper Canada; a
protest which was contained in a report drawn up by a select committee
of that body and presented to her majesty. With reference to the second
resolution, Lord John Russell proposed the continuation for three more
years of the power now placed in the hands of the governor and special
council of Lower Canada. On the resumption of the debate on the 13th
of June, Lord John Russell moved for the withdrawal of the first
resolution. He was still of opinion, he said, that at some future period
such an union should be carried into effect, but in the meanwhile he
thought it necessary that certain exciting topics should be disposed of
by the legislature. Accordingly he proposed to introduce a measure for
the continuance of the act of last session, for the suspension of the
constitution until 1842, and at the same time amending that act in
several particulars. The amendments proposed by his lordship were the
alteration of the clause authorizing the governor to suspend the
_habeas corpus_ act; the alteration of the clause known as Sir William
Follett's, limiting its operation to measures affecting the clergy, on
the tenures of land; and the introduction of a new clause, giving power
to impose rates and taxes not to be paid into the public treasury, but
to be applied to such local purposes as watching and the roads. With
regard to the bill for the union of the provinces, his lordship said,
that he thought it might be necessary to change some of its provisions.
The bill he would ask to introduce provided for the establishment of a
central district at Montreal and its neighbourhood, where the meetings
of the assembly should be held. The other parts of Upper and Lower
Canada he proposed to divide into two districts. There would then be
a central district, and four other districts. Each of these was to be
subdivided into nine other districts, so that supposing each division
to return two members, there would be ninety members for the electoral
divisions. In addition to these, his lordship proposed that the
four largest towns should return two members, making in the whole
ninety-eight. After a brief discussion, leave was given to bring in the
bill, and to amend the act of last session, appointing a provisional
government.

It was not until the 4th of July that Lord John Russell moved the order
of the day for the second reading of this bill. The discussion which
followed was a mere repetition of former debates. The bill was then read
a second time.

Lord John Russell moved the order of the day forgoing into a committee
of the whole house on the 11th of July, when Sir William Molesworth
moved a resolution, the object of which was to declare on the part of
the house, that considerations of humanity, justice, and sound policy
demanded that parliament should apply itself without delay to legislate
for the permanent government of the Canadas.

The debate which followed threw no new light upon Canadian affairs, or
the policy which ought to be pursued towards the people of the Canadian
provinces. The discussions, however, demonstrated the incapacity of the
government to deal with matters of such magnitude, and the desire of
the opposition to sacrifice justice and expediency to party spirit. The
house divided, and the original motion was carried by a majority of two
hundred and twenty-three against twenty-eight.

In the committee Mr. Hume objected to the first clause, which
appertained to the increased number of councillors, as only making an
addition to despotism; but the clause was carried by a large majority.
On the second clause being moved, Lord Stanley objected to it as
enlarging the extraordinary powers already granted to the governor and
council; but, after much discussion, it was carried by a majority of one
hundred and seventy-six against one hundred and fifty-six. On the 4th
clause being proposed, Sir Robert Peel moved an amendment to prevent any
alteration in the law of tenures, which was agreed to; and the remaining
clauses were then passed, and the report of the committee ordered to be
received on the following Monday.

This bill was brought forward in the house of lords on the 20th of July,
by the Marquis of Normanby, who, in introducing it, confined himself
to its immediate subjects, and to an explanation of its intentions. The
bill, as amended by the commons, was carried. Thus ended all attempts to
legislate for the Canadas in the session of 1839: the great expectations
formed at the commencement of the session on this important subject were
doomed to be disappointed in the results. Conversations of a personal
nature took place, but neither party approached the question as became
the legislators of a great and mighty empire. Government, it is
true, intimated that they had framed a plan for the union of the two
provinces, but it was scarcely intimated before it was abandoned.
Finally came forth the fragment of a measure which had not the
confidence of either party, but which was nevertheless passed into a
law.


THE SECOND JAMAICA BILL, ETC.

On the 30th of May Mr. Labouchere brought forward a second measure
relative to the affairs of Jamaica. In the newly-proposed bill ministers
had resolved to call together once more the colonial assembly, in order
to allow them what had been termed a _locus penitentio_. This assembly
represented the necessity of ameliorating the existing laws regarding
vagrancy, the relation between master and servant, the state of the
militia, and the electoral qualification. At the same time no fewer than
seventeen annual acts of importance had been suffered by the assembly
to expire, although in many cases the peace of the colony depended upon
them. The first clause of the bill related to those matters which did
not fall under the head of expired enactments, as vagrancy, contracts,
and squatting. With reference to these questions, orders had already
been transmitted to the crown colonies, and were now in successful
operation. By the bill, therefore, the assembly of Jamaica would be
referred to them, with injunctions to legislate in conformity with the
spirit of those provisions; and should they fail to do so, it would be
competent for the governor, with the aid of the council, after a certain
interval, to make tire requisite laws, _mutatis mutandis_, upon the
models which had before been indicated. The object of the second
clause was to leave a certain time to the assembly for re-enacting
the seventeen annual laws, and to invest the governor in council with
authority to renew them, in the event of their failing to do so. A brief
conversation took place, in which Sir Robert Peel declined offering any
opinion on the merits of the bill in its present stage, and the house
went into committee upon it. On the 10th of June Sir Edward Sugden
proposed on this occasion to omit the first clause of the bill,
after which he proceeded to dissect its provisions with considerable
acuteness. Mr. Labouchere defended the measure, and Messrs. Gladstone
and Goulburn objected to it. The latter said that tire present bill
differed but little from the former, and, in his opinion, only differed
for the worse, as it offered a premium to the council for disapproving
of the acts of the assembly, in order that it might itself acquire the
power of legislating in its place. On a division the clause was carried
by a majority of two hundred and twenty-eight against one hundred and
ninety-four: a result which was chiefly owing to the circumstance that
the Conservatives were not prepared for so early a division, but which
was nevertheless received with great cheering from the ministerial
benches. The order of the day was moved for the third reading on the
19th of June, when Mr. Labouchere stated that the time left to the
assembly for deliberation could be extended from the 1st to the 15th of
October. The bill was then read without opposition; but Mr. Goulburn
immediately rose to move the omission of the first clause, in which he
was seconded by Mr. Hume. Lord John Russell urged that the rejection
of that clause would prevent any useful legislation on the subjects
embraced by its provisions, and that the constitutional difficulty
rather rested on the second section. Sir Robert Peel contended that the
government was about to give just grounds of complaint to the assembly.
In reply, Mr. Labouchere admitted that the method in contemplation was
not an agreeable mode of proceeding; but at the same time he argued that
it was the best which, under the circumstances, could be adopted. On
a division the clause was carried by a majority of two hundred and
sixty-seven against two hundred and fifty-seven.

The second reading of the bill was moved in the house of lords on the
1st of July by the Marquis of Normanby, who made some stringent
remarks on the conduct and constitution of the Jamaica assembly. On the
following day, after the order of the day had been read for going into
committee, Lord Lyndhurst moved the expunction of the first clause of
the bill. The opposition charged the government with a desire to subvert
the constitution of Jamaica, and to tyrannize over the colonists. Lord
Brougham made the question an occasion to vent his personal spleen
against the cabinet. The opinions expressed by his lordship were so
utterly at variance with those which he had so often uttered when
eloquently advocating the cause of the negro, as to betray his personal
motives in his opposition to the bill, and to lessen public confidence
in his justice and consistency. Lord Melbourne vehemently disclaimed,
on the part of himself and colleagues, the least desire to abolish the
Jamaican constitution, or to interfere with the rights of the people
either in this country or in any of the colonies. What they had done had
been done with deep regret and reluctance; and it was with the utmost
unwillingness that they made both the previous and present propositions.
On a division, the first clause was expunged by a majority of one
hundred and forty-nine against eighty. Lord Brougham then moved an
amendment to the second clause, limiting the power of the governor with
regard to the renewal of money-bills; but was prevailed upon to postpone
the discussion till Thursday, on which day, the other clauses having
passed, it was agreed that the report should be brought up. When the
order of the day for bringing up the report was read, his lordship
moved as a proviso, "that nothing herein contained shall enable the said
governor, with the assent of the said council, to continue or renew
any acts for the raising or appropriating money." This amendment was
strongly opposed by Lord Melbourne and other members of the cabinet, and
it was negatived without a division. The report was then received, and
on the 5th of July the bill was read a third time and passed. On
the 9th of the same month Lord John Russell recommended the house to
acquiesce in the amendments of the lords, which was agreed to; and thus
the bill finally assumed the very shape which Sir Robert Peel at first
suggested should be adopted.


BILL FOR THE SUPPRESSION OF THE PORTUGUESE SLAVE-TRADE, ETC.

On the 8th of March Sir Robert Inglis took occasion to remind Lord
Palmerston of the address which had been carried on the subject of the
Portuguese slave-trade, and begged to be informed whether the government
had succeeded in obtaining a treaty with Portugal, or were prepared to
resort to the measures promised by the noble lord in the event of the
failure of such negociations. In reply, Lord Palmerston stated, that
after four years spent in negociation, a note, which had just been
received from Lord Howard de Walden, assured him that there was no
longer any hope of procuring the assent of the Portuguese cabinet to
a treaty for the suppression of the traffic. It was, therefore, the
intention of government to introduce a bill which should give to her
majesty's cruisers and commissioners the same right of search with
regard to slave-trading vessels met with below the line, which they
already possessed in the case of those which were found north of the
equator. This bill was introduced on the 10th of July, and it passed
through all its stages in silence until it arrived at the second reading
in the house of lords. On that occasion Lord Minto said, that he deemed
it necessary to state the present condition of the law relating to
the slave-trade, and the existing treaties between Great Britain and
Portugal. The most important of these treaties, his lordship said,
was that of 1815, by which the slave-trade was declared illegal; and
Portugal undertook to bring about its eventual abolition, consenting in
the meantime not to suffer her flag to be employed in that traffic
for any other purpose than to furnish slaves for her own transatlantic
dominions. For this concession England had agreed to pay, and had paid,
£600,000. In 1817, an additional convention was entered into, defining
still more precisely the limits within which the slave-trade to the
Brazils was to be exercised. By this treaty the Portuguese government
undertook, within two months from the date on which it was signed, to
pass a law declaring the commerce in question unlawful, and subjecting
persons implicated therein to punishment. It was further stipulated
that, within a specified period, Portugal should treat with this
country for the final abolition of the slave-trade, and assimilate its
legislation on the subject with that of Great Britain. His lordship
went on to say, that when Portugal ceased to hold the Brazils, the
slave-trade ought to have been abolished, as there were no longer any
transatlantic possessions to which the terms of the treaty would apply.
Yet, notwithstanding these engagements, the traffic had been carried on
almost entirely under the flags of Portugal and Spain. With the latter
country, however, we had concluded an efficient treaty, which gave
us the power of seizing vessels equipped for the slave-trade, without
waiting till they had taken on board their miserable cargo, which gave
rise to hopes that this would have the effect of extinguishing the
trade. It was desirable that we should obtain similar conditions from
Portugal; and he was bound to say that the persons opposed to the
abolition were not the Portuguese people, but certain influential
parties who were interested in the maintenance of the contraband
commerce, and continued to violate the treaty with the sanction of the
Portuguese government. In conclusion, his lordship entreated the house
to pass this bill, which had been introduced in redemption of the pledge
given by government in the last session, and formed an indispensable
preliminary to any undertaking upon a greater: scale. Through the
influence of the Duke of Wellington the bill was rejected by a majority
of thirty-eight against thirty-two.

On the 2nd of August Lord Brougham moved the following resolution on
the same subject:--"That an humble address be presented to her majesty,
praying her majesty, by all the means within her majesty's power, to
negociate with the governments of foreign nations, as well in America as
in Europe, for their concurrence in effectually putting down the traffic
in slaves; and also, that her majesty will be graciously pleased to
give such orders to her majesty's cruisers as may be most efficacious
in stopping the said traffic, more especially that carried on under
the Portuguese and Brazilian flags, or by the Brazilian and Portuguese
ships, assuring her majesty that this house will cheerfully concur with
the other house of parliament in whatever measure might be rendered
necessary, if her majesty shall be graciously pleased to comply with
this prayer." Lord Brougham intimated that he moved this address under
the apprehension that if it went out to Portugal that the bill recently
rejected was done so by the unanimous opinion of the house of lords,
their lordships might be represented as giving a sanction, which none
of them had ever contemplated, to so odious a traffic. The motion for
an address, after some observations from the Duke of Wellington, the
Marquis of Lansdowne, and the Earl of Minto, was agreed to, and ordered
to be communicated to the other house. On the 8th of August the Duke
of Argyle, as lord-high-steward of the household, announced that her
majesty had been waited on with the address, and returned the following
gracious answer:--"I receive this address with great satisfaction. I
will direct orders to be given to my cruisers in accordance with your
wishes, fully relying upon your assurance that you will concur in the
measures which will thus be rendered necessary."

On the same evening, in the house of commons, Viscount Palmerston moved
for leave to introduce another bill in the place of that which had been
rejected. After stating the grounds of objection against the former
bill, the noble lord proceeded to unfold the nature of the clauses in
the new bill. Although, he said, the crown might undoubtedly, by its
prerogatives, take measures which would effectually put down Portuguese
slavers, there were still inconveniences which demanded a remedy. The
officers, his lordship said, acting under its orders, would be exposed
to harassing suits in the courts of law at London; and, although we
might capture ships, and deal with them accordingly, it would not be
proper of this country to dispose of vessels which were the _prima
facie_ property of subjects of other states without having proved
before some court of record the grounds of such proceedings. An act was
therefore required to define what constituted a slave-trader. It was not
considered necessary for the slaves to be on board: a ship equipped in a
certain manner was a proof that she was engaged in the slave-trade; but
the courts of admiralty could not condemn a ship on that ground without
an act of parliament. It was further requisite, to enable the crown, by
the same proceeding, to give to those who capture slave-vessels under
this treaty bounties similar to those secured by conventions with other
powers. These provisions, his lordship thought, would be sufficient to
put down the commerce carried on by the Portuguese flag, and a great
point would thereby be accomplished. After, indeed, that they had
united all the flags in Christendom to put down this horrid traffic,
the slavers might repudiate all flags, and divest themselves of
every document which might enable th captor to identify them with any
particular nation. That would be the last refuge of despairing crime;
and in order to meet those circumstances, he would propose a clause
by which such a ship should be dealt with as though it were an English
trader, unless it appeared, in the course of the trial, that she
belonged to some particular state, in which event the case should not
be adjudicated by the court of admiralty, but dealt with as if at the
outset she had been of the nation to which she was ultimately shown to
belong. His lordship added, that when the nations of Europe were once
united in giving a mutual right of search, or the power of condemning
by a mixed commission, there would no longer remain any defence for
carrying on the slave-trade under any European flag; and he reminded
the house that he had already concluded treaties with Chili, Grenada,
Venezuela, and that intelligence had recently arrived of a treaty made
with Buenos Ayres. After a few words from Dr. Lushington, Sir E. Inglis,
and Captain Pechell, leave was given to bring in the bill, and it was
brought in and read a first time. The next evening it was read a
second time, went through a committee, and passed the commons without a
division.

The second reading of this new bill for the suppression of the
slave-trade was moved by Lord Melbourne on the 15th of August. Previous
to making this motion the noble viscount requested that the address
of the house of lords on the slave-trade, together with her majesty's
gracious answer, should be read; and after explaining the provisions of
the measure, he stated that, in compliance with the prayer contained in
the address, her majesty had given directions to her cruisers to take
the most efficacious measures for putting down the traffic, and
that this bill was necessary in order to fulfil their lordships' own
intentions and wishes, as expressed in their petition to the crown. The
Duke of Wellington still continued his opposition to this measure, and
he moved as an amendment that it should be read that day six months. He
was supported by Lord Ellenborough, who demanded that any orders which
had been issued to her majesty's cruisers should be laid before the
house. The measure, however, was supported by the Bishop of London,
the lord chancellor, the Earl of Minto, and Lords Brougham, Denman, and
Colchester, and the second reading was eventually carried by a majority
of thirty-nine against twenty-eight. On the next evening, when the bill
was in committee, Lord Lyndhurst moved an amendment to the following
clause;--"That in case her majesty should please to issue orders to her
cruisers to capture Portuguese vessels engaged in the slave-trade, or
vessels of any state whatever engaged in the slave-trade, not having
on board, or the masters whereof should neglect to produce, on demand,
papers showing of what state she belongs;" which amendment was to this
effect:--"That in case her majesty should please to issue orders to her
cruisers to capture Portuguese vessels engaged in the slave-trade, or
any other vessels engaged in the slave-trade, and Hot justly entitled to
claim the protection of any flag." This amendment, which was intended to
confine the operation of the bill to Portuguese vessels, and piratical
vessels engaged in the slave-trade, after some remarks from Lord
Brougham in opposition to it, was finally adopted, and on the 19th of
August it was read a third time without discussion. After it had passed,
the Duke of Wellington, who had put in a protest both against the second
and third reading, stated, that he still retained all his objections to
the principles of the bill; it still exhibited its criminal character,
for it was a breach of the law of nations, a violation of international
treaties, and would rather tend to encourage than to prevent the
traffic against which its enactments were directed. On the motion of the
chancellor of the exchequer the amendments were agreed to in the house
of commons, and the measure became law.


MOTION FOR THE BALLOT.

Circumstances had revived the interest attending the question of voting
by ballot, and thus encouraged, on the 18th of June Mr. Grote again
brought the subject forward in the house of commons. The motion was
seconded by Lord Worsley, and supported by Mr. Macauley; but was opposed
by Lord John Russell, who, on this occasion, spoke with unusual energy.
It was further opposed by-Lord Howick, Sirs J. Graham and Robert Peel,
and Messrs. Gaskell and Milnes. On a division it was rejected by a
majority of three hundred and thirty-five against two hundred and
seventeen: one cabinet minister only voted with Mr. Grote; but others,
who were in favour of it, absented themselves on the occasion.


ACT FOR THE BETTER ORDERING OF PRISONS.

During this session an act was passed for the "better ordering of
prisons." By this act it was provided that prisoners might be separately
confined, though that separate confinement should not be deemed solitary
confinement. No cell was to be used for the separate confinement of
any prisoner which was not of such a size, and lighted, warmed, and
ventilated in such a manner as might be required by a due regard to
health, and which did not furnish the means of enabling the prisoner to
communicate at any time with an officer of the prison. Every prisoner so
confined was to have the means of taking air and exercise at such times
as should be deemed necessary by the surgeon, and was to be furnished
with the means of moral and religious instruction, and with suitable
books, as well as with labour or employment. All prisoners were to be
divided into the following classes: namely, debtors in those prisons in
which debtors might be lawfully confined; prisoners committed for trial;
prisoners convicted and sentenced to hard labour; prisoners convicted
and not sentenced to hard labour; and prisoners not included in either
of the foregoing classes.


MOTION FOR A COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE HOUSE TO CONSIDER THE NATIONAL
PETITION.

On the 12th of July Mr. Attwood moved for a committee of the whole
house, to take into consideration a "National Petition," which had been
presented on the 14th of June. In making this motion, Mr. Attwood stated
this petition was signed by 1,200,000 persons of the working classes. In
it the petitioners urged five demands: namely, universal suffrage,
vote by ballot, annual parliaments, remuneration of members for
their attendance in parliament, and the abolition of the property
qualifications. This proposal gave rise to a considerable discussion;
but it was rejected by a majority of two hundred and thirty-five against
one hundred and eighty-nine.


BIRMINGHAM RIOTS, ETC.

The defeat of Mr. Àttwood's motion was contemporaneous with alarming
riots at Birmingham. These riots arose out of the proceedings of the
Chartists. That dangerous body of men had recently resorted to many
methods, in order to impose upon the majority of the people that they
were the strongest party in the country, and that they could carry their
plans into effect without resistance. One mode of proceeding was to go
round from house to house with two books, and to say that those persons
who subscribed should be registered in one book, while those who did not
subscribe were entered in another. Those who put down their names paid
a small contribution, and received in return a ticket, which was to be
their security in a time of danger: non-subscribers were warned that a
time would come when their refusal would be remembered. Another practice
of these rash demagogues was to go in procession to the churches some
time before divine service commenced, and to take possession of the body
of the edifice; some smoking their pipes, and others wearing their hats.
These Chartist combinations were very prevalent throughout the country,
and in the early part of this year, these combinations in the different
cities of the United Kingdom proceeded to the election of deputies,
in order to form a national convention, which was to have moveable
sittings, and to be entrusted with the ultimate direction of their
proceedings. Out of this arrangement arose the "National Petition,"
mentioned in the previous article, and which was presented by Mr.
Attwood on the 14th of June. Having discharged this duty imposed on
them, the deputies proceeded to hold a national convention in the
city of Birmingham. By this step great activity was contributed to the
motions of the Chartists. It was their practice to assemble in great
numbers every evening, on the open place called the Bull-ring. They met
as usual on the 5th of July; but by this time the borough magistrates
had communicated with the home-office, and it was resolved to send down
sixty policemen from the metropolis to disperse them. The railway train
delivered them at Birmingham that evening, and they proceeded to
the scene of confusion, and directed the people to disperse. This
injunction, however, was unheeded, and then the police filed off four
abreast, and made for the monument of Lord Nelson, which stood in the
centre of the Bull-ring, and which was decorated with the flags of the
convention. The flags were captured by them; but the mob, when they
saw them in the hands of the police, recovered them by force, broke
the poles up into short sticks, and after a fierce struggle overpowered
their antagonists: several of the policemen were seriously hurt, and
more than one of them stabbed. At that juncture the 4th dragoons arrived
on the spot; riding by concert up every avenue which led to the place,
the Bullring was completely enclosed. Their appearance was the signal
tor the people to disperse, and the routed mob proceeded, with the
cavalry in close pursuit, down Digbeth and up Broomsgrove-street, to
St. Thomas's church. Hero they tore up the palisades, and made a brief
stand; but the tumult was eventually reduced: by midnight quiet was
restored, and the military, planting a guard in the great square,
returned to their barracks. In this encounter several Chartist leaders
were captured; as Dr. Taylor, the Paisley delegate to the convention,
and Messrs. Lovett and Collins. There was still, however, an
under-current of agitation: in fact, the late event was but the
precursor to a more furious storm. While it was taking place, Mr.
Attwood brought forward his motion for taking the National Petition
into consideration. The rejection of' his motion irritated the already
inflamed minds of the Chartists. It was generally expected that Mr.
Attwood would on the 15th of July address them on his old ground at
Holloway-head. Under this apprehension the spot was occupied during the
day by small groups of artisans, who amounted at half-past six to about
two hundred. Several speakers addressed them; but when it was found
that Mr. Attwood would not come, an orator recommended them to form into
line, and parade through the principal streets. He recommended that they
should walk orderly; but instead of that they proceeded tumultuously to
the Bullring. No police were on the spot; and thus favoured, the mob,
having been reinforced from all quarters, proceeded down Moor-street to
the public office. All the windows of this building were broken by them;
and, under the impression that neither the police nor the military were
able to withstand them, the tumultuous concourse poured back into the
square. Weapons were now sought: broken flagstones, heavy bludgeons, and
scythes were brought into use, while some loosened the pavement for the
purpose of arming empty hands with missiles. The work of demolition
soon commenced: the houses of Mr. Bourne, a grocer, and Mr. Leggett, an
upholsterer, were plundered and set on fire. A simultaneous attack was
next made upon the Nelson hotel; and by casting the lighted brands into
other shops, which had been forcibly driven in, the mob were on the
point of kindling a general conflagration. At this point, however, the
police made their appearance; and at ten o'clock they were followed
by some magistrates and the military. The first onset was followed
by complete discomfiture: before the troops came up the ringleaders
escaped, and by midnight quiet again reigned. The morning, however,
showed a dismal scene of devastation: besides the premises which
were consumed by fire, nearly twenty shops were destroyed; and it was
reckoned that £40,000 would not cover the damages.

In consequence of these lamentable occurrences, and the excited state
of the northern districts of the kingdom, on the 22nd of July, Lord John
Russell announced his intention of taking the requisite precautions for
securing the tranquillity of the country, by placing at the hands of the
magistrates a better organized constitutional force for putting the law
into execution, and providing sufficient military means for supporting
them in the performance of their duty. On the next evening he moved
a resolution to authorize the treasury to advance £10.000 out of the
consolidated fund, for the purpose of establishing an efficient police
force at Birmingham, which was to be repaid out of the rates to be
levied on the said town. In explanation of this resolution, his
lordship stated, that there were difficulties in the way of an immediate
organization of such a force on account of the excited state of
Birmingham, and from the question lately raised in Manchester, with
regard to the corporation, whether the municipal body of Birmingham
had the power to impose a rate for the establishment of a police. Under
these circumstances he proposed that the state should interfere so far
as to advance certain funds, to be repaid by the town. This would not
be a vote of supply, but a vote forming the foundation of a bill which
should provide for the recovery of the money by a rate on the borough,
to be imposed by an act of parliament, and, therefore, irrespective of
the authority of the corporation. This resolution was carried, and a
bill was brought in, which became law. Similar bills, with the exception
of the advance of funds from the treasury, were subsequently applied to
Manchester and Bolton, to remain in force until the power of the civil
functionaries to raise a rate should be determined. A bill was also
passed, with the same intention, to enlarge the powers of the justices
of the peace for appointing county and district constables, and charging
their support upon the districts to which they might be nominated. This
measure, however, was not intended to be imperative; but justices in
quarter-sessions were authorized to report to the secretary of state
the necessity of an additional appointment of constables, wherever the
circumstances of their district should call for such an augmentation, in
a proportion not exceeding one for every one thousand of the population.
At the same time magistrates were to create one or more chief-constables
of the county, with whom should rest the nomination of petty-constables
and a deputy. A further enactment forbade any constable under the
provisions of this hill from voting at an election, or exercising any
other employment. In order further to secure the peace of the country,
Lord John Russell subsequently moved that an addition of five thousand
men should be made to the present military establishment; and after
an amendment by Mr. Hume, which was unsuccessful, the house went into
committee, and a vote of £75,000 was carried for the increase of the
army.


THE BUDGET--PROPOSED REDUCTION OF POSTAGE DUTIES, ETC.

The chancellor of the exchequer brought forward his financial statement
on the 5th of July. From his statement it appeared that the expenditure
had exceeded the estimates; chiefly in consequence of the war in Canada.
The estimates were £46,974,000, and the expenditure £47,760,000, so that
there was a deficiency of £786,636. Mr. Rice, however, stated that he
did not think himself justified in laying a permanent charge on that
account upon the country, and he proposed to meet the deficiency by a
vote of exchequer-bills on a subsequent occasion, in the nature of
a vote of credit. The chancellor of the exchequer next stated the
estimated income and expenditure of the present year; the former being
£48,128,000, and the latter £47,988,000, leaving an excess of £140,000.

In his statements the chancellor of the exchequer took a cheerful view
of the commercial prospects of the country; and he referred to the
increase of exports for the present year over those of 1838 as a symptom
of returning prosperity. So confident was he of a return of prosperity,
that he proposed to reduce the rates of postage. At this time there was
a committee sitting on the post-office acts; and Mr. Rice moved this
resolution:--"That it is expedient to reduce the postage charged on
letters to the uniform rate of one penny, for every letter of a weight
to be hereafter fixed by law; parliamentary privileges of franking being
abolished, and official franking strictly regulated. This house pledges
itself at the same time to make good any deficiency of revenue which
may be occasioned by such an alteration in the rates of the existing
duties." In moving this resolution the chancellor of the exchequer said
that he proposed a penny rate, because he had been convinced by the
arguments and evidence of the committee that the latter expedient would
involve less loss to the revenue than a twopenny postage, which had been
recommended by the committee. After some observations from Mr. Goulburn
and Sir Kobert Peel, both of whom intimated further hostility to such a
change, the resolution was agreed to without a division. On the 12th of
July, when the order of the day was read for receiving the report of
a committee on the postage-acts, Mr. Goulburn rose for the purpose of
proposing a series of resolutions to be substituted for the report.
These resolutions were:--"That with a deficiency of revenue during
the three years ending on the 5th day of April, 1840, of not less than
£8,860,987, it is not expedient to adopt any measure for reducing the
rates of postage on inland letters to an uniform rate of one penny,
thereby incurring the risk of a great present loss to the revenue, at a
period of the session so advanced, that it is scarcely possible to
give to the details of such a measure, and to the important financial
considerations connected with it, that deliberate attention which they
ought to receive from parliament." This amendment was opposed by the
chancellor of the exchequer, and supported by Sir Kobert Peel. After
a few words from Messrs. P. Thomson and Warburton in favour of the
proposition, the original question was carried by a majority of two
hundred and fifteen against one hundred and thirteen. The report was
then brought up and read; and on the question that the resolution
agreed to by the committee be read a second time, Sir R. Peel moved an
amendment to omit such part of the resolution as pledged the house to
supply any deficiency of the revenue occasioned by the reduction. This
amendment, however, was rejected, and the report agreed to; and on the
18th of July Mr. S. Rice brought in a bill, intituled, "An act for
the further regulation of the duties on postage until the 5th day of
October, 1840." This bill was read a second time without a division, and
by the 29th of July it passed the commons.

The second reading was moved by Lord Melbourne in the house of lords on
the 5th of August; on which occasion the Duke of Wellington criticised
the manner and circumstances under which it had been brought forward in
the face of a deficiency of more than one million, which, considering
the state of our affairs both at home and abroad, was likely to be
greatly augmented by the 5th day of October, 1840. At the same time the
noble duke said that he would vote for the bill, and would recommend
their lordships to follow his example. Several other noble lords
addressed the house, chiefly in favour of the measure; and the bill was
then read a second time, and subsequently became law without further
opposition.

In his remarks on the postage-bill the Duke of Wellington recommended
ministers to reduce the amount of the floating debt, under the pressure
of which the market had been labouring, by funding exchequer-bills.
Apparently acting upon this suggestion, on the 12th of August Viscount
Melbourne and the chancellor of the exchequer made public their
determination, subject to the approval of parliament, to effect the
funding of four millions of exchequer-bills in the three per cent,
consolidated annuities. This arrangement was effected on the 17th.


PROROGATION OF PARLIAMENT.

In the house of lords the labours of the session were brought to a
close by a long and animated discussion on a motion made on the 24th of
August, by Lord Lyndhurst, for "a return of all bills that had arrived
from the house of commons since the commencement of the session, with
the dates at which they were brought up." In his speech, the noble
lord directed the attention of the house to the fate of four important
subjects--the Irish municipal corporations, the affairs of Canada,
the recommendations of the ecclesiastical commissioners, and tire
administration of justice; after which he went on to pass under a
searching review, the whole parliamentary conduct of ministers in the
course of the expiring session. Lord Melbourne replied in an effective
speech. Lord Brougham contended that the country would be glad to see
the Conservatives return to office.

Parliament was prorogued by her majesty in person on the 27th of August.
After being addressed by the speaker on the various measures which had
occupied the attention of parliament, and after having given the
royal assent to several bills, her majesty read the speech, which the
lord-chancellor put into her hands, in her usual distinct and impressive
manner. The speech referred to the various topics which had engaged the
attention of parliament, and the differences which had lately sprung up
between the British government and that of Persia.


AFFAIRS IN THE EAST INDIES.

Her majesty, in her speech on the prorogation of parliament, alluded to
an army which the governor-general had led across the Indus. This
"army of the Indus" was put in motion for the western frontier at the
commencement of the present year; and the circumstances which led to so
important a proceeding were briefly these. The kingdom of Affghanistan
has been called the land of transition between eastern and western Asia:
a proverb says, "No one can be king of Hindoostan without first becoming
lord of Cabool." The founder of the Affghan empire was Ahmed Shah, who
died in 1773. Ahmed Shah made several victorious incursions into the
East; and his son, Timour Shah, followed his example. The decease of
Timour Shah, however, delivered over the Affghan empire to the domestic
hostilities of his sons; and the rival tribe of the Barukzyes
took advantage of their dissensions to precipitate them from their
sovereignty. When, indeed, Sir Alexander Burnes visited Affghanistan in
1833, the only portion which remained in the hands of a descendant of
Ahmed Shah was the principality of Herat. The remainder was parcelled
out in the following manner between the usurping family:--Dost Mohammed
Khan ruled in Cabool; Sirdar Sooltan Mohammed Khan ruled Peshawar,
although his two brothers. Peer and Sared Mohammed Khan, shared its
revenues; and Candahar was governed by Kohun Dil Khan, assisted by
Ruhun Dil and Shere Dil, his two brothers. The chief of Cabool owed his
success to Futteh Khan, the chief of the great family of Barukzyes, and
the most powerful of the Affghan nobles. Futteh Khan, in fact, governed
the kingdom under the designation of vizier, while Mahmood abandoned
himself to debauchery. If Mahmood, however, submitted to the ascendancy
of his able minister, not so did his son, the prince Kamrau. By his
orders Futteh Khan was seized at Herat and deprived of his eyesight;
and a few months afterwards the unhappy vizier was literally hacked to
pieces by the courtiers of Mahmood, in the presence of that monarch.
In the days of his power Futteh Khan had distributed the different
governments of his kingdom among his numerous brothers, and this act
drove them into rebellion. Mahmood abandoned his throne without a
struggle, and, although he retained Herat, with the title of king,
became, in effect, a vassal of Persia. The Barukzye brothers were
left to dispose of his dominions at pleasure, and they determined on
recalling Shoojah to the throne, who after many perilous adventures had
fallen into the hands of Runjeet Sing at Lahore. Shoojah escaped from
Lahore; but the Barukzye brothers having taken offence at his arrogant
treatment of one of their friends, transferred their support to his
brother, Gyooh: the trappings of royalty were given to him, while
they retained to themselves the power and revenues of the kingdom. The
dismemberment of the Affghan empire, however, from this time proceeded
more rapidly. Runjeet Sing seized some of its finest provinces,
including Cashmere; Shere Dil Khan established himself at Candahar as an
independent prince; Dost Mohammed made himself master of Cabool; Sirdar
Sooltan Mohammed Khan became tributary governor of Peshawar; Balkh w-as
annexed to the kingdom of Bokhara; and the Ameers of Scinde declared
themselves independent. Gyooh fled to Lahore; and the only province of
the kingdom which remained in the hands of a descendant of the royal
family was Herat. The prince who governed Herat was Kamrau, who had
directed that the eyes of his lather's vizier, Futteh Khan, should
be put out. Without directly acknowledging the sovereignty of Persia,
Prince Kamrau had been for some years in the practice of rendering an
occasional tribute to the shah, as often as the governor of the Persian
province of Khorassan was strong enough to extort it from him. At
this time, however, the prince of Herat refused to perform any such
engagement; and he even permitted his vizier to pass through Siestan
into Khorassan, where he compelled the chiefs of Khiva and Khafin to
pay tribute to his master, and carried away twelve thousand persons, and
sold them as slaves. This conduct of Kamrau furnished Mohammed Shah, the
Persian monarch--who had recently ascended the throne by tire
assistance of British officers, and supplies of money from the English
treasury--with a pretext for endeavouring to make himself master of
Herat. There was an existing treaty between England and Persia, which
stipulated "that if war should ensue between the Persian and Affghan
governments, the English government should take no part in it; nor
should give assistance to either party, except as a mediator, at the
solicitation of both parties, for the purpose of producing peace." Had
the Persian monarch limited his views to an attack upon Herat, this
treaty would have been binding on the English nation; but it soon became
evident that he extended them to Ghizni and Candahar. Mr. Ellis, who had
been sent to Persia as British envoy in the year 1835, thus wrote at the
commencement of the following year:--"The intention cannot be mistaken:
Herat once annexed to Persia, may become the residence of a Russian
consular agent, who would from thence push his researches and his
communications, avowed and secret, throughout Affghanistan. Indeed, in
the present state of the relations between Persia and Russia, it cannot
be denied that the progress of the former in Affghanistan is tantamount
to the advance of the latter, and ought to receive every opposition
from the British government that the public faith will permit." Russian
influence, was, in fact, predominant in the councils of Mohammed Shah,
and the power of Russia appeared to stand higher in the general opinion
than that of Great Britain. Moreover, the Russian ambassador was urgent
upon the shah to complete his designs against Herat, and he even offered
his military services in the expedition. Under these circumstances Mr.
Ellis signified to the Persian ministers the extreme displeasure with
which the English would look upon the prosecution of any extended
schemes of conquest in Affghanistan: without disputing their right to
obtain redress from the prince of Herat, he intimated that the British
government would be better pleased if that purpose could be effected
by negotiation; and offered to send a British officer to Herat for the
purpose of facilitating the adjustment of the existing differences.
To this proposal the Persian ministers at first assented, but they
afterwards rejected it altogether. In the meantime Uzeez Khan arrived
on a mission from Kohun Dil Khan and his brothers at Candahar, with the
object of effecting an alliance offensive and defensive, with the shah,
and uniting in the attack upon Kamrau. Towards the close of 1835, Dost
Mohammed Khan, the chief of Cabool, also dispatched an agent to the
court of Persia with letters, in which he offered to cooperate in an
attack upon Herat, and sought in general the protection of the shall
against the Sikhs. The real objects of the chiefs of Candahar was also
to obtain protection from the same enemies; and neither they nor the
chief of Cabool had any disposition to become feudatories of Persia.
Thus supported, the shah set forth on his expedition; but owing to the
appearance of the cholera by the 3rd of November, 1836, he had only
reached Asterabad. His army was in fact reduced to such a deplorable
condition, from the scarcity of provisions and the predatory incursions
of the Turcomans, that all hopes of undertaking a winter campaign
against Herat were given up, and, despite the remonstrances of the
Russian plenipotentiary, the shah led back his forces into Persia. In
the meantime Mr. M'Neill had succeeded Mr. Ellis, and he did not fail to
make known the advice which had been tendered by the Russian ambassador
in the late expedition; and Lord Palmerston directed the Earl of Durham,
our envoy at Russia, to inquire of Count Nesselrode whether the Russian
envoy was acting in accordance with the instructions of his government.
It was stated in reply that if Count Simonich had acted in the manner
mentioned, it was done in direct opposition to his instructions: he had
been ordered to dissuade the shah from prosecuting the war at any time
and in any circumstances. It was added, that our minister in Persia must
have been misinformed; but in a subsequent despatch, Mr. M'Neill stated
that tire information he had given had been confirmed by the concurrent
testimony of all the Persians with whom he had conversed on the subject,
including the prime-minister. The allegations against Count Simonich
were, in fact, indisputable; and the prospect of a combination of
Russian and Persian influence could not fail to alarm the government of
India; and as the shah's designs against Herat were not given up, Mr.
M'Neill was instructed to inform him that any attempt to prosecute
schemes of aggrandizement in Affghanistan would diminish the cordiality
existing between England and Persia. Mohammed Shah, however, was so far
from giving up his designs upon Herat, that he sought to obtain a more
intimate alliance with Russia; and he was so far successful, that an
envoy was dispatched by him with presents from himself and the Russian
envoy resident at his court, to Candahar and Cabool. His preparations
for war were still continued; and in the midst of them a messenger
arrived from Herat to negotiate an arrangement. Mr. M'Neil was invited
to take part in the conference. The terms brought by the envoy from
Herat were so advantageous that the British envoy recommended the
Persian government to accept them, lest the British government should
suspect that Persia, in persisting to prosecute the war, had other
objects in view than those avowed. The conditions, however, were
rejected, and it was evident that the shah would only be satisfied with
the sovereignty of Herat. His troops were again put in motion on the
23rd of July; but in consequence of obstructions, on the 14th of October
they had advanced no further than Nishapoor, about half the distance
from Teheran to Herat. About this time an emissary from Russia appeared
in the Persian camp, from whence he proceeded to Candahar and Cabool;
everywhere giving out that he was sent to intimate the arrival of a
large Russian army to co-operate with the army against Herat. Dost
Mohammed, the chief of Cabool, had sent agents to St. Petersburg, as
well as Teheran, to procure assistance against the Sikhs; and shortly
after, he applied with the same intention to Lord Auckland, who had just
arrived in India as governor-general. Lord Auckland decided on sending
Captain Burnes on a commercial mission to Cabool; and that officer
reached the capital of Dost Mohammed about the time that the Persian
and Russian agents arrived in Candahar and Cabool. Negotiations were
commenced between these various agents and the chief of Cabool; and
they were not concluded when the Persian army arrived before Herat. The
shah had previously captured the border fortress of Ghorian; but he was
destined to meet with a different reception before the city of Kamrau
Shah: week after week elapsed, and not the slightest impression was made
upon its walls. While the siege was proceeding, Lord Auckland directed
Mr. M'Neill to proceed to the camp, and make one more endeavour to
effect a pacific adjustment, and to obtain redress. He had so far
succeeded as to bring the mind of the shah to be favourable to a
treaty; but all his efforts were again set aside by the arrival of Count
Simonich, the Russian envoy, in the Persian camp. The siege, therefore,
continued, nor could subsequent efforts made by Mr. M'Neill set it
aside. His failure was made known to the British government; and on
the 21st of May he received a despatch from Lord Palmerston, which
authorized him to inform the shah that his designs were in complete
contravention of the spirit of the alliance subsisting between the two
nations; and that he must expect the cessation of intercourse in the
event of such hostile proceedings being persevered in. In consequence
of this direction Mr. M'Neill wrote the following letter to the Shah of
Persia:--"I am directed to inform your majesty that if Herat should have
surrendered to your majesty, the British government will consider your
continuing to occupy that or any other portion of Affghanistan as an
hostile demonstration against England. Your majesty is no doubt informed
by your government of Fars, that a body of British troops, and a naval
armament, consisting of five ships of war, have already arrived in the
Persian Gulf, and that for the present the troops have been landed in
the Island of Karrak. The measures your majesty may adopt in consequence
of this representation, will decide the future movements and proceedings
of that armament; but your majesty must perceive, from the view which
her majesty's government has taken of the present state of affairs,
and from the effect which must have been produced upon the minds of her
majesty's ministers and the British authorities in India, and by the
subsequent proceedings of the Persian government, with which they were
not then acquainted, that nothing but the immediate adoption of measures
complying with the demands of the British government, can induce the
authorities acting under the orders of that government to suspend the
measures that are now in progress for the defence of British interests,
and the vindication of British honour." Before this declaration had come
to the hands of the Shah, the Persian army, after six days of incessant
battering, had made a general assault upon Herat; but although the
troops went forward courageously, and had even planted their standards
three several times upon the breach, they were finally defeated in
their attempt: the Affghans attacked them sword in hand, with energy too
resolute to be resisted, and drove them with great slaughter across the
ditch: nearly two thousand Persians were slain. This failure, however,
had not the immediate effect of forcing the Shah to raise the siege.

In the meantime Captain Burnes had failed in his mission to Cabool, and
Lieutenant Leach, who had been sent to Candahar, had met with the same
ill-success. A treaty had been concluded between Persia and the latter
state, under the warrant of the Russian minister; and a treaty of nearly
similar import was in progress at Cabool. Under these circumstances
preparations were set on foot for marching an army into Affghanistan.
The moment was very critical: there was a prospect of Persian dominion
and Russian supremacy in all the Affghan states. By Russian subsidies,
Kohun Dil Khan, chief of Candahar, besieged Furrah, a dependency of
Herat; and Dost Mohammed Khan, chief of Cabool, commenced a system of
hostile intrigues even in India. The Ameers of Scinde were called upon
to join the league against the English even by the Shah himself; and his
efforts were seconded by the Russian emissary, who had so successfully
fulfilled his mission at Candahar and Cabool. But notwithstanding all
these efforts, the failure of the recent assault of Herat, together with
the debarcation of troops at Karrak, and the military preparations which
were being made in the north of British India, finally led the Shah to
comply with all the demands of the British ambassador, and to abandon
his enterprise: the camp broke up on the 9th of September, 1838, and
returned to Teheran. Later in the year Count Nesselrode disclaimed
on the part of the Emperor of Russia all intentions of disturbing the
tranquillity of the British possessions in India; and by the month of
February, after considerable negociation, harmony was restored between
the Russian and the British governments. The operations of the British
army in India were not, however, wholly set aside by these events. At
the time of the raising of the siege of Herat, and the retreat of the
Shah of Persia, "the army of the Indus" was encamped at Simla, and was
about to be put in motion for Feroze-pore, on the Sutledge. At Simla,
Sir Harvey Faroe, who commanded the troops, under the direction of the
governor-general, published a manifesto, which set forth the causes for
the assembling of the army, and the objects which the British government
had in view. As regarded the objects in view, the governor-general
said, in the manifesto, that he felt the importance of taking steps
for arresting the rapid progress of foreign aggressions towards our own
territories, and that his attention was naturally drawn to the position
and claims of Shah Soojah, who had, when in power, cordially acceded
to measures of united resistance against internal enmity; and as the
Barukzye chiefs were unfitted, under any circumstances, to be useful
allies to Great Britain, or aid us in our measures of national defence,
the governor-general felt warranted in espousing the cause of Shah
Soojah, whose popularity had been proved by the best authorities. A
tripartite treaty had, therefore, been concluded between the British
government, Runjeet Sing, and Shah Soojah, whereby the maharaja of the
Sikhs was guaranteed in his present possessions, and bound to cooperate
in the restoration of the Shah. The manifesto further set forth that a
guaranteed independence would be tendered to the Àmeers of Scinde; that
Herat would be left in the possession of its present ruler; and that
Shah Soojah should enter Affghanistan surrounded with his own troops,
and supported against opposition, foreign or domestic, by a British
army. As soon as these objects were effected, the British army was to
be withdrawn from the Affghan territory; but British influence was to
be used to further every measure of general benefit, and heal the
distractions which had so long afflicted the Affghan people: even those
chiefs whose hostile proceedings had been the cause of the measure,
would receive a liberal and honourable treatment. The grand objects,
therefore, for which the British troops were assembled at Simla, on tire
Jumna, were to dethrone the hostile chiefs of Candahar and Cabool, and
to re-establish the Shah Soojah in his dominions. On hearing of the
raising of the siege of Herat, the intentions of the Indian government
were in some degree modified. It was determined not to send forward the
whole force, a part only being thought sufficient to effect the objects
in view. The army of the Indus was in fact reduced to a _corps d'armée_,
and it was to be commanded by Sir John Keene, the commander-in-chief at
Bombay. The army was divided, and proceeded by two different routes; the
Bombay division being destined to bring Scinde to submission. The first
step of this division was to march upon Hyderabad, which was captured
without any effectual resistance. The seizure of the capital was
followed by the occupation of Kouratchee, the richest city in Scinde. By
these means the Ameers were brought to contract a fresh treaty with the
Indian government; agreeing to make an immediate payment of £300,000; to
abolish the tolls on the Indus; to maintain an auxiliary corps of four
or five thousand men under the command of British officers; and to pay
a tribute amounting to nearly one-half of their revenue. Each Ameer,
moreover, was for the future to look upon the English government as
his suzerain, and procure his separate recognition at its hands. In the
meantime the Bengal division was descending the bank of the Sutledge to
unite with the Bombay army at Shikarpore, on the confines of Scinde
and Affghanistan. The whole army assembled at Shikarpore, with the
contingent of Shah Soojah, towards the beginning of March. The fatigues
of the march, together with the assaults of the Beloches, had already
made fearful havoc with the ranks of the expedition; and as they
proceeded their sufferings increased. In the midst of trials and
difficulties, however, they pressed forward., and towards the middle
of April, they assembled beyond the reach of danger, in the valley of
Pisheen. How dreadfully they suffered in their route may be inferred
from the fact, that of 6,000 men which comprised the contingent of Shah
Soojah, only 1,500 escaped. Their greatest dangers were encountered
in the defiles of Bolau, where they not only had to contend with the
natural difficulties of the pass, but with the elements and fierce wild
robbers, who hovered upon their flank day and night. In the valley
of Pisheen, however, the survivors recruited their strength, and then
proceeded to action. Candah offered them no resistance; Kohun Dil Khan
quitted the capital and took refuge with his brother, Dost Mohammed., at
Cabool. The Bengal division entered the city of Candahar on the 24th of
April, and the Shah Soojah was solemnly crowned on the 8th of May. The
troops spent several weeks at Candahar, but on the 27th of June they
marched forward to Ghisneh. Operations, however, did not recommence till
the 21st of July. Ghisneh was captured, after a fierce struggle, on the
22nd, and the son of Dost Mohammed taken prisoner. The capture of
this strong fortress made a great impression upon the Affghans. It was
expected that the fortress would have kept the English in check for some
time; and under this impression Dost Mohammed was proceeding towards the
capital with his cavalry and a park of artillery. On hearing of the fall
of Gisneh, however, his army broke up, and Sir J. Keene then resumed his
march along the rich valley from Ghisneh to Cabool. Shah Soojah entered
Cabool on the 7th of August; and his rival, Dost Mohammed, being
abandoned by all but the members of his own Barukzye tribe, fled beyond
the mountains of the Hazareh into Bokhara. In order to complete the
conquest Major Outram was sent into certain disturbed districts between
Cabool and Can-dahar to tranquillize the disaffected Ghilzee tribes,
who had not yet acknowledged Shah Soojah, and replace the refractory
chieftains with newly-appointed governors. Khelat was also reinvested:
that fortress was captured by General Willshire, and the khan, Mehrat,
with many of his chiefs, fell fighting, sword in hand. Having achieved
these conquests, Sir J. Keene, leaving a detachment for the protection
of Shah Soojah, returned home with the main body. Mr. M'Naughten
remained as resident at the court of Cabool. Such was the issue of the
campaign in Afghanistan. Subsequently her majesty rewarded the services
of the more eminent actors in the war. The governor-general was created
Earl of Auckland, Sir John Keene was created Baron Keene of Ghuznee
in Affghanistan; and baronetcies were conferred on Mr. M'Naughten and
Colonel Pottinger.


STATE OF THE CONTINENT.

This year witnessed the virtual conclusion of the war in Spain. The
principal event which contributed to this consummation was the rupture
between the chief Maroto and Don Carlos. Maroto, indeed, with the
battalions of Castile, made their submission, and his defection was
followed by twenty-one more Carlist battalions. The terms of this
pacification were effected by Espartero; and having concluded them, he
led his army towards Don Carlos at Lecumberri. Not daring to await his
arrival, Don Carlos withdrew into the defiles of the Bastan; and from
the Bastan he fell back to Elisonda; and, finally, on the 14th of
September, with six Alavese and two Navarrese battalions, he took refuge
in France. The French government assigned to him the city of Bourges for
his temporary residence, and he was escorted thither by Marshal Soult.
The Carlist chief, Cabrera, continued for some months to maintain
his ground in the central provinces; but the struggle finally became
hopeless, and at the commencement of the succeeding year, he, with
20,000 men, followed the example of his master, and took refuge in
France. In Portugal the arrival of the bill which had been passed for
the suppression of the slave-trade, gave rise to much dissatisfaction.
The author of the measure, Lord Palmerston, was loudly charged with
hostility to Portugal, and a great estrangement prevailed for some time
between the two governments. The breach was widened by the demand made
by the British upon the Portuguese government for the payment of the
long pending civil and military claims due to the subjects of Great
Britain. The requisition was, it is said, accompanied by a menace, that,
in the event of a non-compliance, the British government would resort to
coercive measures. During this year the territorial differences between
Belgium and Holland were settled. The terms which the five powers
resolved should be agreed upon between the two parties have been seen in
a previous article; and it may be sufficient to state that Belgium, at
least accepted them with great reluctance. In Turkey events occurred
which attracted the notice of European powers. In 1838 the pacha of
Egypt had refused to pay any further tribute to the Porte; and this
announcement, together with the usurpation on the part of Meliemet
Ali of attributes peculiar to the commander of the faithful alone,
determined the sultan to make another effort for the reduction of his
vassal. He assembled a large army on the eastern bank of the Euphrates,
which menaced the Syrian dominions of the pacha; while Ibrahim, on
the other hand, proceeded to concentrate his forces around Aleppo.
The governments of France and England were apprehensive lest the
discomfiture of the Turkish army should be followed by the arrival of a
Russian force in the Bosphorus, in accordance with the stipulations of
the treaty signed on an analogous juncture at Unkiar Skelessi. Under
this apprehension the representatives of their respective courts at
Constantinople and Alexandria were directed to make every effort to
prevent war. Large concessions were made by Ibrahim through their
mediation; but the interpreters of the law at Constantinople assured
the sultan that it was the duty of every true believer to take up
arms against an impious usurper, and a solemn declaration of war was
accordingly read in all the mosques. In the month of June a great battle
took place between the contending armies near Nezib, in which the Turks,
under Hafiz Pacha, were utterly discomfited; six thousand of them were
left dead on the field, and ten thousand were left in the hands of
Ibrahim Pacha, together with fifteen thousand muskets, and more than
one hundred pieces of artillery. The sultan did not live to hear of
this disaster; he died on the 1st of July, and Abdul Mcdjio, a youth of
seventeen, assumed the reins of empire. The death of Sultan Mahmoud the
Second gave rise to negociation. The first act of the new sultan was to
forward to the viceroy of Egypt an offer of pardon, together with the
hereditary possession of the province of Egypt, on the condition that he
conformed to his duties of obedience and submission. Mehemet Ali appears
to have been willing to submit to these terms; but about the same time
that he received them, Achmet, the capitan pacha, had revolted from
the sultan, and had arrived at Alexandria. The Ottoman monarchy was
tottering to its fall; but at this critical juncture England, France,
Russia, Austria, and Prussia resolved to uphold the independence of
Turkey, as an essential element of the balance of power. The year,
however, closed before the negociations commenced were perfected.


CHAPTER LI.

{VICTORIA. 1840--1841}

     Meeting of Parliament:   Announcement of the Queen's
     Marriage..... Bill for the Naturalization of Prince
     Albert..... The Civil List..... Question of Privilege:
     Hansard and Stockdale..... Affairs of China..... Irish
     Municipal Corporations   Bill,  &c...... Financial
     Statement..... The   Union   of   the Canadas.....
     Ecclesiastical Duties and Revenues Bill..... The Regency
     Bill..... Prorogation of Parliament..... Affairs  of British
     India..... The Marriage of the Queen..... State of the
     Continent.


MEETING OF PARLIAMENT.--ANNOUNCEMENT OF THE QUEEN'S MARRIAGE.

{A.D. 1840}

Parliament was opened on the 16th of January by her majesty in person.
The opening of her majesty's speech was one of great interest. It read
thus:--"My lords and gentlemen--Since you have last assembled, I have
declared my intention of allying myself in marriage with the Prince of
Saxe Cobourg and Gotha. I humbly implore that the divine blessing
may prosper this union, rendering it conducive to the interests of my
people, as well as my own domestic happiness; and it will be to me a
source of the most lively satisfaction, to find the resolution I have
taken approved of by parliament. The constant proofs I have received
of your attachment to my person and family, persuade me that you will
enable me to provide for such an establishment as may appear suitable to
the rank of the prince, and the dignity of the crown." In continuance,
her majesty congratulated parliament on the termination of civil war in
Spain; expressed a hope that the five powers would be able to preserve
the integrity of the Ottoman empire, and the peace of Europe; and
referred to the success of the European and native troops in India with
great satisfaction. Her majesty also declared her confident hope of
adjusting our difference with the court of Persia; and intimated that
serious attention had been given to her commercial relations with China.
In conclusion, her majesty recommended to the early consideration of
parliament two important measures relating to our home policy: namely,
the state of the municipal corporations in Ireland, and the measures
suggested by the ecclesiastical commissioners with respect to the church
establishment in this country. In the lords the address was moved by the
Duke of Somerset, and seconded by Lord Seaford. The Duke of Wellington
fully concurred in the expression of congratulation to her majesty upon
the alliance which had been announced to the country. But, his grace
continued, every precedent of the reign of George III. had been followed
in this matter except one, and that was the declaration that this prince
was a Protestant. He knew the prince was a Protestant; but as this was a
Protestant state, the fact that the prince was a Protestant should have
been officially declared. The house of lords could not omit this; and
therefore he moved the insertion of the word Protestant before the word
prince, in the first paragraph of the address. Lord Melbourne said that
he considered the amendment superfluous. The act of settlement required
that the prince should be a Protestant, and it was not likely that
ministers would advise her majesty to break through the act of
settlement. All the world knew that Prince Albert of Saxe Cobourg was
a Protestant, and that he was descended from the most emphatically
Protestant house in Europe. Lord Winchilsea did not regard the insertion
of the word Protestant as unnecessary. Near and dear relations of the
prince had become Roman Catholics, and the husband of the Queen of
Portugal, a first cousin of this very prince, was an avowed Romanist. In
the close of his observations, Lord Winchilsea adverted to the alarming
state of the country, and censured Lord Melbourne for having recently
presented Mr. Owen to the queen--a man who was the notorious advocate
of doctrines which struck at the root of all religion and morality.
The amendment was agreed to, and the address, as amended, ordered to be
presented to her majesty.

In the commons the address was agreed to; and her majesty subsequently
replied to the addresses of both houses, expressing satisfaction
at their loyalty and affection; thanking them for their support and
concurrence in her intended marriage; and assuring them that it would
be her endeavour to make her reign conducive to the happiness of all
classes of the community.


BILL FOR THE NATURALIZATION OF PRINCE ALBERT.

On the 20th of January, in the house of lords, a bill for naturalizing
his serene highness Prince Albert of Saxe Cobourg and Gotha was passed
through all its stages. On the second reading, the Duke of Wellington
objected that it was not only an act for the naturalization of Prince
Albert, but contained also a clause entitling the prince, "for and
during the term of his natural life, to take precedence in rank after
her majesty, in parliament and elsewhere, as her majesty may think
fit and proper; any law, statute, or custom to the contrary
notwithstanding." Under these circumstances, his grace moved that the
debate be adjourned, as the house had not sufficient notice of the
contents of the bill, and as the title of it did not state anything
respecting the precedence of the prince. Lord Melbourne replied,
that the omission was purely accidental, and, in his opinion, of no
importance. At the same time his lordship admitted that this bill
differed in form from any other bills, inasmuch as it gave her majesty
an ability to bestow on Prince Albert a higher station than that
assigned to Prince George of Denmark, or Prince Leopold. But the reason
for the difference, he contended, was to be looked for in the relative
situation of the parties. The arrangements with regard to the marriage
of the Princess Charlotte were temporary; in this act it was intended
to raise the prince to a station next to that of the queen; and
no opposition had been offered to this course by those peculiarly
interested in point of rank. After a few observations from Lords
Brougham and Londonderry, the debate was adjourned till the following
week, when the lord-chancellor stated that he should propose that power
be given to the crown to allow the prince to take precedence next after
any heir-apparent to the throne.

Subsequently, however, Lord Melbourne, in moving the committal of the
bill, expressed himself so anxious that it should pass with all
possible expedition, that he had determined to leave out all relating to
precedence, and reduce it to a naturalization bill, as expressed in the
title. In that shape the bill passed without further opposition. In the
commons the bill was passed without discussion.


THE CIVIL-LIST.

On the 24th of June, after moving that the paragraph in the queen's
speech relative to Prince Albert's annuity be read, Lord John Russell
went into a long detail of precedents of grants to princes and
princesses allied to the royal family of England; and concluded by
moving "that her majesty be enabled to grant an annual sum of £50,000
out of the consolidated fund, for a provision to Prince Albert, to
commence on the day of his marriage with her majesty, and to continue
during his life." The debate was adjourned for a few days, and on
its resumption Mr. Hume moved as an amendment, that £21,000 be voted
annually to Prince Albert, instead of £50,000. In his opinion, indeed,
no grant should be made during her majesty's lifetime. The chancellor
of the exchequer replied to Mr. Hume, and several members spoke
in opposition to the grant; after which the house divided, on the
amendment, which was lost by a majority of three hundred and five
against thirty-eight. Ministers, however, were doomed to be defeated on
this question. Colonel Sibthorp had given notice that he would move an
amendment that £30,000 should be the extent of the annuity; and on
the defeat of Mr. Hume's motion, the gallant colonel rose to move this
amendment. On a division it was carried by a large majority, the numbers
being two hundred and sixty-two against one hundred and fifty-eight.
This was a great triumph over the ministers, and Colonel Sibthorp was
so elated by it, that he endeavoured to follow it up a week or two
afterwards by moving for the insertion of a clause in the bill for
Prince Albert's provision, to the effect that the annuity of £30,000
should cease altogether in case his serene highness should reside for a
less period than six months consecutively in each year within the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, or should ally himself in marriage
with any foreign princess who should not be a Protestant, or should
cease to profess and adhere to the Protestant religion as by law
established in these realms. Both Sir Robert Peel and Lord John Russell
contended that such restrictions were inexpedient and inconsistent, and
the gallant colonel, finding that there was no chance of success, did
not press his motion to a division.


QUESTION OF PRIVILEGE--HANSARD AND STOCKDALE.

In the year 1835, a bill was proposed in the house of lords, by the Duke
of Richmond, for the purpose of appointing inspectors of prisons. In the
report of these inspectors, which was printed by Messrs. Hansard, it was
stated, that amongst other books in use by the prisoners, one published
by John Joseph Stockdale, in 1827, was of the most disgusting nature,
the plates being obscene and indecent in the extreme. In 1836, Stockdale
brought an action against Messrs. Hansard for the sale of this report,
on the ground that the allegation therein contained about the work was
a libel. The defendants pleaded two picas: first, "Not guilty;" and,
secondly, "That the words complained of in the declaration were true."
The jury gave a verdict for the defendants on the second plea; and in
his charge to the jury, Lord Denman said that the fact of the house
of commons having directed Messrs. Hansard to publish all their
parliamentary reports, is no justification for them, or for any
bookseller, who publishes a parliamentary report containing a libel
against any man. On the 6th of February, 1837, Messrs. Hansard
communicated to the house of commons that legal proceedings had been
instituted against them by Stockdale, for the publication of the report,
in which he conceived himself to have been libelled. A select committee
was then appointed by the house to examine precedents, and report upon
the question of its privileges in regard to the publication of reports
and other matters. This committee decided in favour of the privilege,
which would protect any publication ordered by the house from being made
the subject of an action for libel; and the house of commons, on the
30th of May, 1837, passed the following resolutions:--"First, that the
power of publishing such of its reports, votes, and proceedings as
it shall deem necessary, or conducive to the public interest, is an
essential incident to the constitutional freedom of parliament, more
especially of this house, as the representative portion of it.--Second,
that by the law and privileges of parliament, this house has the sole
and exclusive jurisdiction to determine upon the existence and extent of
its privileges; and that the institution or prosecution of any action,
suit, or other proceedings, for the purpose of bringing them into
discussion or decision before any court or tribunal elsewhere than a
parliament, is a high breach of such privilege, and renders all
parties concerned therein amenable to its just displeasure, and to
the punishment consequent thereon." The action, however, went on;
and Messrs. Hansard pleaded to the declaration to the effect that the
publication in question was a privileged one, on the ground that it was
issued by the authority of the house of commons. This plea was demurred
to as insufficient in point of law; and judgment was given by the court
against the defendants, and damages afterwards assessed, which were paid
over to the plaintiff. On the 31st of July, 1839, Messrs. Hansard
again informed the house that similar legal proceedings were threatened
against them on behalf of a Mr. Polack on account of some alleged
defamatory matter contained in a report of the state of New Zealand,
which had been published by order of the house of commons. In this case
they were directed by the house not to take any step towards defending
the action with which they were threatened; but subsequently Mr. Polack
communicated to the house that proceedings had been commenced without
his sanction, and that he had no intention of taking any legal steps
in the matter. The matter seemed thus set at rest; but on the 26th of
August, Stockdale commenced a third action against Messrs. Hansard, for
again publishing the same libel; the sale of each copy of the report
containing the alleged libel being, in contemplation of law, a fresh
publication of it. This was also communicated to the house of commons;
and Messrs. Hansard were again directed that the action should not
be defended. In consequence of this direction Messrs. Hansard served
Stockdale with formal notice of the resolutions of the house of commons;
but notwithstanding this, on the 26th of October, Stockdale filed
a declaration in the said action, wherein the damages were laid at
£50,000. On the 1st of November intercalatory judgment was signed for
want of a plea; and then Messrs. Hansard again caused notices against
proceeding with the said action, together with fresh copies of the
resolutions, to be served upon Stockdale. The action, however, went on;
notice was given that a writ of inquiry of damages would be executed
before the sheriff of Middlesex on the 12th of November. This writ was
executed, when the sheriffs' jury assessed the damages at £600. Stockdale
then applied to the court of Queen's Bench for a rule to compel the
sheriff to return the writ of inquiry. This was ordered; and on the
23rd of November a writ of _fieri facias_ was issued and lodged with the
sheriff, who thereupon took possession of the printing-office, premises,
and stock in trade of Messrs. Hansard. On the 16th of December, Mr.
Winsland, a builder, purchased of the sheriff goods belonging to Messrs.
Hansard to the amount of £695. The sheriff, however, had not paid this
money into the hands of Stockdale, when, on the 16th of January, the
case of Messrs. Hansard was brought before the commons by Lord John
Russell, who presented a petition from them, which prayed for such
relief, under the circumstances, as the house should deem proper. His
lordship said that it was incumbent upon the house to come to a decision
upon the question. There was, he continued, many ways in which they
might dispose of it. They might act upon their ancient and undoubted
right, and vindicate the violation of their privilege by the ancient
mode of commitment. That was the most constitutional course, and the one
most consistent with the dignity and privileges of the house. Again, the
house could, if it thought fit, direct that Messrs. Hansard should
plead in all cases of future action, and thereby bring the question of
privilege before the courts. They could abandon all their privileges,
confining all their papers to a circulation among the members only;
or they might proceed, if they thought it necessary to have the papers
circulated for general use, to provide for the settlement of the
question by a bill brought in for that purpose. But their present
position was one which ought not to continue; and he should move
that, John Joseph Stockdale, the plaintiff, Thomas Barton Howard,
his attorney, William Evans, the sheriff, Mr. Burchell, the deputy
under-sheriff, and the bailiff who acted in this case, be called to
the bar of the house, and then it would be in the power of the house to
adopt that course which, under all circumstances of the case, it might
think proper to pursue. After a long discussion, in which Sir. E.
Sugden, the attorney-general, and other members took part, this motion
was agreed to by a majority of two hundred and eighty-six against one
hundred and sixty-seven. On the following clay, January 17th, the
order of the clay for taking into consideration the petition of Messrs.
Hansard was read, and Lord John Russell moved that John Joseph Stockdale
be called to the bar. He was accordingly called in, and placed at the
bar, when the attorney-general interrogated him concerning the facts of
the different actions against Messrs. Hansard in which he was plaintiff.
After examining him, he was ordered to withdraw; when Lord John Russell
moved that John Joseph Stockdale, having brought an action against
Messrs. Hansard for the publication of a report ordered by this house
to be printed, has been guilty of a high contempt and breach of the
privileges of the house. Mr. Law proposed as an amendment that Mr.
Stockdale be discharged from his attendance at the bar; but, after an
animated discussion, the original question was carried by a majority of
two hunded and forty-nine against one hundred. Lord John Russell then
moved, that John Joseph Stockdale, for the said breach of privilege, be
committed to the custody of the sergeant-at-arms, and that the speaker
do issue his warrant for the committal. After a brief discussion, this
was carried by a large majority; and on the next day the sheriffs and
bailiffs were called in, and, after examination, ordered to attend
on the following Monday. On that clay, the 20th of January, Lord John
Russell said that it became him now to state the precise course which
should be taken in the present stage of the proceedings; and, after
going at length into the whole question of privilege, he moved, "that
it appeared to the house that an execution in the cause of Stockdale
v. Hansard had been levied to the amount of £640, by the sale of the
property of Messrs. Hansard, in contempt of the privileges of that
house; and that such money then remained in the hands of the sheriff
for Middlesex." If that resolution should be carried, he should move
further, "that the said sheriff be ordered to refund the said amount
forthwith to Messrs. Hansard." Mr. F. Kelly opposed this motion, and
moved, by way of amendment, the following resolutions:--"That, it
appearing to this house that an action has been brought against James
Hansard and others, for the publication by them, under an order of this
house, of certain papers containing libellous matter upon John Joseph
Stockdale, and that judgment has been obtained, and execution issued
by due course of law against the said James Hansard and others in
such action: it is expedient that the said James Hansard and others be
indemnified against all costs and damages by them sustained in respect
of such action." This amendment was supported by Sir Edward Sugden, and
opposed by Sir Robert Peel and the attorney-general; and, on a division,
the original motion was carried by a majority of two hundred and five
against ninety. Subsequently the sheriffs were called in, and committed
to the custody of the serjeant-at-arms; and Mr. Howard, the attorney
of Stock-dale, reprimanded by the speaker at the bar, when he was
discharged. The matter, however, was not yet at rest.

On the 27th of January Lord John Russell gave notice that he had
received a petition from Messrs. Hansard, stating that a fresh action
had been commenced against them by Stockdale, and that a writ of summons
had been issued upon them on the 25th of January, by Thomas Burton
Howard, as attorney for Stockdale. A motion was carried, ordering the
said Thomas Burton Howard, forthwith to attend the house: but it was not
till the 6th of February that he could be found, and on that evening
he was ordered to be committed to her majesty's gaol of Newgate.
Subsequently, on the 17th of February, Lord John Russell presented
another petition from Messrs. Hansard, to the effect, that the fifth
action had been renewed against them by Stockdale, for the same cause as
before, and praying to be directed as to the course they should pursue.
His lordship moved to the effect, that Stockdale, by commencing this
fresh action, had been guilty of a contempt of the house, and of a
breach of its privileges, and that the sheriffs, under-sheriffs, and
others, who should aid in the prosecution of the said action, would be
guilty of a contempt of the house, and of a violation of its privileges,
and would subject themselves to the severe censure and displeasure of
the house. This was carried; and on the following evening Thomas
Howard, jun., the attorney in this action, was, on the motion of the
attorney-general, committed to the custody of the sergeant-at-arms.
In the meantime several motions had been made for the discharge of the
sheriffs from prison, on the plea of ill-health. These had been all
negatived; but on the 5th of March, Mr. Sheriff Evans was allowed to be
set at liberty, being at the same time directed to attend at the bar
of the house on Monday, the 6th of April. On the same evening Lord John
Russell moved for leave to bring in a bill to give summary protection to
persons employed in the publication of parliamentary papers, which was
carried by a large majority; and the bill was brought in and read a
third time on the 12th of the same month. On the 31st of March the
sergeant-at-arms appeared at the bar, and acquainted the house that
on Saturday last the assistant-sergeant and four other officers of the
house had been served with notice that an action had been commenced
against them in the court of Queen's Bench, at the suit of Thomas Burton
Howard. Under the impression that a verdict would certainly be given for
the defendants, the attorney-general moved that they should be allowed
to appear and defend the action; a motion which, after a few words in
opposition by Viscount Howick, was carried by a majority of one hundred
and forty against ninety-one. On the 6th April the bill relating to
the protection of persons employed in the publication of parliamentary
papers was sent up to the lords; and, after making some amendments
in committee, the lords passed it and returned it to the commons, who
agreed to the amendments; and on the 14th April the royal assent was
given to it by commission. On the 15th of April, on the motion of Sir R.
Inglis, Mr. Sheriff Evans and Mr. Howard, jun., were discharged. Messrs.
Thomas Burton Howard, sen., and Stockdale were still left in Newgate;
but, on the 15th of May, on the motion of Mr. T. Duncombe, they were
liberated likewise, and thus terminated this much-agitated and important
question. In the course of the discussion in the commons the ablest
lawyers spoke in favour of the particular privilege of free publication
claimed by the house, as essential to the due discharge of its functions
as a constituent branch of the legislature; but many of them dissented
from the doctrine that it was a breach of their privilege to bring them
under the cognizance of a court of law. Above all, they thought that
having once submitted the case to the court of Queen's Bench, by
pleading in the action, they were bound to respect the judgment of the
court; and if they considered it erroneous, to bring it under the review
of a court of error, in the legal and constitutional mode, and not
proceed by arbitrary imprisonment against officers who merely acted
in their ministerial capacity, and who would have stood exposed to the
process of attachment, if they had refused to obey the writs which the
court called upon them to execute. Sir William Fol-lett, indeed, broadly
stated that the commons were enforcing their privileges in a manner
that could not be maintained; that they were assuming powers which the
constitution did not give them; and that he was not able to vote for any
of the committals which had taken place. He did not deny that the house
was the exclusive judge of its own privileges, and that they had the
power of committal; but he did not think that if a servant of the house
should be questioned for any act done under their orders, that they had
a right to deprive the courts of law of their jurisdiction over that
servant.


AFFAIRS OF CHINA, ETC.

During the last year a serious collision took place between the Chinese
authorities and the British subjects at Canton. This arose out of the
contraband traffic in opium. The government of China resolved to put
an end to the commerce altogether, and with this view an imperial
commissioner arrived at Canton. He resorted at once to decisive
measures, by demanding that every particle of opium on board the ships
should be at once delivered up to the government to be destroyed; at
the same time requiring a bond that the ships would never again dare
to introduce that article. In the event of any opium being thereafter
brought, the goods were to be confiscated, and the parties were to
submit to death. Should the foreigners fail to comply with these
requisitions, Commissioner Lin threatened that they would be overwhelmed
by numbers and sacrificed. The whole foreign community was thrown into
a state of the deepest distress at these demands; and the chief
superintendent, Captain Elliot, considered it to be his duty to take his
own countrymen under his protection. He issued a circular, requiring the
surrender into his hands of all the English opium actually on the coast
of China. On the 3rd of April, however, 20,283 chests of opium were
delivered over to the commissioner, from the ships which had assembled
for that purpose below the Bocca Tigris. Some merchants had been
imprisoned by the Chinese authorities; but on the 4th of May leave was
given for all to quit Canton with the exception of sixteen individuals,
who ultimately took their departure with injunctions never to return.
Captain Elliot immediately ordered every subject of her majesty out of
the river; but he did not himself remove from Canton until the 25th of
May, when the proscribed persons had been released, and there remained
no other British subject in jeopardy. When they were out of danger,
he immediately wrote to the governor-general, detailing the course of
violence and spoliation which had broken up this great trade; and at the
same time applied for armed vessels from the Indian station to protect
life and property. Later in the year the breach was widened by an affray
which took place at Macao, between some English sailors and Chinese
villagers, in which, unfortunately, one of the latter was killed.
Commissioner Lin demanded of Captain Elliot that the homicide should be
given up; but this was refused, and in consequence an edict was issued
by Lin prohibiting any provisions or other articles being supplied to
the British at Macao. The British superintendent subsequently removed
his residence to Hong Kong, off which lay the _Volage_ frigate,
commanded by Captain Smith. At the latter end of the year Commissioner
Lin issued an edict against the importation of any British goods,
in which he ordained that a bond should be required from any vessel
entering the port, certifying that it did not contain any British
property on board, and consenting to the confiscation of the ship
and cargo, if any such should be therein discovered. In his edict,
Commissioner Lin gave all foreigners to understand that it was no use to
deceive the Chinese; for there were skilful translators and interpreters
among them, who would certainly ascertain the country from whence
they came. In this state of affairs. Captain Elliot sent a petition
to Commissioner Lin,' entreating for the restoration of the trade with
Canton, until he received further advice from England. The commissioner
replied by a haughty refusal; enumerating all the offences of which, in
the eyes of the "great pure dynasty," the British had been guilty; and
declaring that, until the murderer of the Chinese was given up,
there could be no intercourse allowed between the two nations. But
notwithstanding this peremptory refusal, a temporary adjustment of the
matters in difference so far took place, that Commissioner Lin permitted
the commerce of Great Britain to be carried on below the Bocca Tigris
until further instructions should be received from England. The
high-commissioner still insisted that the captains of all vessels
which traded with Canton should sign the required bond; and this was
unfortunately consented to by Mr. Warner, master of the ship _Thomas
Coutts_. The consequence of this consent was, that Commissioner Lin
determined to break off the arrangement concluded, unless the whole
British shipping which was re-entering the Bocca Tigris should agree
to the same terms: if not, the vessels were again to depart, or be
destroyed. Matters now proceeded to extremities; and the Chinese soon
received a lesson from British artillery. Finding that the inhabitants
of the celestial empire were preparing to attack the fleet, and that
Admiral Kwan lay in considerable force near Chuenpee, two English
frigates, the _Volage_ and _Hyacinth_, were removed to that
neighbourhood. Captain Elliot now prepared another address to
Commissioner Lin, and then went on board the _Volage_ frigate. That
vessel took up her station, on the 2nd of November, not far below the
first battery, where an imposing force of war-junks and fire-vessels was
collected. On the 3rd, the Chinese squadron, consisting of twenty-nine
sail, anchored close to the British vessels, and their attitude became
so menacing that Captain Smith, of the _Volage_, resolved to compel them
to return to their former anchorage. A brief action took place, which
told with terrible effect on the celestials: one war-junk blew up at
a pistol-shot distance from the _Volage_, three were sunk, and several
others water-logged. In about half-an-hour Admiral Kwan and his squadron
retired in great distress to their former anchorage, no obstruction
being offered to their retreat. But notwithstanding their palpable
defeat, as the English ships soon after set sail for Macao, the Chinese
claimed the victory. But this was only the beginning of their sorrows.
At the close of the year the English government determined to send an
expedition into the Chinese seas, which should be sufficient to attain
all the ends we had in view, and compel the great pure dynasty to
acknowledge the principles of international law which were acted upon by
all the civilized nations of the earth. This armament, which consisted
of eight ships of war with frigates, transports, and steamers, arrived
at its place of rendezvous at Singapore, in the month of April of
the present year. It was placed under the command of Admiral Elliot;
Commodore Sir J. J. Gordon Brewer was next in command, and Major-General
Burrell had the command of the military force. Previous to this an edict
had been issued, warning all foreign vessels from anchoring near the
devoted English ships, lest they should be involved in the destruction
preparing for the latter--"lest the gem should be consumed with the
common stone." The first arrival of this armament in the Canton river
was her majesty's ship _Alligator_, Captain Kuper, on the 9th of June.
Previous to this the Chinese authorities at Canton had sent a boat-load
of poisoned tea, packed in small parcels, to be sold to the English
sailors. This boat was captured by Chinese pirates, and her cargo
sold to their own countrymen, many of whom died in consequence. A
proclamation was issued, by the Chinese authorities, offering rewards to
all who should destroy the English, and who should be able to capture
an English man-of-war. An attempt was indeed made to burn the British
shipping, but this happily failed, and then Sir J. J. Gordon Brewer gave
public notice, that on and after the 28th of June, a blockade of the
river and port of Canton would be established. The commodore, however,
witli several ships, sailed northward in the direction of Cliusan, and
he was followed on the 28th by Admiral Elliot and Captain Elliot. The
Chinese authorities now bestirred themselves vigorously to meet the
danger. By a proclamation issued on the 2nd of July, the people were
called upon to unite heart and hand with the government in opposing
the barbarians. All the proclamations and precautions of the Chinese,
however, were vain. On Sunday, the 5th of June, the British captured
Chusan: for the first time British cannon wrested from his celestial
majesty a portion of his dominions.

The policy of government with reference to the affairs of China was made
the subject of a series of condemnatory resolutions in parliament.
These were brought forward by Sir James Graham on the 7th of April,
who introduced the subject by calling the attention of the house to the
magnitude of the interests involved in our relations with China. The
right honourable baronet then went into a detailed history of the
disputes of which a brief account is given above; and finally concluded
by moving, that "it appears to the house, in consideration of the
papers relating to China, presented to this house by command of
her majesty, that the interruption in our commercial and friendly
intercourse with that country, and the hostilities which have since
taken place, are mainly to be attributed to the want of foresight and
precaution on the part of her majesty's present advisers in respect to
our relations with China; and especially to their neglect to furnish
the superintendent at Canton with powers and instructions calculated to
provide against the growing evils connected with the contraband traffic
in opium, and adapted to the novel and difficult situation in which the
superintendent was placed." Mr. Macauley replied to Sir James Graham;
and a long debate ensued, in which the motion was supported by Sir
W. Follett, Messrs. Thesiger, Sidney Herbert, W. E. Gladstone, and G.
Palmer; and opposed by Sirs George Staunton, S. Lushington, and J. C.
Hobhouse, and Messrs. Hawes, C. Buller, and Ward. The debate was closed
by powerful speeches from Sir Robert Peel in support of the motion, and
Viscount Palmerston against it. On a division the motion was negatived
by a majority of two hundred and seventy-one against two hundred and
sixty-two.


THE IRISH MUNICIPAL CORPORATIONS BILL, ETC.

The second reading of the Irish municipal corporations bill was moved on
the 14th of February in the commons by Viscount Morpeth. It was carried
by a majority of one hundred and forty-nine against fourteen; and the
house, on the 24th of February, went into committee on the bill, when
several amendments were proposed and negatived. The bill was read a
third time in the commons on the 9th of March; but the second reading
was not moved in the lords until the 4th of May. The Earl of Winchilsea
moved that the bill be read a second time that day six months, which
amendment was supported by the Marquis of Westmeath; but the Duke of
Wellington recommended their lordships to vote for the second reading;
and, after a few words from Viscount Melbourne, it was carried by a
large majority. The house went into committee on the 19th of June,
when the Bishop of Exeter delivered a powerful speech against it. Their
lordships, however, went into committee, and Lord Lyndhurst proposed
several amendments, which were ordered to be printed. On a subsequent
evening, Lord Lyndhurst explained the nature of his amendments, and when
the house was in committee, he moved and carried an amendment which went
to preserve the inchoate rights of freemen, which under this bill were
threatened. Several other amendments were agreed to without a division,
and some clauses were struck out; and on the 6th of July the bill was
recommitted in the house of lords. The third reading was moved by
Viscount Duncannon on the 31st July, when Lord Lyndhurst proposed and
carried an amendment relating to the recorder of Dublin. He proposed to
strike out of the 161st clause, which had reference to the holding of
the recorder's court, these words, "or as the lord-lieutenant shall
from time to time think fit to direct." This proposition was resisted
by ministers, but was carried by a majority of sixteen. On the question
that the bill do now pass, it was again opposed by the Bishop of Exeter,
who predicted that "it would not, and could not come to good;" but it
passed, and the bill was, on the 3rd of August, brought down to the
commons.

After a brief discussion in the lower house, managers were appointed to
conduct a conference with the lords on the subject of their amendments,
and the result was more harmonious than heretofore: in some things the
commons gave way to the lords, and in others, the lords gave way to the
commons; and by this mutual concession, the bill finally received, on
the 10th of August, the royal assent.

On the 14th of February Mr. Labouchere moved the second reading of the
importation of flour info Ireland bill, which, after some opposition
offered by Mr. E. Tennent, was carried by a majority of one hundred and
fifty-four against one hundred and two.


FINANCIAL STATEMENT, ETC.

The ministerial budget was brought forward on the 15th day of May. The
total income of the year 1840 amounted to £47,685,000, and the total
expenditure £49,300,000; leaving a deficiency of £1,457,000. With a
view of meeting this deficiency, however, a vote of £1,000,000 of
exchequer-bills had been taken, which reduced the balance to £457,000.
Mr. Baring calculated the expenditure of the current financial year to
be £49,432,000, and the income £46,700,000. To meet the deficiency he
proposed to increase the assessed taxes fen per cent.; the customs and
excise five per cent.; to lay an additional duty of fourpence per gallon
on all spirits, British, colonial, and foreign; and to take a vote of
credit of £395,000. He, expected, also, that by a more strict collection
of the assessed taxes he should obtain £150,000. His income and
expenditure would thus be made equal; but as the increase to be derived
from raising the duties would not be available to the full extent this
year, he thought it would be necessary to take a vote of credit for
£350,000. He concluded by moving resolutions authorizing him to make the
proposed additions to the taxes.


THE UNION OF THE CANADAS.

On the 23rd of March Lord John Russell moved for leave to bring in
a bill for the union of the Canadas. His lordship said, that he had
allowed no time to elapse since the arrival of the propositions from
the governor-general of Canada, who had taken the greatest pains to
ascertain the sentiments of the people in that colony upon the measure
he was about to introduce. In his opinion the union would not have
been expedient, had it been repugnant to the feelings of the Canadians
themselves. "But," continued his lordship, "the council of Lower Canada
have been called together, and have passed resolutions agreeing to
the principle of an union, but leaving the details to the imperial
parliament. In Upper Canada, the measure has been much discussed,
both in the assembly and the legislative council; and, after a full
consideration of the whole question, a resolution in favour of the union
was passed, unfettered by any restrictions or conditions." His lordship
proceeded to state the nature of the proposed union. With regard to the
legislative council and assembly, it was proposed, that, together with
the governor, they should form the legislature; and that the crown, or
the governor on the part of the crown, should appoint the legislative
crown councillors. The nomination of the council was to be for life, the
only disqualification being bankruptcy or crime. It was further proposed
that the number of representatives sent by Upper and Lower Canada should
be equal, with the power of adding members as the population increased.
Thirty-nine members were to be allowed to each province, and distributed
without any great alteration of the existing boundaries. In Upper
Canada, the towns of Kingston, Hamilton, Brockville, London, Niagara,
and Cornwall, and in Lower Canada, Montreal, Quebec, and the three
Rivers were each to send one member; the rest of the members for each
province were to be returned by districts which were to be denominated
"counties." Lord John Russell next entered upon the question relating
to the laws, and to the mode in which they were to be enacted. A general
power only was to be given to the assembly to enact laws: certain
subjects were to be reserved for the assent of the crown, such as those
pointed out by the constitutional act of 1791. It was proposed that
money-votes should not originate with the assembly; but that a message
from the governor, giving the assembly the power of addressing him,
should precede any vote on such matters. A permanent appropriation was
to be made for the governor and judges, and the civil secretary and all
the various expenses connected with the civil establishments were to be
voted, either for a period of years, or during the life of the queen. It
was also proposed that the duties included in the act introduced by the
Earl of Ripon, and collected under the 14th George III., should become
part of the crown revenue. His lordship continued to say, that in Upper
Canada there was already the form of a municipal government: there were
townships and elective offices; and they had likewise districts formed
of two or more counties, which were attached to the local courts for the
administration of justice: but their powers were limited. He proposed
that the power of these municipal councils should be increased, and
that they should be enabled to lay a tax of threepence an acre upon
all lands. The same authority in local matters was to be granted to
the municipal courts in Lower Canada--that of forming districts and
settling the boundaries of such districts. His lordship concluded by
making some remarks on the clergy reserves, in the course of which he
stated that a bill had been passed by the Upper Canada assembly, which
proposed that the clergy reserves should be sold, and that one half of
the proceeds should be given to the churches of England and Scotland,
and that the remaining half should be divided among the clergy of all
denominations of Christians recognised by certain acts of the province,
such as that of registration. His lordship thought that this bill would
give general satisfaction; but Mr. Hume stated that the noble lord
was mistaken in supposing that such a bill would settle discontent in
Canada. The Canada union bill was read a first and second time without
opposition; and on the 29th of May Lord John Russell moved that the
house should go into committee on its details. After a few words in
opposition from Messrs. Pakington and O'Connell, and in support of it by
Messrs. Gladstone and Charles Buller, the house went into committee, and
the various clauses of the bill were all agreed to almost unanimously.
The third reading was carried by a majority of one hundred and fifty-six
against six. In the course of the discussion Sir Robert Peel had
suggested that the civil-list should be charged on the consolidated fund
of the provinces, and Mr. Ellis had proposed the omission of all the
clauses relating to district councils; and on a subsequent evening Lord
John Russell intimated that he should adopt those suggestions. On
the second reading in the house of lords, on the 30th of June, a
considerable discussion took place; but the bill was allowed to go into
committee without a division. In committee the Duke of Wellington moved
that the commencement of the operation of the act should be postponed
to fifteen months, instead of six, after its passing, as proposed by
government; and Lord Ellenborough moved a clause to empower the governor
and two-thirds of the council to suspend any member guilty of unworthy
and disreputable conduct. Both these amendments were agreed to, and the
bill afterwards was read a third time. A bill introduced by Lord John
Russell for the sale of the Canada clergy reserves also subsequently
passed, without much opposition, through both houses of parliament.


ECCLESIASTICAL DUTIES AND REVENUES BILL.

During Sir Robert Peel's administration in 1835 an ecclesiastical
commission had been appointed for the purpose of considering what
changes could be made in the distribution of the revenues of the church
of England with benefit to the establishment and to the community at
large. These commissioners had made their report, and her majesty in her
speech at the opening of parliament had advised the prosecution of the
measures recommended by the commissioners. The plan chiefly consisted in
a modification of the constitution of chapters and cathedral colleges,
and in the reduction of the expenses of cathedral establishments to a
large amount; the saving to be expended in the augmentation of small
livings, and the supplying the existing want of spiritual instruction
by means of additional churches and resident clergymen. The measure
for these purposes, which was introduced in the commons by Lord John
Russell, created but little discussion and still less opposition; but
in the house of lords it was not looked upon with so much favour. The
second reading was moved by Lord Melbourne on the 27th of July, and
was carried by a majority of ninety-nine against forty-eight. The house
subsequently went into committee, and some amendments were proposed, but
none which affected the leading principles of the bill.


THE REGENCY BILL.

In consequence of a message from the crown, a bill was passed during
this session, appointing his royal highness Prince Albert regent in
the possible event of her most gracious majesty's decease, during the
minority of any issue to her majesty, whilst such issue should be under
the age of eighteen years, and for the care and guardianship of such
issue. This bill was introduced by the lord-chancellor on the 16th of
July, and was passed with the unanimous approbation of both houses of
parliament.


PROROGATION OF PARLIAMENT.

Parliament was prorogued by her majesty in person on the 11th of August.
The speech congratulated both houses on the termination of the civil
war in Spain; and informed them that the government of Portugal had made
arrangements for satisfying certain just claims of some of her majesty's
subjects, and for the payment of a sum due to this country under the
stipulations of the convention of 1827. Her majesty further said that
she was engaged, in concert with the Emperors of Austria and Russia
and the King of Prussia, in measures tending to effect the permanent
pacification of the Levant. After alluding to the disputes with China,
her majesty proceeded to make some remarks on the subject of Canada and
the legislative bodies of Jamaica, &c.: and the speech concluded with
an expression of regret that it had been found necessary to impose
additional burdens upon the people.


AFFAIRS OF BRITISH INDIA.

The army of the Indus having achieved the object for which it had
been sent to the north-western extremity of India, by seating Shah
Soojah-ool-Moolk on the throne of Cabul, and by storming the fortresses
of Ghuznee and Khelat, commenced its retrograde march in the middle of
October. 1839. The army marched in two divisions, one to Bengal, under
Sir J. Keene and the other to Bombay, by the Bolau Pass and Scinde. At
this time Dost Mohammed seemed shorn of his power; he had retired across
the Hindoo Koosh, the passes of which were guarded, and the chiefs
of Balkh and Bokhara refused to join him. But although the prowess of
British arms had wrested from him the throne of Afghanistan, Shah Soojah
was by no means secure of it a moment longer than he was supported by
European aid, The precarious tenure by which he held his power was seen
early in this year, when Syed Hoshein, the chief of Koona, sent a letter
to his majesty, couched in the most insulting terms, and stating that,
as he had heard the Russians were advancing, it was his intention to
join them. On hearing this Sir Willoughby Cotton, who commanded one
division of the force which was returning to Bengal, despatched Colonel
Orchard from Jellalabad, with a body of troops to attack the fort of
Pooshat, where the Koona chief resided. Pooshat was captured, but Syed
Hoshein escaped. The state of Affghanistan, however, still remained
unsettled, for Dost Mohammed was employed with restless activity in
intriguing among the native princes, with a view to recovering the
throne which he had lost; and at the close of the year the British
troops which had been left to support Shah Soojah imperatively demanded
refreshment and repose. In testimony of the services of the army of the
Indus, Lord Auckland resolved that all the corps, European and native,
in the service of the East India Company, which proceeded beyond
the Bolau Pass, should have on their regimental colours the word
"Affghanistan," and such of them as were employed in the reduction of
the fortress of that name the word "Ghuznee" in addition. In the same
general order he stated, on behalf of the queen's regiments, that he
would recommend to her majesty that the same distinction should be
granted to them. Besides this complimentary notice, Lord Auckland
ordered that a donation of six months' full or field batta should
be given to officers and men of every rank attached to the army who
advanced beyond the Bolau Pass.


THE MARRIAGE OF THE QUEEN.

Her most gracious majesty Queen Victoria was married to Prince Albert
of Saxe-Cobourg-Gotha on the 10th of February. This event gave great
satisfaction to the people generally, both in the dominions of her
majesty and in the duchy of Saxe-Cobourg-Gotha.


STATE OF THE CONTINENT.

During this year the Carlists in Spain were compelled to give up the
contest which they had so long carried on against the queen regent. All
the principal places held by the chiefs of that party still remaining in
the country, fell into the hands of the Christino generals; and Cabrera
and Balemaseda took refuge in France, while Borso, another Carlist
leader, was captured and shot. In the spring of this year a question
arose with the Neapolitan government and the British cabinet, which led
to hostilities on the part of England, and at one time threatened to
involve other powers in Europe in a general quarrel. This question
related to the "sulphur monopoly." A treaty existed which gave certain
commercial advantages to England in respect of sulphur, and the treaty
set forth that the Neapolitan government was not to grant any
state mercantile privileges hostile to the British interests. But
notwithstanding this distinct stipulation, the King of Naples granted
some natives of France, in 1838, as well as others of different
countries, a monopoly of all the sulphur produced and worked in Sicily.
Great Britain naturally considered this grant to be a direct infraction
of the stipulation of the existing treaty; and Lord Palmerston called on
the Neapolitan government for the immediate termination of the monopoly,
and full indemnity for all losses sustained by British subjects arising
therefrom. The king professed to comply: Prince Cassaro, the minister
for foreign affairs, wrote a note to Mr. Kennedy, stating that the
monopoly should be abolished, and that the King of Naples acted thus
in deference to England. Shortly afterwards, however, his Neapolitan
majesty signified to the British minister that he had determined not to
consent to the demands of Great Britain, he not considering the sulphur
contract a violation of the treaty of 1816. The British government now
proceeded to enforce its demands: orders were sent to Admiral Sir R.
Stopford, in the Mediterranean, to hold himself in readiness to commence
active hostilities against the Neapolitan flag. Hostilities commenced on
the 17th of April by the British ships of war in the vicinity of Naples;
an embargo was laid on all in the ports of Malta that bore the Sicilian
flag. At first the king prepared to resist: but he was induced finally
to accept the proposed mediation of France, in adjusting the quarrel,
on the principle that the monopoly should be dissolved, and an indemnity
given to the contractors. Early in May amicable relations between the
courts of England and Naples commenced. In the month of July this year,
the affairs of the Levant were brought to a crisis. A convention was
signed at London between England, Russia, Austria, and Prussia--France
declined to concur in it; whereby the following ultimatum was offered
to the viceroy of Egypt. He was to have the hereditary sovereignty of
Egypt, and the possession of the pashalic of St. Jean d'Acre for life.
If within ten days from the notification of these terms the pasha should
not accept them, the Sultan was to offer him Egypt alone; and, if he
still persisted in refusing, the four powers were to compel him by force
to accede to the proposed settlement. Disliking the terms, Mehemet Ali
endeavoured to gain time by offering a negociation with the Porte: Rifat
Bey was sent to Constantinople with certain proposals; but these were
not deemed satisfactory; and the Sultan, acting upon intemperate
advice, pronounced the formal deposition of the Sultan of Egypt from his
pashalic, and sent a firman to Alexandria to notify that event. Mehemet
Ali intimated his intention of repelling force by force; and it was then
resolved by the four powers that the ports of Syria and Egypt should
be declared to be in a state of blockade. Captain Napier immediately
captured some Egyptian vessels off the coast of Syria; and on the 9th of
September, Admiral Stopford appeared off Beyrout, and the next day made
preparations for bombarding and taking that town and fortress. Beyrout
was captured, and the troops of Ibrahim Pasha, which consisted of 14,000
men, subsequently dispersed, while he himself fled to Damascus. The
ports of Syria and Alexandria were now strictly blockaded, and in a
short time after, Tripoli, Tortosa, and Latakia were evacuated by their
Egyptian garrisons, St. Jean d'Acre was next captured, and the Egyptian
garrisons in Caiffa and Jaffa immediately evacuated those places; and
while they were endeavouring to force for themselves a passage through
Palestine into Egypt, were taken prisoners of war. The Syrian tribes,
which had hitherto been in the interest of the Pasha of Egypt, now
declared in favour of the Sultan, and on the 19th of November the
Seraskier was informed that the garrison and inhabitants of Jerusalem
had returned to their allegiance to the Porte. About this time
negociations were commenced between Commodore Napier and the Pasha of
Egypt, but the year closed before a convention was ratified. In Holland,
this year was signalized by the abdication of its monarch, William I.
In the month of October he voluntarily laid down the crown, and was
succeeded by his eldest son, the Prince of Orange, who ascended the
throne by the title of William II. In Prussia there was also a change
in the monarchy: Frederick William III. expired at Berlin on the 7th of
June, and he was succeeded by his son Frederic William IV.


CHAPTER LII.

{VICTORIA. 1841--1842}

     Meeting of  Parliament..... Poor-law Amendment Act.....
     Jews'  Civil  Disabilities Removal Bill..... Church of
     Scotland; Non-intrusion Question, &c...... Law Reform.....
     Financial Statements..... Discussion on the Corn-laws.....
     Resolution of Want of Confidence in the Government.....
     Prorogation  and Dissolution of Parliament..... State of
     Parties..... Meeting of the  new House of   Commons,
     &c...... Resignation of Ministers..... Sir Robert   Peel's
     Administration..... Statement of Sir Robert Peel as to his
     intended   Course of Proceeding-,  &c...... Financial
     Statement..... Poor-laws, &c...... East India Affairs.....
     State of the Continent.


MEETING OF PARLIAMENT.

{A.D. 1841}

Parliament was opened by her majesty in person, on the 26th of January.
Her majesty's speech chiefly referred to the posture of affairs in the
Levant and China, and to serious differences which had arisen between
Spain and Portugal about the execution of a treaty concluded by those
powers in 1835, for regulating the navigation of the Douro.

On the 4th of February the Earl of Minto moved the thanks of the house
to Admiral Sir Robert Stopford, G.C.B., and the officers and men under
his command in the late operations on the coast of Syria. This motion
was carried _nem. con_. The same unanimity prevailed also in the commons
on the same subject.


POOR LAW AMENDMENT ACT.

On the 29th of January Lord John Russell moved in the house of commons
for leave to bring in "a bill to continue the poor-law commission for a
time to be limited, and for the further amendment of the laws relating
to the poor in England." The powers of the commissioners were to be
continued for ten years, and when his lordship had made this known,
several members, as Sir. Burdett, and Messrs. Wakley and Hume, opposed
such an extension of powers to them. Leave, however, was given to bring
in the bill on the 8th of February; and an important debate took place
on the second reading. The debate was opened by Mr. D'Israeli, who
opposed the bill, and moved that it should be read that day six months.
Mr. Wakley seconded this amendment. The motion was carried by a majority
of two hundred and one against fifty-four. But although the principle of
the bill was thus emphatically confirmed, yet on several occasions the
attacks upon it were renewed by its opponents with much acerbity. Upon
the motion for the committal of the bill, Mr. Townley Parker moved, and
Mr. Grimsditch seconded the motion, that it should be committed that day
six months: but this was negatived by a large majority, and the bill was
committed. When the bill was in committee, government gave up the
longer period of ten years for the continuance of the powers of the
commissioners, and reduced it to five, in deference to the opinion
expressed by Sir Robert Peel, and other members. After this, the
bill was considerably delayed in its progress by a great variety of
amendments suggested by members on both sides of the house, to several
of which government assented, and one or two of which were carried
against the wishes of ministers.


JEWS' CIVIL DISABILITIES REMOVAL BILL.

During this session, Mr. Divett, one of the members for Exeter,
introduced a bill, the object of which was to do away with the
declaration required by the municipal corporations act from all persons
taking corporate offices, by reason of which members of the Jewish
persuasion had been debarred from holding civic magistracies. This bill
was opposed on the second reading by Sir R. Inglis; but on a division
it was carried by a majority of one hundred and thirteen against
twenty-four. On the third reading Mr. Gladstone moved that it be read
that day six months; a motion which was seconded by Mr. Pringle; both
objecting to the principle of the bill, as hostile to the constitution
and repugnant to the feelings of Christians. Mr. Macauley and Lord
Sandon supported, and Mr. Goulburn and Sir R. Inglis opposed the
measure. The third reading was carried in the commons by a majority of
one hundred and eight against thirty-one; but the bill experienced a
different fate in the house of lords. It passed a second reading; but
on the third reading its rejection was moved by the Bishop of Llandaff,
which was carried by ninety-eight against sixty-four: the bill was
consequently lost.


CHURCH OF SCOTLAND: NON-INTRUSION QUESTION, ETC.

On the 1st of May, the Duke of Argyle introduced a measure with
reference to the right of patronage in the church of Scotland: a
question which had been long the subject of controversy. In introducing
his bill, the noble duke, after referring to the history of the various
acts of the legislature affecting the right of patronage in the church
of Scotland, proceeded to read some letters from Drs. Gordon and
Chalmers, and others of the dominant party in the church, with the view
of showing that the total abolition of patronage, as by law established,
was not the means by which this party desired the settlement of the
existing differences. The object of the bill proposed, the noble
duke subsequently explained, was to give effect to the principle of
non-intrusion on the right of the congregation to give their approval or
dissent to the appointment of any presentee that might be offered them
by the patron. He felt convinced, he said, that unless some measure to
this effect were passed, the most lamentable consequences to the church
of Scotland would ensue, and there can be no doubt but a secession of
a large number of the members of the church would take place; while, if
the principle of non-intrusion were conceded, the surest means would
be taken to put an end to the agitation of those who were opposed to
patronage. Lord Aberdeen said that he wished to give full expression
to the genuine and honest feelings and wishes of the people in these
matters, but he could not give his support to a measure which might lead
to the monstrous consequence of compelling the presbytery to reject a
presentee, though he were objected to for no other reason than because
he had been presented, or because he had been compelled to take the oath
of allegiance. Lord Dunfermline and the earl of Haddington opposed, and
the marquess of Breadalbane supported the measure, and it was read a
first time. On the 27th of May, the general assembly of the church of
Scotland deposed seven clergymen of the presbytery of Strathbogie, and
these seven ministers appealed to parliament. A petition was presented
from them on the 15th of June, by Lord Aberdeen, in which they called
upon the house to save them, by its interference, from the consequences
of the sentence which had been pronounced. This petition gave rise to
a discussion in the house of lords, but no step was taken for the
restoration of the deposed ministers.


LAW-REFORM.

During this session there was a further mitigation of the criminal code.
Two bills were introduced for this purpose in the house of commons. The
first of these was introduced by Mr. Kelly, who proposed to abolish the
punishment of death for all the crimes still capital, except murder and
treason. This motion was seconded by Mr. Ewart, and the bill was brought
in; but shortly afterwards a measure was introduced on the part
of government, by Lord John Russell, which proposed to abolish the
punishment of death in certain cases of embezzlement; for the offence of
returning from transportation; for burning ships, where the act involved
no treasonable intent; and for the crime of rape. Mr. Kelly approved of
this measure as far as it went, but contended for the superiority of his
own more comprehensive measure. He particularly objected to leaving the
offence of setting fire to ships in the royal dockyards capital, and to
retaining the punishment of death for attempts to murder. Mr. Kelly's
bill went first into committee; but he experienced so many defeats that
he was induced to leave government to deal with their own measures on
the same subject. The result was, that near the close of the session a
bill was passed, whereby the punishment of transportation for life is
substituted for death in all cases of forgery and embezzlement, which
had before remained capital, and the crime of rape is made subject to
the same mitigated penalty.


FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.

On the 31st of April, the chancellor of the exchequer entered into his
financial statement. When he came forward last year, he said, he had
anticipated that the expenditure would amount to £49,499,000, and the
income to £48,641,000; leaving a deficiency of £858,000. The results
of the year had proved less favourable than he had anticipated: the
expenditure had amounted only to £49,285,000, but the income had only
reached £47,443,000, leaving a deficiency of more than £1,840,000.
He calculated that the expenditure for the ensuing year would be
£50,731,226, and the income £48,310,000, which would leave a deficiency
of £2,421,000 to be provided for. In order to raise the revenue, Mr.
Baring proposed to deal with the two articles, timber and sugar. The
present duty on colonial timber, he said, amounted to ten shillings
a load, and on Baltic timber fifty-five shillings. These duties he
proposed to modify, by raising that on colonial to twenty shillings,
and reducing that on Baltic to fifty shillings a load, by which he
anticipated an increased revenue of £750,000. He next explained that the
alteration which he intended to propose in the sugar-duties would still
leave a protection of fifty per cent. to colonial sugar. He would leave,
he said, the duty on colonial sugar at the present amount of twenty-four
shillings per cwt., but that on foreign sugar, amounting to sixty-three
shillings, he proposed to reduce to thirty-six shillings per cwt.; from
which change he expected an augmentation of revenue of £700,000. There
would still, he said, be a deficiency to be provided for. But Lord
John Russell had that evening given notice of his intention at an early
period to submit the question of the corn-trade to the consideration of
the house; and if the propositions of his noble friend were agreed to,
he should be under no uneasiness about the deficiency; if not, it would
be his duty to make provision by direct taxation. Messrs. Hume, Ward,
Villiers, and other members, expressed their satisfaction at the
propositions of the chancellor of the exchequer, while Lord Francis
Egerton, Viscount Sandon, Sir Robert Peel, and Messrs. Goulburn and
Christopher, complained of them, and especially of the announcement of
an intended alteration in the corn-laws. The debate on the budget was
protracted to a considerable length, and the nature of the discussion
will be seen in the following article.


DISCUSSION ON THE CORN-LAWS.

The announcement made by Mr. Baring, that an alteration in the corn-laws
was contemplated by government, caused the anti-corn-law party to set to
work with activity to organize new associations, to despatch lecturers
and emissaries, which might rouse the public mind throughout the
country, and to get up requisitions for public meetings in the principal
towns. In parliament, also, the opposition lost no time in coming to the
attack. On the 3rd of May, the Duke of Buckingham presented one hundred
and twenty petitions against a repeal of the corn-laws.

In the house of commons, Viscount Sandon gave notice of the following
resolution, which he would move on going into the committee of ways and
means: "That, considering the efforts and sacrifices which parliament
and the country have made for the abolition of the slave-trade and
slavery, with the earnest hope that their exertions and example might
lead to a mitigation and final extinction of those evils in other
countries, this house is not prepared, especially with the present
prospects of the supply of sugar from the British possessions, to adopt
the measure proposed by her majesty's government for the reduction of
the duty on foreign sugars." Lord John Russell gave notice, in the event
of the house not going into committee on the sugar duties, and
Viscount Sandon's resolution being put from the chair, he should move
a counter-resolution; namely, "That it is the opinion of this house,
that it is practicable to supply the present inadequacy of the revenue
to meet the expenditure of the country, by a judicious alteration of
protective and differential duties, without any material increase of the
public burdens; that such a course will, at the same time, promote the
interests of trade, and afford relief to the industrious classes, and is
best calculated to provide for the maintenance of the public faith and
the general welfare of the people." A third notice was given by Mr.
O'Connell, to the effect that any diminution of the duty on foreign
sugar should be limited to that which was produced by free labour, and
not extend in any way to the produce of slave labour. The debate on the
sugar question was preceded by the presentation of petitions both for
and against the alterations proposed by government. In commencing the
debate, which lasted eight nights, Lord John Russell took the formal
motion for going into committee out of Mr. Baring's hands, and
availed himself of the opportunity for pre-occupying the ground, and
anticipating the arguments of his opponents. In his speech his lordship
remarked, that if this had been merely a financial question, he should
have left it in the hands of the chancellor of the exchequer. He
regarded it, however, as constituting, by the variety and magnitude of
its relations, a great national subject. Government were well aware,
he continued, at the commencement of the year, that the finance of
the country was matter of great difficulty, and would require great
attention. Their resolution to consider the corn-laws was formed before
the 11th of March, when the notice was given that the colonial duties
would be reviewed.

Government had to meet a deficiency of £2,400,000. It was open to the
house to have objected to the expenditure at the time; but now to oppose
the going into committee of ways and means, without suggesting any other
plan as preferable to that of the government, was unworthy of a great
party. Ministers had preferred the plan of altering the import duties,
as now proposed, for the purpose of relieving instead of oppressing the
people. Being prepared to deal with sugar and timber as questions of
revenue, they would not have been justified in excluding the other great
question, that of corn; especially with their opinions on the merits of
that question, and their belief that, sooner or later, it must be made
the means of an extensive change in the commercial situation of this
country. Before the house had gone into committee, Lord John Russell had
announced the rate of duties which he meant to propose on corn; namely,
on wheat, a duty of eight shillings per quarter; on rye, of five
shillings; on barley, of four shillings and sixpence, and on oats, of
three shillings and sixpence. His lordship now said that the duties he
meant to propose, added to the charge of freight, would constitute a
sufficient protection, keeping the price of wheat, in all probability,
at from fifty to sixty shillings a quarter. With respect to sugar,
he considered the true principle was protection, not prohibition. He
entered into some details, for the purpose of showing that West Indian
interests would be protected under the proposals of ministers, and
that freedom of commercial intercourse among nations had a tendency to
improve and cheapen the productions of each. By the admission of foreign
sugar, his lordship said, the industry of the West Indies would be
stimulated to better means of production, and the English labourer would
obtain his sugar on more reasonable terms. His lordship next entered
into various statistical details, to prove that the great measure of
slave emancipation had been eminently successful; and that the condition
of the negroes was not only promising, but prosperous. On Lord
John Russell's resuming his seat, Viscount Sandon rose to propose a
resolution of which he had given notice.

Lord John Russell then moved _pro forma_ the resolution of which he had
given notice as an amendment to Viscount Sandon's; but it was negatived
without a division; and that of Viscount Sandon's being carried, the
house adjourned. After this defeat it was generally expected that
ministers would resign; but on the next day business was resumed,
and carried on as though nothing of importance had happened; and when
business was over Lord John Russell simply moved that the house at its
rising should adjourn to the Monday following. The Earl of Darlington,
on hearing this, said that he had been relieved of all suspense as to
the intentions of government: it was plain that they meant to stay in
office with a tenacity unparalleled in the history of governments,
and with the deliberate decision of the house of commons unequivocally
declared against them. He asked when Lord John Russell intended to bring
forward the question of the corn-laws. And his lordship replied, "On
Friday, the 4th of June;" but before that day arrived ministers had
suffered another signal defeat, and were compelled to postpone the
subject.


RESOLUTION OF WANT OF CONFIDENCE IN THE GOVERNMENT.

On the first day on which the house met after its temporary adjournment,
Sir Robert Peel gave notice that he should move, on the 27th of May,
this resolution:--"That her majesty's ministers do not sufficiently
possess the confidence of the house of commons to enable them to carry
through the house measures which they deem of essential importance to
the public welfare; and that their continuance in office under such
circumstances is at variance with the spirit of the constitution." On
the day named the right honourable baronet introduced this resolution
with a speech of considerable length and ability. The debate which
ensued lasted five nights; in the course of which much was said for
and against the motion. The leading speakers in support of it were Lord
Stanley, Sirs James Graham and William Follett, and Messrs. Christopher
and Sergeant Jackson; those against it were Viscount Morpeth, Sir George
Grey, Dr. Lushington, and Messrs. Macauley, Handley, O'Connell, and
Shiel. Towards the close of the debate, Lord John Russell denied that
the motion was in the spirit of the constitution, and ably defended his
own conduct and that of his colleagues in retaining office. Sir Robert
Peel briefly replied; and on a division the motion was carried by a
majority of three hundred and twelve against three hundred and eleven.
After this division, Lord John Russell announced that he would state
on the following Monday the course which the government should resolve
under existing circumstances to pursue.


PROROGATION AND DISSOLUTION OF PARLIAMENT.

At the meeting of the house on the following Monday, after moving the
order of the day for the committee of supply, Lord John Russell said
that he and his colleagues had come to the determination not to bring
on the alteration of the corn-laws as a government measure. He further
stated that, after the late division, he felt that tire government could
expect no further majorities in the house of commons, and that they
would not make any further struggle for the retention of their offices
until the opinion of the nation had been ascertained. A desultory
conversation followed, in which his lordship expressly declared that the
intentions of government were to advise that no time should be lost in
dissolving the present Parliament, and that a new one should be summoned
without delay. Subsequently the house resolved itself into a committee
of supply; and the estimates were voted without opposition. The session
was now virtually at an end, although the condemned parliament lingered
on for about a fortnight after the ministerial announcement of a
dissolution. In the course of that period Lord John Russell announced
many bills, in more or less advanced stages, as abandoned; but he still
sought to carry the bill for the better administration of justice. This
bill, however, was opposed by Sir E. Sugden, who moved that it should
not come into operation till the 10th day of October. This motion was
carried; and Lord John Russell then declared his determination to throw
up the bill altogether. It thus fell to the ground; but it was revived
in the next session, and then passed into a law. After this discussion
nothing worthy of note occurred; and on the 22nd of June, parliament
was prorogued by the queen in person, after having previously given her
assent to the appropriation and other bills. The lord-chancellor then
declared parliament to be prorogued to Tuesday, the 29th of June; and
on the following day the queen's proclamation was issued, by which the
parliament thus prorogued was declared to be dissolved; and writs for a
new one were issued, returnable on the 19th of August. Thus terminated
the first session of 1841; a more barren and unprofitable one than which
is not to be found in the annals of modern parliaments. It lasted nearly
five months, and yet all the great questions brought forward were still
in an unsettled state. It has indeed been well remarked, that "the whole
operations of this session might have been at once blotted out of the
records of parliament, with scarcely any sensible effects upon the laws
or institutions of the country."


STATE OF PARTIES.

On the dissolution of parliament both the great parties in the
state--the Conservatives and Liberals--prepared themselves for the
struggle which was immediately to ensue at the general election. The
hopes and expectations of the two parties were essentially different. On
the one hand, the Conservative party had been for some time increasing
in numbers throughout the country. Their ranks had been recruited
by those who had been accustomed to identify themselves with their
opponents, but who believed that the time was come when the exigencies
of the country demanded a strong and efficient government, and who were
willing to accord to Conservative statesmen the merit of being ready to
support all measures of real amendment; knowing that they only had the
power of carrying such measures into effect. There were, moreover,
many who although they stood aloof from the Conservative party, and
professed jealous suspicion of its future policy, who were not averse
to give it once more a trial in the possession of power. It was clear,
indeed, that the Conservative party at this period stood the highest in
the estimation of the people. The landowners and farmers were united in
their favour, and the mercantile body, alarmed at the attack which had
been made upon our West Indian and Canadian interests in the articles of
sugar and timber, agreed, too, in an anxious desire for their return to
power. The Liberal party, however, could still reckon confidently upon
the support of the Radicals; and they had an advantage even from their
recent defeat. The defeat happened in consequence of certain financial
measures which they brought forward in their budget, which measures
assumed the character of a removal of disabilities from trade. This
afforded good grounds for an appeal to the people, and an attack
upon monopoly. Land-owners and West Indian proprietors were styled
monopolists: the former, because the legislature had imposed a duty on
corn for the protection of agriculture; and the latter, because their
interests were protected by a duty on sugar. In like manner it was
attempted to excite popular odium against other classes, as favoured
in the acquisition of wealth at the expense of the community: all who
supported the Conservatives were subjected to the same charge, while the
supporters of government were exultingly denominated anti-monopolists.
The watch-word of the Liberal party was, in truth, "anti-monopoly;"
and a strenuous effort was made to enlist popular feeling in its behalf.
This cry, however, did not succeed.. Even the city of London, which had
before returned four Liberals, now returned only two, which were coupled
with two Conservatives. As for the elections, in the counties they went
everywhere against the ministry: and in the towns and manufacturing
districts the cry of "Low wages!" was raised against that of "Cheap
bread!" with considerable effect. In a word, the returns proved more
favourable to the Conservative party than the most sanguine among them
had anticipated; and it appeared certain that Sir Robert Peel would
command a stronger and more efficient majority than had supported any
minister for a long period.


MEETING OF THE NEW HOUSE OF COMMONS, ETC.

The new session of parliament was opened by commission on the 19th of
August, and the speech was read by the lord-chancellor on the 24th of
the same month. The speech referred to a treaty concluded on the 15th of
July, 1840, between her majesty and the Emperor of Austria, the King of
Prussia, the Emperor of Russia, and the Sultan, the objects of which,
it was said, had been fully accomplished. The speech also informed the
house that her majesty had ordered the return of her minister to the
court of Persia, and announced that the differences which had arisen
between Spain and Portugal about the execution of a treaty concluded
by those powers in 1835, for regulating the navigation of the Douro had
been amicably adjusted. In reference to the disputes with China, a hope
was expressed that the emperor would see the justice of the demands
which her majesty's plenipotentiaries had been recently instructed to
make. The speech concluded thus:--"My lords and gentlemen,--We are more
especially commanded to declare to you that the extraordinary
expenses which the events in Canada, China, and the Mediterranean have
occasioned, and the necessity of maintaining a force adequate to the
protection of our extensive possessions, have made it necessary to
consider the means of increasing the public revenue. Her majesty
is anxious that this object should be effected in the manner least
burdensome to her people: and it has appeared to her majesty, after
full deliberation, that you may at this juncture properly direct your
attention to the revision of duties affecting the productions of foreign
countries. It will be for you to consider whether some of these duties
are not so trifling in amount as to be unproductive to the revenue,
while they are vexatious to commerce. You may further examine whether
the principle of protection upon which others of these duties are
founded be not carried to an extent injurious alike to the income of the
state and the interests of the people. Her majesty is desirous that you
should consider the laws which regulate the trade in corn. It will be
for you to determine whether these laws do not aggravate the natural
fluctuation of supply--whether they do not embarrass trade, derange the
currency, and by their operation diminish the comfort and increase the
privations of the great body of the community." In the house of lords
the address was moved by Earl Spencer, and seconded by the Marquess of
Clanricarde, both of whom in their speeches vindicated the conduct of
government, and advocated the repeal of the corn-laws. The address was
opposed by the Earl of Ripon, who arraigned government on many points,
more especially on their financial operations. He concluded a long and
able speech by proposing as an amendment, that an address be presented
to her majesty, "humbly to represent to her majesty, that we observe
with great concern that the public expenditure has of late, in each of
several years, exceeded the annual income, and that we are convinced of
the necessity of adopting measures for the purpose of remedying so
great an evil: To assure her majesty that we are deeply sensible of
the importance of those considerations, to which her majesty has been
graciously pleased to direct our attention in reference to the commerce
and revenue of the country, and to the laws which regulate the trade in
corn: That in deciding the course which it may be advisable to pursue
with reference to such matters, it will be our earnest desire to consult
the interest and promote the welfare of all classes of her majesty's
subjects: That we feel it, however, to be our duty humbly to submit
to her majesty that it is essential to the satisfactory results of our
deliberations upon these and other matters of public concern that her
majesty's government should possess the confidence of this house and
of the country; and respectfully to represent to her majesty that that
confidence is not reposed in the present advisers of her majesty: To
assure her majesty that in the gracious expression of her majesty's deep
sympathy with those of her subjects who are now suffering from distress
and want of employment, we recognise an additional proof of her
majesty's tender regard for the welfare of her subjects; and that we
cordially join in the prayer of her majesty that all our deliberations
may be guided by wisdom, and may conduce to the happiness of her
people." Viscount Melbourne expressed himself to the effect that
the Earl of Ripon's motion came like a thunder-clap upon him. He was
ignorant that there existed in the house the spirit on which the motion
seemed to proceed. The Duke of Wellington, after alluding to the various
allegations brought against government by the Earl of Ripon, said that
they sufficiently justified him in calling on that house to vote
against the address. He continued to animadvert upon, and to condemn the
introduction of her majesty's name in the royal speech, in such a way
as to give the country to believe that those who opposed the proposed
alterations in commerce opposed her majesty. At the same time the
noble duke passed a warm eulogium upon the general conduct of Viscount
Melbourne in his relation to the crown, frankly admitting that the noble
viscount had rendered the greatest possible service to her majesty, in
making her acquainted with the mode and policy of the government of this
country; initiating her into the laws and spirit of the constitution;
and teaching her to preside over the destinies of the empire of Great
Britain. His grace concluded by making some severe remarks on the
budget, about which so much had been said; and by expressing himself to
be still adverse to any alteration in the corn-laws. The noble duke was
followed by the Duke of Richmond, who, in a short speech, advocated the
interests of the agriculturists. The Marquess of Lans-downe said that
the government had not proposed a repeal of the corn laws _in toto_, as
the Duke of Richmond seemed to have understood: they simply contemplated
some change. After a few words from the Earl of Coventry and the
Marquess of Northampton, in support of the amendment, and from Lord
Brougham, partly in favour of the address, and partly condemnatory of
the measures of government, their lordships divided on the original
question, when there appeared for it only ninety-six, and against it one
hundred and sixty-eight; so that ministers were left in a minority of
seventy-two.

In the commons the first business performed was the election of a
speaker, and Mr. Shaw Lefevre was re-elected by the consent of all
parties. The house then adjourned; after which several days were
consumed in swearing in members. This being done, the speaker having
read from the chair the speech delivered in the other house by the
lords-commissioners, an address was moved in consonance with it by Mr.
Mark Phillips, and seconded by Mr. John Dundas. An amendment was moved
by Mr. J. S. Wortley, which expressed the regret of the house at the
recent increase of expenditure; its determination to provide for that
increase; its earnest desire to promote the welfare of her majesty's
subjects; and respectfully to represent to her majesty the necessity
that her ministers should enjoy the confidence of the country, which the
present administration did not possess. This amendment was seconded
by Lord Bruce; and a long discussion followed, in which many members
expressed their views. The result showed that ministers were even
deserted by some of their tried friends: even Mr. Roebuck declared that
he should vote in favour of the amendment. On this occasion Mr. Cobden,
who had been elected in the new parliament, and who was destined to be
the greatest antagonist of the corn-laws that had ever appeared in the
house of commons, came forward to express his views on the subject. On
a division the amendment was carried by a majority of three hundred and
sixty, against two hundred and sixty-nine. When the house of commons
met for the purpose of receiving the report on the amended address,
Mr. Sharman Crawford proposed another amendment, to the effect that the
house would feel it their duty so to extend the suffrage as to give
to the working classes their just weight in legislation; but this was
negatived by an overwhelming majority.


RESIGNATION OF MINISTERS.--SIR ROBERT PEEL'S ADMINISTRATION.

At the next meeting of the house of commons, Lord Marcus Hill appeared
at the bar, and read this answer to the address:--"It is the greatest
satisfaction to me to find that the house of commons are deeply sensible
of the importance of those considerations to which I directed their
attention in reference to the commerce and revenue of the country, and
the laws which regulate the trade in corn; and that, in deciding on the
course which it may be desirable to pursue, it will be their earnest
desire to consult the welfare of all classes of my subjects. Ever
anxious to listen to the advice of my parliament, I will take immediate
measures for the formation of a new administration." The division on Mr.
J. S. Wortley's amendment had so emphatically declared the sense of the
new house of commons upon the continuance of the Whig government,
that no other course remained to them but retirement from office.
Accordingly, on the 30th of August, Viscount Melbourne in the lords,
and Lord John Russell in the commons, intimated that they and their
colleagues had resigned, and that they only continued to hold their
respective offices till their successors were appointed. The task of
forming a new government was assigned by the queen to Sir Robert Peel,
and this time he was successful; the change embracing the queen's
household. The following were the principal members of the new
administration:--the Duke of Wellington was leader in the lords; Sir
Robert Peel himself was first lord of the treasury; Lord Lyndhurst
became lord-chancellor; the honourable H. Goulburn, chancellor of the
exchequer; Lord Wharncliffe, president of the council; the Duke of
Buckingham, privy-seal; Sir James Graham, home-secretary; Earl of
Aberdeen, foreign secretary; Lord Stanley, colonial secretary; Earl of
Haddington, first lord of the admiralty; Lord Ellenborough, president
of the board of control; Earl of Ripon, president of the board of trade;
Sir H. Hardinge, secretary-at-war; Sir E. Knatchbull, treasurer of the
navy and paymaster of the forces; and Lord Lowther, postmaster-general.
After the new government was formed, writs were moved for in the commons
for various places, in consequence of the acceptance of office of those
members who belonged to that house; and the house afterwards adjourned
until the 16th of September.


STATEMENT OF SIR ROBERT PEEL AS TO HIS INTENDED COURSE OF PROCEEDING,
ETC.

The re-election of the members of government took place without the loss
of a seat, and the house of commons reassembled on the day appointed.
Business was commenced by Sir Robert Peel moving _pro forma_ for a copy
of the letter of the first commissioners of woods and forests, on the
subject of warming and ventilating the new houses of parliament. The
right honourable baronet on this occasion stated his intentions as to
the course to be pursued with respect to the public business of the
country.


FINANCIAL STATEMENT.

Mr. Goulburn brought forward his financial statement in a committee
of ways and means on the 27th of September. He first stated what was
wanted, showing that the house was called on to provide for a deficiency
of £2,467,432. This sum, he said, did not differ materially from the
deficiency anticipated by his predecessor; and to meet it he proposed
funding a portion of the unfunded debt. He had, indeed, already made
proposals to the public, which, he said, had been completely successful;
the subscription he had obtained would enable him to give the requisite
relief. The sum subscribed exceeded £3,500,000; and the terms he had
offered were not higher than those offered by Mr. Spring Rice in 1838.
The bonus would be found to be about 18s. 10d. per cent. With respect to
the requisite supply, immediate taxation was out of the question; and he
should therefore propose a mode of supply, which as a permanent resource
he should deprecate, by an issue of exchequer-bills or a sale of stock,
at the option of government. He suggested this alternative method,
in order that the market might not be presently flooded again with a
quantity of exchequer-bills equal to that from which it had just been
relieved. Mr. Goulburn concluded by moving a resolution in accordance
with the plan which he had explained, for funding the recent
subscriptions in three per cent, consols. This proposition met with
considerable opposition from Mr. Baring and other members; but the
resolutions necessary for carrying it out were, nevertheless, passed
without a division.


POOR LAWS, ETC.

The only measures of importance brought forward this session, after the
supplies had been granted, were the bill for the better administration
of justice in the court of Chancery, and the poor-law commission
continuance bill. The former of these measures was merely a revival of
that which was thrown up by the former government, as seen in a previous
page; and it now quickly passed both houses, and received the royal
assent. The latter subject gave rise to more opposition and debate.
It was brought forward by Sir Robert Peel on the 21st of September,
by moving for leave to bring in a bill to continue the office of
commissioners for six months only; namely, till 31st July, 1842. In the
course of the discussion, Mr. Lefroy bore testimony to the generally
successful working of the Irish poor-law. On the house going into
committee, Mr. R. Yorke moved an instruction to the committee, to
the effect that the poor-law commissioners should not be empowered to
enforce separation between man and wife, except where application for
relief arose from idleness, vice, or crime. The honourable member quoted
the injunction of Scripture against separating those whom God had joined
together, and called on members on the ministerial side to redeem the
pledges they had given to their constituents. After some discussion,
this instruction was negatived.

The bill went through the committee and passed.

Parliament was prorogued by lords-commissioners on the 7th of October.


EAST INDIA AFFAIRS, ETC.

It has been seen in the last chapter that Dost Mohammed was still in
arms. About the close of the last year his army was completely routed
at Bamean by Brigadier Dennie, and he then fled across the Hindoo
Koosh into the Khoohun territory. In the mean time, Sir Robert Sale was
employed in reducing the strongholds of the partizans of the ex-king in
Kohistan; a work in which he experienced considerable difficulty, owing
to the determined manner in which the forts were defended. Dost Mohammed
subsequently summoned his son Afzul Khan to join him, and he moved
from the Nijrow towards the Ghorebund Pass, leading into the Kohistan
valley, to effect the junction. Sir Robert Sale, hearing of this
movement, resolved to frustrate its object, and breaking up his camp at
Bolan, proceeded towards Purwau. At Purwau a battle took place, and Dost
Mohammed again received a signal defeat. His soldiers refused to make
any further efforts against the British forces, and Dost Mohammed threw
himself upon the generosity of his foes, surrendering himself to
Sir William M'Naghten on the 3rd of November. His confidence was not
misplaced; he was permitted to take up his residence at Loodianah, and a
yearly pension of three lacs of rupees (£30,000) was granted to him. His
treatment was so generous that he wrote to his three sons, who were
in different parts of the country, to follow his example, and deliver
themselves up to the British. During the remainder of this year
Afghanistan remained comparatively tranquil; nothing occurred of a
hostile nature except the capture of the old fort of Khelat-i-Ghilzee by
Major Lynch, on which occasion the garrison was destroyed by a mistake,
an event which caused great commotion among the whole of the Ghilzee
tribe, as will be seen in a future page. It may be mentioned that in
Scinde, during this year, the fortress of Khelat, which had again
fallen into the hands of the enemy, was recaptured, and the whole of the
Punjaub fell into a state of disorganization; but the British were not
called upon to interfere in the internal dissensions which shook the
throne, so long and ably occupied by our steadfast ally, Runjeet Sing,
whose death gave rise to the commotions.

In China, after Chusan fell into our hands. Admiral Elliot, accompanied
by Captain Elliot, sailed to the Pe-che-lee harbour, where he arrived
on the 9 th of August, 1840. On the 30th of that month an interview took
place between Captain Elliot and Keshen, the-imperial commissioner, the
third man in the empire, and the negociations were protracted until the
15th of September, on which clay the admiral sailed away from the Peho.
When the squadron returned to Chusan, it was discovered that Admiral
Elliot had consented to transfer the negociations from the Pe-che-lee
to Canton, where all details were to be settled, and where the Chinese
government promised to arrange everything to the satisfaction of the
British. Negociations were carried on; but in the meantime Keshen was
busily employed in erecting new batteries at the Bogue, barricading
the bars in the rivers by sinking boats laden with stones, throwing up
breast-works near Canton, and levying troops. It was so evident that the
Chinese commissioner was insincere, that hostilities recommenced on the
7th of January. Two of the Bogue forts were reduced, and Keshen then
offered to adjust matters without delay. These arrangements were made
between Captain Elliot and the imperial commissioner:--"1. The cession
of the harbour and island of Hong-Kong to the British crown. All just
charges and duties to the empire upon the commerce carried on there to
be paid as if the trade were conducted at Wham-poa. 2. An indemnity to
the British government of 6,000,000 of dollars, 1,000,000 payable at
once, and the remainder in equal annual instalments, ending in 1846.
3. Direct official intercourse between the two countries upon an equal
footing. 4. The trade of the port of Canton to be opened within ten days
after the Chinese new year (the 2nd of February), and to be carried
on at Whampoa till further arrangements are practicable at the new
settlement. Details to remain matter of negociation." The terms of this
convention were much censured; and Lord John Russell declared in the
house of commons, on the 6th of May, that they were not approved of by
her majesty's government; that Captain Elliot had been recalled; and
that Sir Henry Pottinger had been appointed plenipotentiary in his
stead. In the meantime it had become evident that the Chinese had no
intention of fulfilling these engagements. On the morning of the 19th of
February, a hostile shot was fired at the boat of the _Nemesis_ steamer
from North Wangtong, and hostilities again commenced. The British
squadron now attacked the Anunghoy batteries, which were soon silenced,
and they then landed, and both the ships and land troops proceeded
towards Canton. The British colours were soon hoisted on Howqua's fort;
and while Sir George Brewer and General Gough were preparing to attack
those forts which still remained between them and Canton, the Kwang-chow
Foo, as prefect, accompanied by the Hong merchants, came down and
admitted that Keshen had been degraded, and that no commissioner had yet
arrived to treat for peace, or make any new arrangements. Keshen had, it
appeared, delayed the execution of the treaty until he could obtain the
emperor's confirmation of it. The emperor, however, looking upon the
English "as dogs and sheep in their dispositions," and considering that
"both gods and men were indignant at their conduct, refused to ratify
a treaty with them; and Keshen was ordered to be delivered over to the
board of punishment." The Chinese again contemplated hostilities, and in
the month of May the British commanders again determined to advance upon
Canton. All the surrounding forts were captured, and it was determined
that the city should be taken by assault; but a flag of truce was
hoisted on the walls, and Captain Elliot again requested Sir H. Gough
to suspend hostilities. He was employed, he said, in a settlement of
the difficulties upon the following conditions:--"1. The imperial
commissioner, and all the troops, other than those of the province, to
quit the city within six days, and to remove to a distance exceeding
sixty miles. 2. 6,000,000 dollars to be paid in one week for the use
of the crown of England; 1,000,000 dollars payable before to-morrow at
sun-set. 3. British troops to remain in their actual positions till the
whole sum be paid. No additional preparations on either side; but all
British troops and ships of war to return without the Bocca Tigris as
soon as the whole be paid. Quang-tong also to be evacuated; but not
to be re-armed by the Chinese government till all the difficulties are
adjusted between the two governments. 4. The loss occasioned by the
burning of the Spanish brig, _Bilbaino_, and all losses occasioned
by the destruction of the factories, to be paid within one week." In
consequence of this arrangement, the British flag was lowered in the
various captured forts, and the troops inarched out, and returned to
Tsing-hae. The 6,000,000 of dollars amounted to about £120,000, and
Captain Elliot appropriated about half that sum to reimburse those who
had surrendered their opium-chests to him at the commencement of the
disturbances; but this payment was subsequently disallowed by the
British government. Matters were at this point, when, on the 9th of
August, Sir Henry Pottinger, the new plenipotentiary, arrived in the
Canton waters, accompanied by Sir William Parker, who assumed a command
of the fleet in the Chinese seas. Having published a copy of his
credentials, authorizing him to negociate and conclude with the minister
vested with similar power and authority on the part of the Emperor of
China, any treaty or agreement for the arrangement of the differences
now subsisting between Great Britain and China; and having warned all
her majesty's subjects and foreigners against putting themselves in the
power of the Chinese authorities, during the anomalous and unsettled
state of our relations with the emperor, Sir Henry Pottinger embarked
for Hong-Kong, whither Sir William Parker had preceded him. The
superseded plenipotentiary, Captain Elliot, left China on the 24th of
August.


STATE OF THE CONTINENT.

An important treaty was signed in London in December, between France,
Austria, Prussia, Russia, and Great Britain, whereby the former powers
agreed to adopt the English laws relating to the slave-trade. Spain
still remained in a state of insecurity. A quarrel took place between
that country and Portugal, relative to the navigation of the Douro, and
both countries prepared for war; but the question was finally settled
without an appeal to arms. Later in the year there was an insurrection
at Pampeluna and Vittoria, in behalf of the queen-mother, and a
desperate attempt was made to seize the queen in the palace at Madrid,
but, through the energetic measures of Espartero, the insurrection was
suppressed: Don Diego Leon, one of its leaders, was tried and executed.
During this year the long agitated question of the East rapidly
approached a settlement. On the 11th of January. Mehemet Ali gave up the
whole of the Turkish fleet; and about the same time a finnan was
sent from Constantinople, whereby the sultan accorded to Mehemet the
hereditary possession of Egypt. At the same time also Ibrahim Pacha
was directed by his father to evacuate Syria. Several causes, however,
combined against the complete restoration of peace between the sultan
and the pacha; and the year closed before negociations were concluded.


CHAPTER LIII.

{VICTORIA 1842--1843}

     Meeting of Parliament..... Debate on the Corn-Laws:
     Proposition of Ministers on the subject of the Corn-
     Laws..... Financial Measures; Income-Tax Bill, &c--New
     Tariff..... Mr. Villiers's Motion on the Corn Laws..... The
     Great Chartist Petition..... Bill for Restraining the
     Employment of Women and Children in Mines and
     Collieries..... Bribery at Elections..... Law Reforms.....
     Bill for the Protection of the Royal Person..... Copyright
     Act..... Poor Law Amendment Bill..... Prorogation  of
     Parliament..... East India Affairs, &c.


MEETING OF PARLIAMENT.

{A.D. 1842}

Parliament re-assembled on the 3rd of February. The session was opened
under circumstances of unusual splendour, occasioned by the presence
of the King of Prussia, who had arrived in England, in order to stand
sponsor at the christening of the infant Prince of Wales. Her majesty
again addressed lier parliament in a speech of considerable length, and
which embraced a variety of interesting and important topics. The chief
of these were, the birth of an heir to the throne, the treaty which had
been concluded with the other great powers of Europe for the suppression
of the slave-trade: the pending negociations with China; the restoration
of friendly intercourse with Persia; and a treaty which had been
concluded with the Emperors of Austria and Russia, and the Kings of
France and Prussia, having for its object the security of the Turkish
empire, and the maintenance of the general tranquillity. In conclusion,
her majesty recommended attention to the state of the finances and
expenditure of the country; urged the consideration of the corn-laws;
stated that measures would be submitted for the amendment of the law
of bankruptcy; and expressed regret at the continued distress in the
manufacturing districts.

In the house of commons, on the 4th of February, Sir Robert Peel gave
notice that he would, on the 9th, move that the liouse resolve itself
into a committee of the whole house, to take into consideration the laws
which affect the importation of corn. The address was agreed to _nem.
con_.


DEBATE ON THE CORN-LAWS--PROPOSITION OF MINISTERS ON THE SUBJECT.

On the 9th of February, the day on which Sir Robert Peel had announced
he would develop the ministerial plan for the alteration of the
corn-laws, extraordinary interest was exhibited both in and out of the
house of commons. Every avenue of the house was thronged at an early
hour by persons eager to obtain admission; and when the doors were
opened every seat in the strangers' gallery was instantly occupied. A
number of the anti-corn-law delegates attempted to station themselves in
the lobby; but being prevented by the police they stationed themselves
outside the house, where they saluted the members as they passed with
the cries of "No sliding-scale!" "Total repeal!" "Fixed duty!" &c.
Shortly after five o'clock Sir Robert Peel moved: "That this house
resolve itself into a committee, to consider the trade in corn." He then
requested that the clerk of the house should read that portion of her
majesty's speech which related to that subject. This being done, he
observed that it was difficult to discuss this subject without making
statements or admissions which would be seized upon by his opponents:
but that he trusted to the reason, moderation, and judgment of
parliament. The right honourable baronet then proceeded to state that
he would not excite a hope that his measure would tend immediately to
mitigate the existing commercial distress, and to enumerate the causes
which had given rise to that distress. He then adverted to the various
opinions obtained in the country as to a change of the corn-laws. Some
opposed, he said, all change; others demanded immediate and instant
repeal; and others required some modification. His own opinion was,
that a total repeal of the corn-laws would aggravate the manufacturing
distress; the prosperity of the two classes being identical. There were
advantages in a fixed duty which did not apply to a variable duty; but
the objection to the principle of imposing any duty on corn was equally
applicable to both. Nor could, he argued, a fixed duty be permanent: he
did not think they could impose any amount of fixed duty sufficient for
the protection of agriculture in years of average supply, which
they could determinately and fixedly impose in times of distress and
scarcity. Sir Robert Peel next entered into a variety of arguments to
show that this country, in ordinary years, was able to supply its own
population. From the arguments he used he came to the conclusion that it
was not advisable for parliament to alter the principle of the existing
law; and the alteration which he would therefore propose went on the
principle of retaining a duty on corn, varying inversely with the
price of corn in the home market. He continued by observing that the
maintenance of that principle involved the maintenance of a system of
averages; and after expressing doubts whether there had not been
much exaggeration as to the frauds and combinations to influence
the averages, he thus stated the proposals of government respecting
them:--"We shall propose to take the averages in the present mode, from
the factor, the miller, or the purchaser. We shall propose that the duty
of collecting the returns shall devolve on the excise. The excise is
perfectly competent to this duty; it has officers employed in each
market-town fully competent for the discharge of this duty by having
greater duties to perform, and who will be able at a comparatively
small increase of expense to fulfil this employment; and by their
intelligence, their business habits, and the responsibility which
attaches to them as public officers, they will afford far greater
security against fraud than can be obtained by intrusting this duty to
private individuals." After stating that the averages were to be taken
in all the principal corn-markets, Sir Robert stated the amount of
protection to be given to the produce of this country. Having shown how
the duty varied under the existing laws, and that they induced fraud,
and having made some remarks on the term "remunerating price," he thus
described his new scale:--"We propose that when corn is at 50s. and
under 51s. in price, a duty of 20s. shall be taken; but that in no case
shall that duty be exceeded. We propose that when the price is 51s. and
under 52s., the duty shall be 19s.; and after this we propose that there
shall be what I should term a rest in the scale. That at the next items
of price the duty should be uniform. Thus it would be: When the price is
52s. and under 53s. and 54s., 18s.; and when 54s. and under 55s., still
18s. When the price is 55s. and under 56s., we propose that the duty be
17s.; when 56s. and under 57s., that it shall be 16s.; and when 57s. and
under 58s., that it shall be 15s.; and when 58s. and under 59s.. that it
shall be 14s.; and when 59s. and under 60s., that it shall be 13s.; when
60s. and under 61s., that it shall be 12s.; when 61s. and under 62s.,
that it shall be lis.; when 62s, and under 63s., that it shall be 10s.;
when 63s. and under 64s., that it shall be 9s.; when 64s. and under
65s., that it shall be 8s.; and when 65s. and under 66s., that it shall
be 7s. At the three next items of price I propose another rest in the
scale similar to the former. I should propose on the next three a duty
of 6s., that is to say, when the price is 66s. and under 67s., when it
is 67s. and under 68s., and when it is 68s. and under 69s. In each of
these cases the duty would be 6s. When the price is 69s. and under 70s.,
I propose a duty of 5s.; when 70s. and under 71s., a duty of 4s.; when
71s. and under 72s., a duty of 3s.; when 72s. and under 73s. a duty of
2s.; and when 73s. and under 74s., a duty of Is. the quarter. When that
price is arrived at, I propose that the duty should altogether cease;
the sum of the proposition, then, is this, that when corn in the British
market is under the price of 51s. the quarter, a duty of 20s. shall be
levied, which duty shall never be exceeded, for I am quite satisfied
that it is useless to take any greater amount of duty." With respect to
other grain than wheat, Sir Robert Peel proposed to adopt the proportion
of value and duty which he found in the present law. "Colonial wheat and
flour," he continued, "shall be imported at a duty of 5s. whenever the
price of British wheat is below 67s.; that when the price of British
wheat exceeds 67s. it shall then be admissible at a duty of 6d. I
propose to give the same advantage to colonial wheat, respecting
the reduction of prices at which it shall be admissible, as is given to
other descriptions of wheat. But considering that the sudden drop in
the prices from 5s. to 6d., on account of the difference of Is. in the
price, is at variance with the principle of the law, which seeks to
establish as equable and uniform a reduction of duty as possible, we
propose to make this arrangement respecting colonial wheat--that when
the price of British wheat is under 55s., the duty upon every quarter of
British colonial wheat shall be 5s.; that when at 55s. and under 56s.,
it shall be 4s.; and when at 56s. and under 57s., it shall be 3s.; and
when at 58s. and upwards it shall be Is., thus taking away that sudden
fall in the amount of duty, levied upon colonial wheat, which takes
place under the existing law; but giving the colonial wheat that
advantage in the reduction of the price which is given to other
descriptions of wheat." Sir Robert Peel finally thus recapitulated the
reduction which his new scale would effect:--"When corn is 59s. and
under 60s., the duty I propose is 13s. When the price of com is at 50s.,
the existing duty is 36s. 8d., increasing as the price falls; instead of
which I propose, when corn is at 50s., that the duty shall be only 20s.,
and that the duty shall in no case be exceeded. At 56s., the existing
duty is 30s. 8d.; the duty I propose at that price is 16s. At 60a., the
existing duty is 26s. 8d., the duty I propose at that price is 12s. At
63s., the existing duty is 23s. 8d.; the duty I propose is 9s. At 64s.,
the existing duty is 22s. 8d.; the duty I propose is 8s. At 70s., the
existing duty is 10s. 8d.; the duty I propose is 5s. Therefore it is
impossible to deny, in comparing the duty which I propose with that
which exists at present, that it will cause a very considerable decrease
of the protection which the present duty affords to the home grower, a
decrease, however, which, in my opinion, can be made consistently with
justice to all the interests concerned." In conclusion, Sir Robert Peel
disclaimed the idea of legislating in favour of particular interests,
and expressed his conviction that the present was a favourable time
for the settlement of the question. After a few words from Lord John
Russell, and a brief reply from Sir Robert Peel, the house adjourned. On
the following day Lord John Russell gave notice that he should, on the
ensuing Monday, move a resolution condemnatory of a sliding-scale. The
resolution was couched in these terms:--"That this house, considering
the evils which have been caused by the present corn-laws, and
especially by the fluctuations of the graduated or sliding-scale, is
not prepared to adopt the measure of her majesty's government, which is
founded on the same principle, and is likely to be attended by the same
results." Mr. Villiers next announced that, on going into committee, he
should take the sense of the house on the policy of imposing any duty
whatever on foreign corn or food imported into this country. A third
notice was given by Mr. Christopher that he should move in committee a
scale of wheat duties, instead of Sir Robert Peel's, imposing a maximum
duty of 25s. when the price is 50s., and a minimum duty of Is. when
the price is 73s., the duty falling by Is., as the price rises by Is.;
except that at the rise of price from 59s. to 60s., the duty falls by
2s. The debate commenced on the 14th, when Sir Robert Peel moved that
the speaker do leave the chair, in order to a committee of the whole
house on the corn-laws. Lord John Russell then brought forward
his amendment, and stated his objections to the sliding-seale. He
remarked:--"The first objection I have to a sliding-scale, is, that a
high, I would say a prohibitory duty, always forms part of it. I could
understand a scale not exceeding 10s. or 12s., and going down to 4s.,
to 3s., or to Is.; but I find that whenever gentlemen speak of a
sliding-scale, it is of such a nature as to contain a prohibitory duty.
The first duty, when the price is at 50s., and under 51s., is 20s.;
and I shall now proceed to show that that is a prohibitory duty. I
have looked over the papers containing the latest information. From the
information obtained by Mr. Meek, who was sent to the north of Europe
expressly to collect information on the subject, it appears that the
original price of Dantzie wheat, when brought from the interior of
the country, is 35s.; that the charges, which seem to satisfy that
gentleman's mind amount in all to 10s. 6d.; thus making the price at
which it could be sold in England in ordinary years 45s. 6d. If you add
to that the proposed duty of 20s., you make the entire price of Dantzie
wheat, 65s. 6d., when the price at home, is 50s.; showing of course that
20s. amounts to a prohibitory duty. In the same way at Odessa, as stated
in the consul's returns, the price would be 26s.; adding to which 10s.
for freight, and some further charges, which cannot be taken or less
than 5s., as on the former occasions, and adding then the proposed
duty of 20s., you would have the price up to 61s-, without counting the
profit of the merchant who had to deal with this corn; and therefore,
though you may say that you have reduced the duty to 20s., to 19s., and
to 18s., yet in all three instances it can be shown that the duty is
prohibitory; and that when the price is at 55s. or 56s., the price at
which the right honourable gentleman said it would please him to see it,
nobody can tell why, there would then be a prohibitory duty upon
foreign corn." Lord John Russell concluded by moving his amendment. The
amendment was opposed by Mr. E. Gladstone, who thought that some of Lord
John Russell's opinions ought to have led him to support the government.
The debate which followed lasted three nights, and the principal
speakers were, on the ministerial side, Lord Sandon, Sir J. Graham and
E. Knatchbull, and Messrs. Childers, Ormsby Gore, and B. Ferrand; and in
favour of the amendment, Lord Worsley, and Messrs. C Wood, Labouchere,
Ward, E. Buller, and Roebuck. The greater part of the speeches delivered
consisted of recapitulations and reproductions of the reasonings and
statements used by the leaders of either party. On a division the
amendment was rejected by a majority of three hundred and forty-nine
against two hundred and twenty-six. The house having thus pronounced in
favour of the principle of a sliding-scale of corn-duties, it might have
seemed illogical and superfluous afterwards to discuss a proposition
of which the affirmative had been involved in the preceding decision;
namely, whether corn should be subjected to any duties at all. Nothing
daunted, however, Mr. Villiers brought forward his intended motion to
that effect; a motion which, after five nights' debate, was rejected by
a majority of three hundred and ninety-three against three hundred and
three. Subsequently Mr. Christopher brought forward his scale of duties
as a substitute for those of Sir Robert Peel; but the original
proposition was carried by an equally overwhelming majority. In
committee various amendments were proposed, but they were all rejected
or withdrawn, and the bill was, on the 5th of April, read a third time,
and passed.

The second reading of the corn-law bill was moved in the house of lords,
on the 18th of April, by the Earl of Ripon. Lord Brougham rose and
moved the total and absolute repeal of the duty on foreign corn; but
his amendment was rejected by an overwhelming majority. On the following
day, on the motion to go into committee, Viscount Melbourne moved,
"That it is the opinion of this house that a fixed duty upon the
importation of foreign corn and flour would be more advantageous to
trade and more conducive to the general welfare of all classes of the
people than a graduated duty, varying with the average of prices in
the markets of this country." This proposition gave rise to a lengthy
discussion; but it was rejected by a majority of one hundred and
seventeen against forty-nine. Subsequently Lord Brougham moved these
resolutions:--"That no duty ought to be imposed upon the importation of
foreign corn, for the purpose of protecting the agriculturist, by taxing
the introduction of food. That no duty ought to be imposed upon the
importation of foreign corn, for the purpose of regulating trade, by
taxing the introduction of food. That no duty ought to be imposed upon
the importation of foreign corn, for the purpose of raising the revenue,
by taxing the introduction of food." These resolutions were rejected, as
were others moved by Earl Stanhope, Lord Beaumont, and Lord Mountcashel,
and the bill passed in its original state.


FINANCIAL MEASURES--INCOME-TAX BILL, ETC.

On the accession of Sir Robert Peel to office he was embarrassed with
great financial difficulties. For the ensuing year he had to deal with
a deficiency of £2,570,000; with contingencies in China and India of
uncertain amount. The present juncture, indeed, demanded a remedial
measure of a bold and comprehensive character, and Sir Robert did
not fail to bring forward such a measure. On the 11th of March, in a
committee of ways and means, the right honourable baronet said, that for
the year ending April, 1843, the estimated revenue would be £43,350,000,
and the estimated expenditure £50,819,000, leaving a deficiency of
£2,469,000. With the contingencies in India and China, indeed, he
calculated that the deficit, in the two years ending May next, would not
be less than £4,700,000. How, he asked, were these deficiencies to be
met? Should the system of loans and exchequer-bills be continued? Was
there the prospect of any considerable reduction in expenditure? Was the
present deficiency a casual one? Should he impose a tax on articles of
consumption and the necessaries of life? Should he revive old taxes?
Should he go back to the post-office? or revive the taxes upon salt,
leather, or wool? Finally, should he resort to locomotion for the
purposes of taxation? All these expedients Sir Robert repudiated; and
he fixed upon one which, while it justly gave offence to a large body
of the people, has proved to fully answer the end for which it was
designed. This was an imposition of an income-tax of sevenpence in the
pound upon all incomes from £150 and upwards, and in which was included
not only landed but funded property, whether in the hands of British
subjects or of foreigners. He estimated the assessable yearly value
of the land at £39,400,000; of houses, at £25,000,000; and of tithes,
shares in railways and mines, and other similar property, at £8,400,000:
total, £72,800,000. From this he would deduct one-fourth for the
exemption which he proposed to give to all incomes under £150, and
then the tax thus far would give him £160,000. The occupiers of land,
assessed at half their rent, would yield £120,000. Next came funded
property. The dividend paid in 1841 was £29,400,000, from which he would
deduct £1,000,000 in respect of savings' banks; but he added upon
bank, foreign, and other stocks £1,500,000, making a total of almost
£30,000,000, from which, deducting one-fourth for incomes under £150
a year, he would derive £646,000. Sir Robert Peel next proceeded to
incomes of trades and professions, from which he expected to obtain
£1,253,000; and he then stated that from the incomes of public officers
he calculated upon £150,000. The total would be £3,771,000. With respect
to the duration of this impost, he said, that government might probably
require it for five years; but he would in the first instance propose
its continuance for three years. In case of war he should deem it
reasonable that Ireland should bear her proportion of this tax; but
during peace, and for a limited period, he should prefer to raise the
quota of that country by other means. He proposed, therefore, a duty of
one shilling per gallon upon spirits; the equalization of the stamp-duty
with that of England; and a tax of four shillings upon coal exported
in British vessels from this country. The aggregate revenue from
these sources and the income-tax in England would be about £4,380,000;
constituting a considerable surplus, after covering the deficiency on
the votes of annual expenditure. This surplus Sir Robert Peel proposed
to apply in relaxing the commercial tariff. The duties on raw materials
were in no case to exceed five per cent.; the duties upon articles
partially manufactured were to be diminished, the highest being twelve
per cent.; and upon complete manufactures no duty was to be imposed
higher than twenty per cent. He laid upon the table this amended scale
of duties, which had been distributed under twenty different heads; in
which, he said, would be found an abatement in about seven hundred and
fifty articles, and that on about four hundred and fifty the duty had
been left untouched. The total diminution of revenues occasioned by
the reductions was estimated by the right honourable baronet at about
£270,000. He regretted to say that upon sugar, ministers could not offer
any reduction; but with respect to coffee he proposed a reduction of
fourpence upon British, and eightpence upon foreign, which he calculated
would cause a loss of £171,000 to the revenue. On the subject of timber,
he said that his measure would be the reverse of that which was brought
forward by his predecessors in office; he would advise a great reduction
of duty, which would benefit all classes, from the agriculturist to the
shipbuilder. His propositions were to lower the duty on foreign timber
to twenty-five shillings a load, and to let in the timber of Canada at
a duty of one shilling a load; causing a probable loss to the revenue
of £600,000. There were yet two other reductions he had to propose:
one upon the export of certain British manufactures, and another upon
stage-coach duties. These two heads of reduction would produce a loss
of £70,000. On the whole these reductions, in addition to the excess
of expenditure, would increase the deficit to about £3,700,000; but the
estimated produce of the income-tax would not only cover this, but leave
more than £500,000 applicable to the contingencies of war in India and
China. Sir Robert Peel concluded with an earnest appeal to the house to
support the name which the English had inherited from their forefathers,
untarnished: and he then moved his first resolution, which was to
grant a duty on Irish spirits. No discussion followed Sir Robert Peel's
speech: the motion was agreed to, and the house resumed.

A few nights subsequently, Sir Robert Peel entered into an explanation
of the details of the measures he had announced; especially with respect
to the machinery by which the income-tax was to be collected. On the
motion to go into a committee of ways and means, Mr. T. Baring found
fault with Sir Robert Peel's calculations; and he was followed by Lord
Howick, who strongly censured the income-tax, and Lord John Russell, who
condemned the construction of tire tariff for not working out its own
principle, but sparing certain articles, as sugar, merely from fear
of the influential interests connected with them. After three several
motions by Messrs. Cobden, H. Berkeley, and Bernai, "That the chairman
do report progress," which were all negatived by large majorities, Sir
Robert Peel was compelled to defer the measure till the 4th of April.
The income-tax was resumed immediately after the Easter recess. The
first resolution, to impose a tax of sevenpence on every pound upon all
incomes, except the incomes of occupiers of land, was put and carried
without discussion. On the second resolution, however, imposing a tax on
the occupation of laud, calculated at the rate of threepence-halfpenny
in the pound on the yearly value being read, Lord John Russell pointed
out the operation' the tax might have in inducing landlords to split
their farms, so as to make the rental of each below the amount liable
to taxation; and gave notice that, on the report of the resolutions, he
should move this amendment:--"That it has been stated to this house,
on official authority, that the deficiency of income to meet the
expenditure of the country, may be estimated for the years ending the
5th day of April, 1842, at £2,350,000, and on the 5th day of April,
1843, at £2,569,000. That this house is fully sensible of the evil of a
continued inadequacy of the public income to meet the expenditure, and
will take measures for averting the same in future years. That, by
a judicious alteration of the duties on corn, by a reduction of the
prohibitory duty on foreign sugar, and an adjustment of the duties on
timber and coffee, the advantage of a moderate price to the community
may be combined with an increased revenue to the state. That, in
addition to those main articles of general consumption, the interests of
trade will be promoted by the repeal or reduction of various prohibitory
and differential duties, and that extended commerce will improve the
revenue, whilst it gives employment to industry. That the amount of
taxes taken off, or reduced, from the termination of the last war to the
end of the year 1836, exclusive of the tax on income, may be stated in
round numbers at £23,873,000. That the income-tax, having been first
imposed in a period of extreme emergency and during a most perilous war,
was repealed on the re-establishment of peace; and having been again
imposed on the renewal of war, was again repealed in 1816, on the
termination of hostilities. That considering the various means of
supplying the deficiency without enhancing the price of the necessaries
of life, or embarrassing trade, it is the opinion of this house that
the renewal of a tax, inquisitorial in its character, unequal in its
pressure, and which has hitherto been considered as the financial
reserve of the nation in time of war, is not called for by public
necessity, and is therefore not advisable." The second resolution
was then put and agreed to; as was also the third, equalizing certain
stamp-duties in Ireland with those of England; and the report was
ordered to be brought up. Lord John Russell's amendment came on for
discussion on the 8th of April, when his lordship, in a speech of great
length, charged the government with taking too gloomy a view of
affairs, comparing the present aspect of the finances with that when an
income-tax was formerly proposed. If new taxes must be resorted to, his
lordship recommended a tax on the succession to real property, or the
revival of some of the repealed assessed taxes. Mr. Goulburn defended
the ministerial policy; and Sir Robert Peel vindicated himself from the
charge of over-rating difficulties, and contrasted the state of finances
which the Melbourne government found on entering office in 1835, with
that which they left on their departure, in the British and Indian
empire. The debate on Lord John Russell's amendment lasted four nights,
most of the principal speakers on both sides taking part in it. On the
fourth night the house divided; when it was lost by a majority of three
hundred and eight against two hundred and two. The report was then
brought up and read, and leave given to bring in a bill founded on Sir
Robert Peel's resolutions. On the motion for the first reading of the
bill, on the 18th of April, Lord John Russell moved that it be read a
first time that day six months. A debate of considerable length ensued,
in which arguments urged for or against the measure were repeated;
after which the amendment was rejected by a majority of two hundred and
eighty-five to one hundred and eighty-eight. The bill was then read a
second time, and a few days afterwards the house went into committee.
In committee the first question discussed was the period when the tax
should commence; and the time finally decided was the 5th of April,
1842. The original proposition respecting schedule A was then affirmed,
as was also schedule B. On schedule C Mr. Ricardo moved an amendment
to exempt terminable annuities, and to subject them to special scales
according to their market value; but, on a division, the motion was
rejected by a large majority. In considering schedule D, which rendered
incomes derived from professions, trades, and employments liable to the
tax of sevenpence in the pound, Mr. Roebuck moved that it be fixed at
half that sum. This motion was warmly supported by several speakers; but
it was rejected, as was also another amendment to defeat this clause,
moved by Mr. Sharman Crawford. Sir Charles Napier made a proposition on
schedule E, to exempt officers in the army and navy from taxation; but
this was also rejected: and after this the progress of the bill went
on rapidly, more than eighty clauses being disposed of in one night's
debate. A second sufficed to get through the bill; amendments moved by
Messrs. Baring, Hume, and Benjamin Wood, being all rejected by large
majorities. On the third reading, Mr. Sharman Crawford moved an
amendment, to the effect that the present house of commons could not be
considered a fair representation of the people; and that therefore it
was unfit that any system of increased taxation should be imposed by
parliament until all just causes of complaint, with regard to the mode
of electing members, should be redressed. Lord John Russell himself
opposed this motion, and it was at once rejected; and after some further
discussion on the bill, it was read a third time by a majority of one
hundred and ninety-nine against sixty-nine. The bill then passed.


NEW TARIFF.

The question of the income-tax being thus settled, government proceeded
to carry into effect the other great branch in their financial
scheme--the alterations in the tariff or customs duties. A complete
copy of the tariff was placed in the hands of each member of parliament
previously to the 5th of May, on which day it was announced that it
would be moved to go into committee on this important subject. On
that day the proceedings in the house of commons, were commenced by an
elaborate preliminary statement on the part of the prime-minister, in
which he showed that the general object of the present government was to
simplify the existing law. Sir Robert Peel then went over in detail
some of the chief alterations proposed in duties on what is called raw
material. Among the articles under this denomination were clover-seed,
woods, ores, oils, extracts, and timbers, on all of which he proposed
to reduce the duties. On articles of foreign manufacture, Sir Robert
continued to explain that he proposed to levy an amount of duty,
generally speaking, not to exceed twenty per cent. He next proceeded
to combat the argument of his opponents, that he had begun at the wrong
end, that he should have reduced the duties on articles of provision,
and have dealt more largely with the corn-laws. Taking the whole tariff,
he contended that it would be seen that the cost of sustenance was
greatly reduced. At that moment, he said, under the old law the duty on
foreign wheat would have been 27s. a quarter; under the new law it
was 13s. Then again, beef, fresh or slightly salted, was absolutely
prohibited; but he proposed to admit it at 8s. a hundred-weight. He
further proposed to lower the duties on lard, hams, salmon, herrings,
hops, &c. Sir Robert then explained that in the amended tariff, on the
representation of straw-plait makers, the duty had been increased from
5s. to 7s 6d. in the pound; at the same time he showed that it would be
no protection to them, inasmuch as the article was of such a nature that
it could be easily smuggled into this country without detection. He then
endeavoured to convince those who feared the reduction of duties on live
cattle, that their alarm was groundless, arguing that the English grower
had substantial security in the quality of the article, and that England
from this circumstance might become an exporting country. Mr. Labouchere
said that he had heard the speech of the right honourable baronet with
great pleasure. At the same time he asserted that the late government
had announced a tariff reform; and that it was only the want of success
which attended its plans with respect to corn, timber, and sugar, which
had prevented it from submitting to the house measures of a similar
character to those now brought forward. After a protracted discussion,
the house divided on the question, that the speaker do now leave the
chair, which was carried by a majority of two hundred and nineteen
against one hundred and fifty-two. On the 13th of May, on the motion of
going into committee on the customs' duties bill, Lord Howick proposed
this resolution:--"That in making a new arrangement of the customs'
duties, it is not expedient to impose different rates of duty upon
the same articles when imported from foreign countries or from British
possessions, in any case where no such difference now exists; and that
in those cases in which such a difference already exists, it is not
expedient that it should be increased." He argued that such differences
would injure the revenue without benefiting the consumer; while they
would force colonial traders into precarious existence. This view of the
case was ably combated by Mr. Gladstone; and on a division the motion
was negatived by a majority of two hundred and eighty-one against one
hundred and eight. The house considered the tariff in detail after the
Whitsuntide recess; when the duties on cattle and provisions excited
keen discussion, the agricultural members being alarmed at the prospect
of foreign competition, which they anticipated from the reduced duties.
On the house going into committee on the 23rd of May, the motion being
made, "That in lieu of the present rates of duty now payable on the
articles enumerated in the annexed schedules, there shall be raised,
levied, and paid upon the importation of the said articles into the
United Kingdom, the rates of duty proposed in the annexed schedules;"
Mr. Miles moved, by way of amendment, the following words:--"All live
stock imported from foreign countries being charged by weight." In
support of his amendment Mr. Miles went into a variety of calculations
to show the injury that would result to the farmer from the proposed
arrangement of duties, contending that the United States, Denmark,
Holland. Prussia, and the various states of Germany, would fatten cattle
for the English market, and thus render it impossible for the farmers at
home to compete with the foreign breeder. He was supported by the Earl
of March, and Messrs. H. Palmer and G. Heathcote, and opposed by
Lords Alford and Norreys, Colonel Wyndham, and Messrs. Gaily Knight
and Gladstone. The latter said that a material omission in Mr. Miles's
argument, was the want of proof that a large quantity of cattle could
be imported so as to injure the English farmer. Lord John Russell, in
continuation, said that he rejoiced to hear the principles laid down
by Sir Robert Peel; but he argued that they should have been extended
to the corn-laws. Other members spoke on both sides of the question; and
after a reply from Mr. Miles, the amendment was rejected by a majority
of three hundred and eighty against two hundred and sixty-seven.
When the committee resumed on the following day, Mr. Miles moved an
amendment, imposing a duty of 5s. 6d. per cwt. on live cattle, and 9s.
4d. per cwt. on the dead meat. This amendment, however, was withdrawn;
and one moved by Mr. Villiers, that the duty of one shilling per head
on oxen and bulls be substituted for the government proposition,
was rejected. The items in the tariff were then taken _seriatim_.
Discussions took place, and amendments were proposed on the duties
affecting swine and hogs, foreign fish, apples, butter, potatoes,
timber, cotton manufactures, foreign silk, &c.; but in each case the
duties affixed by government were affirmed by large majorities. The
third reading of the customs' act was at length moved on the 28th
of June, on which occasion Mr. John Jervis moved a clause to grant a
drawback on coals proved to be exported for the consumption of British
steam-vessels. This motion was rejected; and on the question that the
bill do pass, Lord John Russell made some few remarks on its general
provisions, and Sir Robert Peel acknowledged the support which he had
generally received from both sides of the house. The question being then
put from the chair, the bill was read a third time, and passed in the
midst of loud cheers.

The customs' act was read a first time in the house of lords two days
after it had passed the commons, and the Earl of Ripon moved the second
reading on the 5th of July. Two days afterwards the house went into
committee on the bill, and every amendment proposed by opposition lords
was negatived without division, and the bill passed through committee,
and was reported.

The subject of the duties on sugar was brought forward in a committee of
ways and means, on the 3rd of June, by the chancellor of the exchequer,
who explained the reasons why government could not consent to the
admission of foreign sugar at a lower rate of duty, and moved a
resolution that the present duties should be continued one year; which
proposition, after a lengthened discussion, was confirmed.


MR. VILLIERS'S MOTION ON THE CORN-LAWS.

On the 11th of July, it having been moved to go into committee of
supply, the opposition party brought forward the subject of the state
of the nation. Mr. Villiers having moved as an amendment for the
appointment of a select committee on the laws regulating the importation
of corn, with a view to their total repeal, prefaced his motion with
a speech, in which he said that he brought the subject forward in
compliance with the request of the anti-corn-law delegates; and because,
in the late discussion on the state of the nation, a taunt had been
thrown out on the ministerial side, that, if the opposition thought that
a repeal of the corn daws would remedy the evil, they ought to submit
that proposition to the house. The motion was seconded by Mr. Fielden,
and supported by Mr. Aglionby, who declared the new sliding-scale was a
delusion. Sir Charles Napier and Mr. Gaily Knight conceived that these
debates ought not to be protracted: it was an unfair way of conducting
any opposition to a government. Sir Robert Peel bitterly complained of
the continual interruption to public business, and of the impediments
opposed to a fair trial of the new corn-law. Lord J. Russell, Viscount
Howick, Sir John Hanmer, and Mr. Cobden supported the motion; but, on
a division, it was rejected by two hundred and thirty-one against one
hundred and seventeen.

While these discussions were taking place in the house of commons, the
same class of topics were brought forward in the house of lords by Lord
Brougham, who moved that a select committee be appointed to inquire into
the distress of the country. This motion was supported by Lord Kinnaird
and the Marquis of Clanricarde; and opposed by the Earl of Ripon,
Viscount Melbourne, and Earl Stanhope. On a division it was rejected by
a majority of sixty-one against fourteen.


THE GREAT CHARTIST PETITION.

The most striking shape in which the grievances of the working classes
presented themselves to the notice of the legislature during this
session, was the presentation of a petition, which, for bulk and
signatures, was unparalleled in the annals of parliament. The signatures
attached to it exceeded 3,000,000; and in conveying it to the house of
commons, it required sixteen men to support it. It was, in fact, too
large to be admitted into the door of the house of commons; and, in
order to effect its enhance, it was divided into sections. It was
presented by Mr. T. Dun-combe, who, in calling the attention of the
house to its contents, thanked them for the kind and respectful manner
in which it had been received. The petition, he remarked, had nearly
3,500,000 signatures; and, making allowance for the signatures of youths
and females, he was prepared to prove that there were above 1,500,000
of families of the industrious classes subscribers to that petition. The
prayer of the petition was for the enactment of the great constitutional
changes which form the "six points" in the Chartist creed, to which
was added a demand for the abolition of all kinds of monopolies. Mr.
Duncombe concluded by moving, "that the petitioners of the national
petition be heard at the bar of this house, by themselves, their
counsel, or agents, in support of the allegations of then-petitions."
The motion was seconded by Mr. Leader. The spirit of this petition was
bitter, and its language offensive. It was pervaded by a desire for
class legislation, and propounded doctrines subversive of the rights
of property, and of the national faith and credit. On a division, the
motion was negatived by two hundred and eighty-seven against forty-nine.


BILL FOR RESTRAINING THE EMPLOYMENT OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN IN MINES AND
COLLIERIES.

In a previous session, after having been the means of carrying a
humane law to prevent the cruelties inflicted on children employed in
factories, Lord Ashley procured the appointment of commissioners for
inquiry into the employment of children. These commissioners examined
into the state of young persons in mines and collieries; and the course
of their inquiries brought to light more than the sufferings of children
alone; for they found the cases of the women in many places equally
pitiable. This subject was brought forward by Lord Ashley in the house
of commons on the 7th of June, when his lordship moved for leave to
bring in a bill for restraining the employment of women and children
in mines and collieries. The speech of Lord Ashley disclosed a state
of things in the mining districts the most appalling. Cruel oppressions
were perpetrated by the mine owners and overseers, especially upon women
and children; and frequently parents showed an utter callousness to
the sufferings of their offspring. The work assigned to girls and young
women was destructive of health, and was conducted under circumstances
so indecent that it was difficult for the noble speaker to state
the details to the house. The commons received the intelligence with
amazement and indignation; they had no conception that such outrages
upon female decency, and upon humanity, existed in England. Lord Ashley
proceeded to state the means, which he should call upon the legislature
to adopt for an immediate removal of the most hideous and appalling
features of the system he had described. The means explained by his
lordship were fourfold: the total exclusion of female labour from all
mines and collieries in the country; the exclusion of all boys under
thirteen years of age; the prevention of the employment of males
under twenty-one years of age as engineers; and the abolition of
apprenticeship. Lord Ashley concluded his able and humane speech in this
appropriate and emphatic language of scripture:--"Let us break off our
sins by righteousness, and our iniquities by showing mercy to the poor."
A hearty concurrence was manifested on all sides of the house in the
proposition; and the bill having been brought in, was passed rapidly
through all its stages, and finally read a third time amidst loud
cheers. Before the measure came into the upper house, it was announced
by Lord Wharncliffe that ministers would be passive respecting it,
each individual member taking what part they deemed prudent. The second
reading was moved by the Earl of Devon, who, after vindicating the
measure, contended that without any evidence the house would be
justified in preventing the employment of women in the places described.
Subsequently, the earl explained the alterations which it had been
thought advisable to make in the bill; namely, the postponement of the
time at which the employment of females should cease until the 1st of
March next; the abandonment of a clause for regulating the hours
during which children should be employed; the restricting the term of
apprenticeship in any mine or colliery to eight years instead of entire
prohibition; and the enacting that no boy be apprenticed under ten years
of age. Several noble lords spoke for and against the measure; but the
motion for going into committee was carried by forty-nine against three.
In committee several amendments were successively proposed by Lords
Beaumont, Littleton, Skelmersdale, Dunmore, and Mount Cashel; but they
were all rejected, and the several clauses were agreed to, with some
verbal amendments, and the bill reported. The third reading was opposed
by Lord Londonderry, but without success; and the bill passed. The
amendments were subsequently agreed to in the commons.


BRIBERY AT ELECTIONS.

On the 6th of May, Mr. Roebuck, having given notice previously of his
intention, moved for a committee of inquiry into the election of the
members for Reading, Nottingham, Lewes, Penryn, and Harwich. In making
this motion Mr. Roebuck entered into particulars concerning these
elections, in all of which he contended bribery had been practised. He
wished to inquire into these transactions in order to expose them to the
people of this country. He had not, he said, confined his accusations to
one side of the house or the other. He had made no party question of it:
he stood up for the purity of the house; and, God willing, it should be
made pure. The motion was seconded by Mr. Fitzroy, member for Lewes, who
warmly challenged inquiry into his conduct. Captain Plumridge, also,
member for Penryn, declared that he had never given one penny towards
the expenses of his election. On the other hand, Mr. Elphinstone,
another of the accused members, declared frankly that, in his election,
both parties had been guilty of bribery, and that if the inquiry had
proceeded, none of the four candidates for his seat would now have been
members of parliament. After a lengthened discussion a committee was
appointed, and at the latter part of July the report of this committee
was presented to the house, shortly after whicli Mr. Roebuck gave
notice of his intention to move the following resolutions:--"That the
compromises of election petitions, as brought to the knowledge of this
house by the Report of the Select Committee on Election Proceedings,
must, if for the future they be allowed to pass without punishment or
censure, tend to bring this house into contempt with the people, and
thereby seriously to diminish its power and authority. That all such
practices are hereby declared to be a violation of the liberties of the
people, and a breach of the privileges of this house; which it will in
all future cases inquire into, and severely punish. That whereas in the
late elections for Harwich, Nottingham. Lewes, Reading, Falmouth, and
Penryn, and Bridport, the present laws have been found insufficient to
protect the voters from the mischievous temptations of bribery, it be
ordered that Mr. Speaker do issue no writ for any election of members
for the said towns, till further legislative enactments have been
adopted to protect the purity of elections." In moving these resolutions
Mr. Roebuck said that they mentioned no names, but simply provided for
future mischiefs. He had proved all his assertions, and much more:
and would the reflecting and honest people of England believe, that
in buying up poor voters, in debauching, poor constituencies, and
afterwards shielding themselves by a contemptible quibble, and buying
off the consequences, the conduct of members was either honourable to
themselves, or beneficial to their constituents? He believed the people
would say the chief criminal was the briber; the rich man who went
down with money in his pocket to a large constituency.--some of them
oppressed by poverty--and offered them bribes to sell their consciences.
A lengthened and stormy debate took place; but the resolutions were all
negatived. But, notwithstanding the house of commons refused to affirm
these resolutions, the investigation that had taken place had some
practical result. One of the terms on which the petition against the
return of one of the members for Reading was compromised, was the
acceptance of the Chiltern hundreds within a limited time. When that
time arrived, however, for carrying this stipulation into effect, an
unexpected difficulty occurred. The chancellor of the exchequer now made
aware, by the publication of the report, for what the application
was preferred, declined to grant it; and the individual who had bound
himself to resign his seat, found it beyond his power to do so. The
course of proceeding adopted by the chancellor of the exchequer became
the subject of discussion in the house of commons on the 6th of August,
when Lord Palmerston moved for "copies of any correspondence which had
taken place since the 1st day of July last, between the chancellor of
the exchequer and any member of this house, upon the subject of the
stewardship of the Chiltern hundreds;" the result of which motion was
that the copies were ordered. Subsequently, the writs for filling up
vacancies created by the unseating or collusive resignation of members
at Ipswich, Southampton, Nottingham, and Newcastle-under-Lyne were all
ordered to be issued. The disclosures before the committee concerning
Sudbury, induced Mr. Redington, the chairman, to bring in a bill for the
disfranchisement of that borough; but though this bill was supported by
government, and passed through the commons, owing to the late period at
which it was sent up to the lords, it only reached a second reading in
that house. The writ, however, was suspended _sine die_. In connection
with this subject, it may be mentioned that Lord John Russell brought in
a bill for the prevention of bribery, and remedying some of the abuses
to which election proceedings were liable; which bill, with some
modifications in committee, passed both houses, and received the royal
assent.


LAW REFORMS.

In the early part of this session the lord-chancellor gave notice of
bills respecting bankruptcy, lunacy, and county courts. Adverting first
to the subject of bankruptcies, he commenced by paying a compliment to
Lord Brougham, upon the improvements in that department of the law
which he had introduced. His lordship continued:--"That system, however,
excellent as it was, comprised within its jurisdiction only a circuit
of forty miles round London. He proposed to extend the metropolitan
district to a hundred miles round London; which would add a fifth to the
business of the commissioners, without inconvenience to them. For
the country, it was proposed to appoint commissioners at five central
points, in five great towns, beyond the London district, invested with
the same power which was at present reposed in the London commissioners.
They would perform the same quantity of duty now performed by the London
commissioners, having a similar range and a similar jurisdiction." The
course respecting the law of lunacy was somewhat similar. His lordship
remarked:--"The law of lunacy was administered like that of bankruptcy,
the London commissioners having jurisdiction for twenty miles round the
metropolis; and the country commissions being like those of bankruptcy,
directed to persons of little or no experience, though the inquiries
were of the nicest and most delicate character. He proposed that two
commissioners should be appointed, for the purpose of executing
all those commissions, not only in the metropolitan districts, but
throughout the country. From an examination of details he was satisfied
that those two commissioners would be amply sufficient for discharging
those and other important duties connected with lunacy. The payment of
commissioners by fees would be abolished, and they would be added to the
visitors at present appointed to inspect the condition of lunatics. They
would be taken from among the highest members of the bar." Concerning
the county courts, his lordship said that he was averse to any sweeping
change: his measure went merely to extend their jurisdiction. They were
presided over by the county clerk, whose jurisdiction extended to forty
shillings. "If," said his lordship, "I appoint a particular place,
and give them a jurisdiction to the extent of five pounds, and appoint
persons of respectability and learning, I think I do not innovate upon
ancient institutions." His lordship proposed further, that for the
recovery of debts to the amount of twenty pounds, persons should be
appointed judges of these courts, who should not reside in the provinces
where they administered the law, but that they should make circuits,
like the judges of the land, into the provinces with which they were not
acquainted, and where they had no local connections or prejudices. His
lordship proposed that there should be six or eight circuits in the
year, to be made by barristers of a certain standing, to be appointed by
the crown; who should return to the metropolis after the circuits, where
they could mix with their colleagues in the profession, and thus give
a security for the uniformity of the law which they administered.
The bills were generally approved of, and they passed the upper house
unopposed. In the commons an attempt was made to induce government to
postpone the consideration of them; and that relating to the county
courts was postponed till the following year, but those respecting
bankruptcy and lunacy were passed. Another bill, introduced by Sir James
Graham, for the amendment of the law relating to the registration
of votes in England, was delayed; and three bills proposed by Lord
Campbell, to alter the administration of the house of lords as a court
of appeal, to alter the system of appeal to the judicial committee
of the privy council, and to amend the administration of the court of
chancery, were rejected. A question of general interest respecting
the marriage law was also raised this session in the commons, by Lord
Francis Egerton, who moved for leave to bring in a bill to alter the
laws relating to marriage within certain degrees of affinity. The chief
feature of this bill was, that it would enable a widower to marry a
deceased wife's sister; but, on a division, the motion for leave to
bring in the bill was lost by one hundred and twenty-three against one
hundred.


BILL FOR THE PROTECTION OF THE ROYAL PERSON.

During this session, in consequence of an attempt upon the queen's life,
by an insane person of the name of Bean, Sir Robert Peel brought in a
bill on the subject, which met with the unanimous approbation of the
house. In introducing this bill, after adverting to the act passed in
the reign of George III., for the protection of that monarch, Sir Robert
said that he proposed to extend the change of procedure involved in that
act, namely, the abolition of the forms usually attendant on trials of
high treason, &c, to cases where the offence was that of compassing
the wounding of the sovereign. Concerning the class of offences against
which his measure was to provide, Sir Robert remarked:--"I propose that,
after the passing of this act, if any person or persons shall wilfully
discharge, or attempt to discharge, or point, aim, or present at or
near the person of the queen, any gun, pistol, or other description of
fire-arms whatsoever, although the same shall not contain explosive or
destructive substance or material; or if any person shall strike, or
attempt to strike the person of the queen with any offensive weapons, or
in any manner whatever; or if any person shall wilfully throw or attempt
to throw any substance whatever at or on the person of the queen, with
intent, in any of the cases aforesaid, to break the public peace, or
with intent, in any of the cases-aforesaid, to excite the alarm of the
queen; I propose that any party so offending--that is, intending to
hurt the queen, or to alarm the queen, shall be subject to the same
penalties which apply to cases of larceny; that is, he be subject to
transportation not exceeding seven years. I propose, also, another
punishment, more suitable to the offence, and more calculated to repress
it, that there be a discretionary power of imprisonment for a
certain period, with authority to inflict personal chastisement." In
continuance, Sir Robert Peel expressed an opinion that such a punishment
would awe miscreants capable of harbouring such designs, and that the
provisions of the bill would be amply sufficient for the purpose of
protecting her majesty. "For," he added, "observe what we have to guard
against--it is not any traitorous attempt against the peace of the
nation by conspiring to take away the life of the sovereign, but it is
the folly or malignity of wretches who are guilty of acts prompted by
motives which are scarcely assignable. The law, in its charity to human
nature, has omitted to provide for the case of any being formed like a
man who could find a satisfaction in firing a pistol at a young lady,
that lady a mother, and that mother the queen of these realms. It
never entered into the conception of former law-makers that anything
so monstrous should arise, as that the queen of these realms should not
enjoy a degree of liberty granted to the meanest of her subjects. I am
sure the house will respond to the proposition to give the security of
this law for the protection of her majesty." The bill was passed with
unanimity.


POOR-LAW AMENDMENT BILL.

During this session government proposed and carried a bill re-enacting
the poor-law commission for five years, abolishing the Gilbert unions,
and forming districts for the purposes of education and various minor
matters. This bill, however, was not carried without much opposition.


PROROGATION OF PARLIAMENT.

Parliament was prorogued on the 12th of August by the queen in person.
Having given the royal assent to several bills, her majesty expressed
her grateful sense of the assiduity and zeal with which both houses
had applied themselves to the discharge of their public duties. In her
speech her majesty also alluded to the measures which had been
taken into consideration; thanked her parliament for the loyalty and
affectionate attachment shown to her person by the act passed for her
protection; and made some allusions to reverses which had befallen a
division of the army westward of the Indus, and to a victory gained at
Jellalabad.


EAST INDIA AFFAIRS, ETC.

During the preceding year the British power in India came into hostile
collision with the Ghilzies. This collision was thus brought about. The
Khoord Cabul Pass is a long and dangerous defile through which the
road between Cabul and Jellalabad runs, and which, therefore, it was
necessary to keep open for the purpose of safe intercourse between Cabul
and British India. This part of Affghanistan was occupied by the eastern
Ghilzies: and it was thought advisable to purchase from them the right
of traversing the pass without molestation. An agreement was, in fact,
entered into with the Ghilzee chiefs, whereby it was stipulated that
a certain sum of money should be paid them yearly out of the Cabul
treasury, if they would keep the pass open, and offer no molestation
to our troops on their passage between Cabul and Jellalabad. Owing,
however, to the financial difficulties of the Cabul treasury, or to some
mismanagement on the part of the officer who was appointed to disburse
the money, the whole amount of the stipulated sum was not paid, and
the Ghilzies immediately rose in arms and closed the passes. It was
necessary to open it by force; and Major-general Sir Robert Sale was
sent by General Elphinstone from Cabul for that purpose. The brigade
which Sir Robert commanded entered the pass on the 12th of October. The
Ghilzies were posted behind a breastwork near the middle of the pass;
and as the assailing body approached, the enemy withdrew from this
position, and occupied the steep and precipitous ridges of the mountains
on either side, from whence they opened a well-directed fire. General
Sale was wounded in the ankle and obliged to leave the field; and
Lieutenant-colonel Dennie then took the command. Under his direction
one section of the brigade got possession of the heights, and their guns
were established in a deserted fort on the southern gorge of the pass;
but the other division marched back through the defile to the camp at
Boothak. But, although the Khoord Cabul Pass was thus cleared, the force
under General Sale was compelled to fight with the enemy during eighteen
days in their route to Gundamuek, which was reached on the 30th of
October. After this the British troops commanded the route to Sookhab;
and on the 12th of November they reached Jellalabad. In the meantime
a fearful tragedy, which ended in the total destruction of our Cifeul
force, had commenced in that city. The British troops were placed in
a cantonment on the north side of the city, which cantonment consisted
only of a low rampart and narrow ditch, in the form of a parallelogram,
thrown up along the line of the Kohistan road, one thousand yards long
and six hundred broad, with round flanking bastions at each corner,
every one of which was commanded by some fort or hill. The "Mission
Compound," where Sir William M'Naghten, the envoy, and his suite
resided, was attached to the cantonment on the north side, and
surrounded by a single wall. On the eastern side, about a quarter of
a mile off, the Cabul river flowed in a direction parallel with the
Kohistan road; and between the river and cantonments there was a
wide canal. In itself this cantonment was most insecure; but General
Elphinstone threw a bridge over the river so as to render the
communication between the Seeah Sung camp and the cantonment still more
easy. The most extraordinary oversight, however, was the allowing
the commissariat stores to be placed in an old fort detached from the
cantonment, and in such a state as to be wholly indefensible. The troops
were thus placed when a rebellion took place under Ameenoollah and
Abdoolhah Khan. It commenced by an attack on the dwellings of Sir
Alexander Barnes and Captain Johnson, who resided in the city of Cabal;
Sir Alexander, his brother, Lieutenant Burnes, and Lieutenant Broadfoot
were murdered. On discovering this, General Elphinstone sent an order to
Brigadier Shelton to march forthwith with a body of troops to the Bala
Hissar, or royal citadel, situated at the eastern extremity of the city;
the rest of the troops in that camp were withdrawn into the cantonment,
and the whole of the camp followers when collected amounted to twelve
thousand, exclusive of women and children. A long and miserable siege
now took place. The Affghans surrounded the cantonments, and poured in
a constant fire from every quarter; and, at length, on the 11th of
December, the commissariat fort being captured by the enemy, Sir William
M'Naghten was compelled to sign this humiliating agreement with
the rebel chief:--"That the British should evacuate the whole of
Affghanistan, including Candahar, Ghuznee, and Jellalabad: that they
should be permitted to return unmolested to India; and that supplies
should be granted to them on their road thither--certain men of
consequence accompanying them as hostages; that means of transport
should be furnished to the troops; that Dost Mahomed Khan, his family,
and every Affghan then detained within our territory should be allowed
to return to their own country; that Shah Soojah and his family should
have the option of remaining at Cabul or proceeding with the British
troops to Loodianah, in either case receiving from the Affghan
government one lac of rupees per annum; that an amnesty should be
granted to all who had taken the part of Shah Soojah; that all prisoners
should be released; that no British force should ever be sent into
Affghanistan, unless invited by the Affghan government." The chiefs,
in retiring from the conference, took with them Captain Trevor as a
hostage. Much delay took place in carrying any of these terms into
effect; and in the meantime a trap was laid for Sir William M'Naghten,
into which he fell. On the 22nd of December two Affghans came into the
cantonment, and had a private conference with him, in which they made
a proposal on the part of Akbar Khan, that Ameenoolah Khan should be
seized the next day, and delivered up to the British as a prisoner; that
the Bala Hissar should be occupied by one of our regiments: that Shah
Soojah should continue king, and Mahomed Akbar become his Wuzeer, or
prime-minister; and that our troops should remain in the cantonment
until the following spring. To these specious terms the envoy unwarily
assented; and on the 23rd of December, accompanied by three officers, he
left the Mission-House to attend a conference with Mahomed Akbar Khan
in the plain toward Seeah Sung. While in the act of conference, however,
Sir William M'Naghten and the officers were seized from behind by armed
men; and he and Captain Trevor were murdered; the other officers escaped
with difficulty. The situation of the British troops was now evidently
desperate, and Major-general Elphinstone deemed it necessary to provide
for their safety by again attempting to negociate with the enemy. A
convention was entered into, in pursuance of which the troops commenced
their march on the 6th of January. In the whole there were 4,500
fighting men about 12,000 camp followers, and a large number of women
and children. Their retreat was most disastrous. The snow lay deep upon
the ground, and the rear-guard had scarcely quitted the camp before it
was attacked by the enemy. As far as Bareekhur the whole way was strewed
with the dead and dying, who were immediately stripped and left naked
by the Affghans; while the merciless Ghuzees hacked the dead corpses to
pieces with their long knives. While at Bareekhur a communication was
opened with Akbar Khan, who now offered to restrain the Affghans from
further outrages, provided hostages were delivered to him as a security
that the British would not march beyond Tezeen, until General Sale had
evacuated Jellalabad. The proposal was accepted, and Major Pottinger
and Captains Lawrence and Mackenzie became hostages. The troops now
proceeded to the Khoord Cabul Pass; but Akbar Khan's promise was futile:
they had to force the difficult pass with considerable loss. The next
morning the treacherous chief sent to the encampment, professing his
concern at his inability to restrain the Ghilzies, who had been most
active in the attacks of the preceding day; but he offered to protect
the ladies, provided they would put themselves under his care. Eight
ladies, including Lady Sale and Lady M'Naghten, placed themselves under
his protection; those who had husbands being solaced by their company.
In resuming the march the contest recommenced, and it did not cease
until they reached Jugdulluck. Few, however, reached that place. Of the
whole force which had left Cabul, amounting to more than 16,000 persons,
not more than three hundred are said to have escaped. At Jugdulluck,
Akbar Khan effectually interfered, and the unfortunate British were
allowed to occupy, without molestation, a ruined enclosure, where they
lay down, worn out by fatigue, and helpless, in the snow. Out of this
number only one man, Dr. Brydon, lived to reach Jellalabad; the rest,
subsequent to the protection afforded them by Akbar Khan at Jugdulluck,
were all slain, either by the Affghan troops, or by the inhabitants of
the villages through which they passed in their flight. As for General
Elphinstone, he was detained prisoner by Akbar Khan, who sent for him
under pretence of treating personally with him.

The enemy now approached Jellalabad, which was occupied by Sir Robert
Sale, who had maintained his position there since the day on which he
reached it. This gallant general had been engaged in several encounters
with the enemy, in which he had uniformly punished them. When the enemy
approached Jellalabad, Lady Sale, then a prisoner in the hands of the
Affghans, wrote a letter, exhorting lier husband to defend his position;
saying that she preferred death to dishonour. Sir Robert Sale refused,
when summoned, to abandon his post, and he was consequently besieged
by the enemy. Vigorous efforts were soon made to relieve the besieged
garrison. Lord Auckland was about to retire from the government of
India, and a new governor-general, Lord Ellenborough, had arrived at
Calcutta on the 18th of February. In the meantime Sir Jasper Nicholls,
who was commander-in-chief of the British forces in India, was urged by
Lord Auckland to push on to Peshawar as many troops as he could spare.
A body of 3500 men arrived at Peshawar on the 27th, but he having failed
to force the Khyber Pass, was compelled to remain passive until joined
by Major-general Pollock, who, when he arrived, took command of the
forces destined for the relief of Jellalabad. A portion of the forces
under his command consisted of Sikhs, the troop of the Maha Rajah Shere
Sing, ruler of the Punjaub, under General Abitabile. On the arrival
of Major-general Pollock at Peshawar, accounts were received from
Jellalabad, representing General Sale as in want of immediate succour.
Two brigades, consisting of 4,000 men, under the command of Colonel
Bolton, had not yet joined his forces; but General Pollock nevertheless
resolved to advance forthwith, having under his command about 8,000 men.
The task he had to perform was one of the most difficult nature. From
Jamrood, on the eastern side, the Khyber Pass extends for twenty-eight
miles towards Jellalabad; and the defiles had hitherto been considered
as impassable to an army if opposed by an enemy. The pass was defended
by the Khyberries; but, despite their opposition, his whole force
cleared it by the 14th of April; the first instance in history of an
army forcing its way through these dreaded defiles in face of an enemy.
The Sikh troops were left in possession of the pass, and on the morning
of the 16th of April the troops, under the command of General Pollock,
came in sight of Jellalabad, and were loudly greeted by the beleaguered
garrison.

Before the arrival of General Pollock at Jellalabad, General Sale had,
however, gained some important victories over his adversaries. The most
important victory was obtained on the 7th of April, and Sir Robert
Sale thus describes the contest:--"The troops issued from the Cabul and
Peshawar gates at daylight this morning. So far from the Sirdhar (i.e.
Akbar Kahn) having made any dispositions to avoid the encounter, his
whole force (not falling short of 6,000 men) was formed in order of
battle, for the defence of his camp, its right resting on a fort, and
its left on the Cabul river; and even the ruined works, within eight
hundred yards of the place, recently repaired, were filled with Ghilzie
marksmen, evidently prepared for a stout resistance. The attack was led
by the skirmishers, and a column, under Captain Havelock, which drove
the enemy in the most satisfactory manner from the extreme left of his
advanced line of works, which it pierced, and proceeded to advance into
the plain; whilst the central column directed its efforts against a
square fort upon the same base, the defence of which was obstinately
maintained. With the deepest regret I have to record that, whilst
nobly leading his regiment to the assault, Colonel Dennie, C.B., of her
majesty's thirteenth light infantry, received a shot through his body,
which shortly after proved fatal. The rear of the work having been
finally gained by passing to its left, I gave orders for a combined
attack upon the enemy's camp. It was in every way brilliant and
successful. The artillery advanced at the gallop, and directed a heavy
fire upon the Affghan centre, whilst two of the columns of infantry
penetrated his line near the same point; and the third forced back his
left from its support on the river, into the stream of which some of his
horse and foot were driven. The Affghans made repeated attempts to
check our advance by a smart fire of musketry, by throwing forward heavy
bodies of horse, which twice threatened in force the detachments of foot
under Captain Havelock, and by opening on us three guns screened by
a garden wall, and said to have been served under the personal
superintendance of the Sirdhar; but in a short time they were dislodged
from every point of their positions, their cannon taken, and their camp
involved in a general conflagration. The battle was over, and the enemy
in full retreat in the direction of Lugliman by about seven a.m. We have
made ourselves masters of two cavalry standards; recaptured four guns
lost by the Cabul army and Gundamuck forces; and seized and destroyed a
great quantity of _materiel_ and ordnance stores, and burned the whole
of the enemy's tents. In short, the defeat of Mahomet Akbar in open
field, by the troops whom he had boasted of blockading, has been
complete and signal." After his defeat Akbar Khan retired in the
direction of Cabul, but his troops deserted from him to a man. Such was
the state of affairs when the junction between the forces of General
Sale and General Pollock took place at Jellalabad. The garrison was
suffering severely from want of provisions, but plentiful supplies
soon began to pour in from Peshawar, and the two generals subsequently
resolved upon offensive operations. At this time the monarch whom the
British power had placed on the throne at Cabul was dead: he had ordered
a general levy of troops to be made in his capital, to march upon
Jellalabad; and, while he was on his way to join these troops at Seeah
Sung, he was fired upon by fifty Juzdilchees, who were placed in ambush,
and was killed. General Pollock remained at Jellalabad upwards of four
months, during which time his troops suffered severely from sickness,
and their ranks were greatly thinned by death; and it was not until the
20th of August that he commenced his march towards Cabul. The prisoners,
male and female, which were captured by Akbar Khan were in separate
forts within the valley of Tezeen, where General Elphinstone died; and
during the period of General Pollock's stay at Jellalabad, Akbar
Khan sent two of the British officers in captivity to treat for the
liberation of the whole. He wished, however, to make our evacuation
of Affghanistan the condition of restoring the prisoners; but as this
proposal could not be entertained, all negotiations ceased, and the
prisoners were subsequently removed from Tezeen to forts between Cabul
and Bameean. Previous to his departure from Jellalabad, General Pollock
had issued a manifesto to the chiefs at Cabul, stating his intention
of marching upon the city, and promising them that if they restored the
prisoners, their property would be protected and their city spared; but
that if they allowed Akbar Khan to remove them, they must all be held
responsible for the consequences, and that every house in Cabul should
be razed to the ground. At length, on the 20th of August, General
Pollock advanced from Jellalabad. The first conflict with the enemy
took place at Mammoo Khail, about two miles from Gundamuck, where about
12,000 troops under the command of the chiefs Hadji Ali and Kyrrollah
Khan were defeated. The two chiefs retreated towards Cabul, and General
Pollock advanced thither on the 7th of September. On the 8th he reached
the Soorkah, a small river, from which he had to traverse the formidable
pass in order to arrive at Jugdulluck, which is about twenty miles
distant. An obstinate opposition was made to his progress from the
heights by which this pass is surrounded; but it was overcome by the
prowess of the British forces, and the enemy took refuge in flight.
Their onward march still lay through a difficult country; but General
Pollock did not again encounter the enemy until he arrived at the valley
of Tezeen. Here the pass was occupied by Akbar Khan himself; and while
the British troops were halting to allow the cattle to recover from the
effects of the fatigue of their forced march, they were attacked by the
Affghans, though without success. A general action took place on the
13th of September, which General Pollock has thus described:--"The
valley of Tezeen, where we were encamped, is completely encircled by
lofty hills; and on the morning of the 13th it was perceived that the
Affghans had occupied in great force every height not already occupied
by our troops. I commenced my march towards the mouth of the Tezeen
Pass, where I had left two guns, two squadrons of her majesty's third
dragoons, a party of first light cavalry, and the third irregular
cavalry. The enemy's horse appeared in the valley, with the intention
of falling upon the baggage; but the dragoons and native cavalry made a
most brilliant charge, and with such effect that the whole body of the
enemy's force was completely routed, and a number of them cut up.
The Pass of Tezeen affords great advantages to an enemy occupying the
heights; and on the present occasion Mahomed Akbar neglected nothing to
render its natural difficulties as formidable as numbers could make
it. Our troops mounted the heights, and the Affghans, contrary to their
general custom, advanced to meet them, and a desperate struggle ensued;
indeed their defence was so obstinate that the British bayonet, in many
instances, alone decided the contest. The light company of her majesty's
ninth foot, led by Captain Lushington, ascending the hills on the
left of the pass under a heavy cross-fire, charged, and overthrew their
opponents, leaving several horses and their riders, supposed to be
chiefs, dead on the hill. The slaughter was considerable; and the
fight continued during the greater part of the day, the enemy appearing
resolved that we should not ascend the Huft Kothul. One spirit seemed
to pervade all, and a determination to conquer overcame the obstinate
resistance of the enemy, who were at length forced from their numerous
and strong positions; and our troops mounted the Huft Kothul, giving
three cheers when they reached the summit. Here Lieutenant-colonel
Cunningham, with a party of sappers, pressed the enemy so hard, that
they left in their precipitation a twenty-four pound howitzer and
limber, carrying off the draft-bullocks. Having heard that another gun
had been seen, and concluding that it could not have gone very far,
I detached a squadron of dragoons, under Captain Tritton, and two
horse-artillery guns, under Major Delafosse, in pursuit; the gun, a
twelve-pound howitzer, with bullocks sufficient for two guns, were
soon captured. The dragoons again got among the enemy, and succeeded in
cutting up many of them. Captain Broad-foot with the sappers advanced,
and, with the dragoons, happened to fall in with another part of the
enemy, of whom upwards of twenty were killed. I have ascertained there
were about 16,000 men in the field opposed to me, of whom a considerable
portion was cavalry. Mahomed Akbar Khan, Mahomed Shah Khan, Ameen Oolla,
and many other chiefs with their followers were present." After this
decisive battle Akbar Khan made no further resistance; and on the 15th
of September they encamped on the race-ground at Cabul. During their
march from Jellalabad, Prince Futteh Jung had arrived in the camp as a
wanderer; and on the 16th, General Pollock, accompanied by him, marched
to the Bala Hissar, and there planted the British colours. Several of
the English prisoners had already joined the camp; and before the
21st of the month, the whole of them, with the exception of Captain
Bygrave--who was subsequently liberated--were restored to British
protection. By these successes the stain brought upon the British arms
was effaced, and the prestige of our name regained its former influence
in the East. It was, however, resolved that we should leave Cabul; and
a proclamation to that effect was made by the governor-general. But,
before leaving Cabul, General Pollock despatched General M'Caskill with
a body of troops into Kohistan, where the Affghan chiefs were still
assembled in considerable force. On the 29th of September, General
M'Caskill made himself master of the strong town of Istalif, totally
defeating the numerous bodies of Affghan troops collected for its
defence, under Ameenoollah Khan and other chiefs of Cabul and Kohistan.
This town was set on fire; and a work of plunder and savage slaughter
commenced, which brought a great stain upon the British arms. For two
days the place was given up to fire and sword; and all the bitterness of
hatred was manifested by the soldiery, both European and native. "Not a
man was spared; the Affghans were hunted down like vermin; and whenever
the dead body of an Affghan was found, the Hindoo sepoys set fire to
the clothes, that the curse of a 'burnt father' might attach to his
children." General Pollock also determined to destroy the Char Chouk,
the principal bazaar in Cabul, where the remains of the unfortunate Sir
William M'Naghten had been exposed to insult. This bazaar was destroyed
by gunpowder; and indeed the whole city, with the exception of the Bala
Hissar and the quarter of the Kuzzilbashes, was laid in ruins. About
this time General Pollock was joined by General Nott from Candahar; and
on the 12th of October the two armies left Cabul, the advanced column
being under the command of General Pollock, and that in the rear under
General Nott. No event of consequence occurred during their march, and
on arriving at the fortress of Jellalabad it was levelled with the dust,
and rendered unfit for human habitation. Along the whole line of march,
indeed, every kind of devastation was committed by the troops, who were
exasperated by the sight of the unburied skeletons of their unfortunate
companions in arms, who fell during the fatal retreat early in this
year. When the British forces at length emerged from the Bolan Pass,
which they did on the 1st of October, thereby evacuating the whole
of Affghanistan, they had left behind them a name which will long be
execrated in that country. It is true they had suffered deep wrongs; but
mercy to the vanquished is a nobler quality than unlimited revenge.
The spirit of revenge appears to have pervaded the whole of the British
community in India. Even the governor-general, Lord Ellenborough,
exhibited it in a proclamation issued to all the princes, and chiefs,
and people of India. He writes:--"My brothers and my friends,--Our
victorious army bears the gates of the temple of Somnauth in triumph
from Affghanistan, and the despoiled tomb of Sultan Mahmoud looks upon
the ruins of Ghuznee. The insult of eight hundred years is at last
avenged. The gates of the temple of Somnauth, so long the memorial
of your humiliation, are become the proudest record of your national
glory--the proof of your superiority in arms over the nations beyond the
Indus. To your princes and chiefs of Sirhind, of Bajwarra, of Malwa, and
Guzerat, I shall commit this glorious trophy of successful war. You will
yourselves, with all honour, transmit the gates of sandalwood through
your respective territories, to the restored temple of Somnauth. The
chiefs of Sirhind shall be informed at what time our victorious army
will first deliver the gates of the temple into their guardianship at
the foot of the bridge of the Sutlej." In another proclamation Lord
Ellenborough announced that all the Affghans then in the power of the
British government should be permitted to return to their own country,
and that the Affghan chiefs who were thus released, were, before they
passed the Sutlej, to present themselves at the durbar, or levee, of the
governor-general in his camp at Ferozepore.

The insurrection at Cabul, which has been described, was not confined to
that quarter of Affghanistan. At the time it broke out, General Nott was
in command at Candahar, with a force of nearly 10,000 men. The hostility
of the Affghans in this part of the country soon displayed itself;
Candahar was invested by a large body of insurgents under the command of
Mahomed Atta. This chief was joined by Sufter Jung, one of the sons of
Shah Soojah; but Tiniour, the eldest brother of that family, remained
nominal governor of Candahar. His fidelity, however, was afterwards
suspected, and he was placed in confinement. On the 12 th of January the
insurgent chiefs took up a strong position on the right bank of a river
running through the Achuzye country, about five miles from Candahar.
They mustered about 5,000 men; and General Nott attacked them with a
force consisting of five regiments and a half of infantry, 1,000
horse, and sixteen pieces of artillery. The position of the army was
formidable, being protected in front by canals and a marsh, and both
flanks resting on strong gardens. The enemy, however, was routed, and
compelled to flee in all directions. Tin's success was followed by
another victory over the insurgents, on the 10th of March; after which
they disappeared from the neighbourhood of Candahar. The situation
of the British troops, however, at Candahar, Khelat-i-Ghilzee, and
Gliuznee, being thought precarious in the midst of a population
universally hostile, Brigadier-general England, who commanded the forces
in Scinde, determined to march to the relief of General Nott. In his
route General England encountered a formidable opposition at the Rujjuk
Pass, where Mahomed Seedez, with a large army, was posted to impede his
progress. In an engagement, General England, indeed, lost nearly one
hundred men, and he was compelled to return to Quetta: This attempt,
therefore, for the relief of Candahar failed; and, not long before this,
the British had another humiliation in the surrender of Ghuznee. Ghuznee
was garrisoned by about 1,000 troops, under the command of Colonel
Palmer, and when the general rising on the part of the Affghan
population took place, that fortress and Khelat-i-Ghilzee, in which was
a garrison of five hundred men, were invested by the insurgents. Colonel
Palmer was obliged to capitulate; and on the 6th of March the garrison
marched out from the citadel, and were quartered in a portion of
the town immediately below. Scarcely, however, had the troops
taken possession of the quarter assigned them by the terms of the
capitulation, when they were suddenly attacked by the infuriated
Ghuznees. Day after day the murderous attacks continued; and in the end
the whole were either slain, or sent in camel-chairs to Cabul, to be
kept in custody by Akbar Khan. It was these events that determined
General Nott, on evacuating Candahar, in order to co-operate with
General Pollock, in case the resistance offered by Akbar Khan should
be of such a nature as to render a reinforcement of the British troops
necessary. Candahar was evacuated on the 7th and 8th of August, and the
troops marched onwards without molestation till they came to Gonine,
about thirty miles south-west of Ghuznee. Here General Nott found that
Shumsooden, the Affghan governor of that fortress, was awaiting his
approach with about 12,000 men. This force, however, was quickly
defeated, and their guns, tents, and ammunition captured; General Nott
then moved on Ghuznee, which he found full of armed men, under the
command of Sultan Jan. Ghuznee was stormed, and the enemy driven from
thence in all directions; after which the city and the whole of its
works were destroyed. General Nott now advanced upon Cabul, and at Mydan
he again encountered the enemy; but the British troops dislodged them
from their strong positions; and General Nott effected a junction with
General Pollock without further molestation.

In China the British troops still pursued an inglorious war. In the
month of August, last year, Sir Henry Pottinger and Sir W. Parker had
sailed for Hong-Kong, which was the place of rendezvous for the ships
destined for the expedition to the northward. On the 21st they sailed
from that island, and anchored on the 25th in the harbour of Amoy. This
city is said to have been inhabited by about 70,000 people; and the
Chinese army garrisoning it was 10,000 strong. The number of guns
possessed by the garrison was about five hundred; and the place was so
strongly fortified by nature and art, that the Chinese fancied the place
to be impregnable. Amoy, however, wanted a brave and skilful garrison;
and lacking this, the place was soon captured. The mandarins and
soldiers fled, leaving the city occupied by only a few coolies. This
success was attained without the loss of a man on the part of the
British; and the number of Chinese killed is supposed not to have
exceeded one hundred and fifty. Sir Hugh Gough was mainly instrumental
in effecting this conquest; but, on the 30th of August, the troops were
withdrawn from the city, a garrison of five hundred men only being left
on the island of Cohun-soo, which is distant about 1,200 yards from
Amoy. In the proclamation addressed by Sir H. Pottinger on this occasion
to "her Britannic majesty's subjects in China," he says:--"Her majesty's
plenipotentiary deems it quite superfluous to say one word as to the
manner in which this important service has been performed. The facts
require no eulogium. The Chinese government vainly imagined that they
had rendered Amoy impregnable; but they were undeceived in presence of
the viceroy of the provinces of Chekeang and Fokien (who, with a number
of high officers, witnessed the attacks from the heights above the
town), in the short space of four hours from the firing of the first
gun; and had the opposition been a hundred times greater than it was,
the spirit and bearing of all employed showed that the result must have
been the same." The state of the weather prevented the expedition from
putting to sea and continuing its progress northward before the 5th
of September. On the 21st it reached the Chusan group of islands, and
afterwards reconoitered the Tinghae and Chusan harbour. The walls of
Tinghae were escaladed, and the British colours soon waved over the
fortifications. In this attack upon Tinghae the enemy suffered severely;
several mandarins were killed, while, on the side of the British, two
only were killed, and twenty-four wounded. The next place attacked
was Chinghae, which was captured with the same ease, although it was
enclosed by a wall thirty-seven feet in thickness, and twenty-two feet
in height. Sir William Parker writes concerning this conquest:--"About
eleven o'clock we had the gratification of seeing the British colours
planted by the troops in one of the batteries on the opposite side
of the shore: and in a few minutes the others on that side were all
carried, and the Chinese observed flying in every direction before our
gallant soldiers on the heights. At a quarter past eleven the wall of
the citadel was breached by the fire from the ships; and the defences
being reduced to a ruinous state, the Chinese abandoned their guns,
which they had hitherto worked with considerable firmness, and a large
portion of the garrison retreated precipitately towards the city. Not a
moment was lost in making the signal for landing the battalion of seamen
and marines, with the detachments of artillery and sappers. Before
noon, the boats were all on shore; every impediment presented by the
difficulty of landing on rugged rocks was overcome, and the force
gallantly advanced to the assault, with a celerity that excited my
warmest admiration. An explosion at this time took place in a battery
near the citadel gate; and the remnant of the garrison fled without
waiting to close it. The citadel was therefore rapidly entered, and the
union-jack displayed on the walls. Our people had scarcely passed within
them when another explosion occurred, happily without mischief, but
whether by accident or design is uncertain." Captain Herbert having
secured this post, quickly re-formed his men, and advanced towards the
city; the Chinese still occupying in considerable force the walls of it,
as well as the two batteries beneath the hill on the river side, against
which our troops had already turned some of the guns taken on the
right bank. A few volleys of musketry speedily dislodged them from both
positions, and the battalions of seamen and marines pushed on in steady
and excellent order to attack the city.

The wall was escaladed in two places, and in a short time complete
possession was taken of Chinghae, the Chinese troops having made their
escape through the western gate. Subsequently Sir Hugh Gough captured
Ningpo with the same facility, after which no event of importance
occurred during the past year. Early in the present year the district
cities of Yuydo, Tsikee, and Ftmghwa were temporarily occupied by the
British troops; and the Chinese made a bold but ineffectual attempt to
recover Ningpo. After their unsuccessful attack upon Ningpo, the Chinese
attempted to annoy the British garrison by obstructing the supply of
provisions. A body of about 4,000 Chinese soldiers were encamped at the
town of Tse-kee, about eleven miles westward of Ningpo; but they were
quickly driven from thence by Sir Hugh Gough with great loss. Ningpo was
evacuated by the British on the 7th of May, and on the 16th the fleet
came to the city of Chapoo, which was captured. Sir H. Pottinger, who
had recently been to Canton rejoined the squadron before it sailed
from Chapoo: and its subsequent operations were detailed by him in
a "circular," dated on board the steam-frigate _Queen_, in the
Yang-tze-Kiang river. Its operations were first chiefly confined to the
destruction of batteries along the Woosung river; after which the fleet
entered the great river Yang-tze. In this river operations were directed
against the cities of Suyshan, Chin-Keang-foo, and Nankin. The two
former were captured: but when preparations had been made for attacking
the latter, Sir Hugh Gough and Sir William Parker received instructions
from Sir Henry Pottinger to suspend hostilities, in consequence of
negociations which he was carrying on with the Chinese high officers who
had been appointed by the emperor to treat for peace. Full powers had
been given to three commissioners, Keying, Elepoo, and Newkéén, to
negociate a treaty of peace which was finally concluded on the 26th of
August. The conditions of this treaty were:--That the Chinese should
pay 21,000,000 dollars; that the ports of Canton, Amoy, Foo-chow-foo,
Ning-po, and Shang-hae, should be open to British merchants, with
permission to consular officers to reside there; that the island
of Hong-Kong should be ceded to the British in perpetuity; that
correspondence should be conducted on terms of perfect equality between
the officers of both governments; and that the islands of Chusan and
Kolang-soo should be held by the British until the money payments were
made and arrangements for opening the ports completed.


CHAPTER LIV.

{VICTORIA. 1843--1844}

     State of the Country..... Meeting of Parliament.....
     National Distress..... The Corn-law Question..... Address to
     the Crown on the Subject of Education..... Affairs of India,
     &c...... The Corn-law  Question  resumed..... Irish
     Affairs..... Financial   Statements,   &c......
     Education..... Church   Extension, &c...... Law Reform.....
     Prorogation of Parliament..... Agitation; Ireland.....
     Formation of the Free Church in Scotland..... The State  of
     India..... Continental Affairs.


STATE OF THE COUNTRY.

{A.D. 1843}

AT the opening of this year the aspect of public affairs was such as to
create disquietude and anxiety. In every branch of trade and industry
there was great depression, which was by some attributed to the workings
of the new tariff, and by others to a groundless panic occasioned by
that measure. Whatever it arose from it certainly existed; and the fact
of its existence was clearly proved by the diminished consumption of
those articles which contribute in so large a proportion to the public
revenue. The total decrease in the excise, stamps, customs, and taxes
on the quarter was £1,379,057, which was equivalent to a total yearly
deficiency of £5,516,222. The distress which prevailed naturally
give rise to various opinions as to the remedies to be applied. Some
suggested and advocated the repeal of the corn-laws; others threw the
blame upon the income-tax, and the other financial measures of Sir
Robert Peel's government; some attributed the distress to the poor-laws;
and others pointed to emigration as the natural safety-valve and outlet
for the pressure of a too rapidly increasing population. All these
subjects were discussed at length in both houses of parliament; but few
practical results arose from these discussions.


MEETING OF PARLIAMENT.

Parliament was opened by commission on the 2nd of February. The speech,
read by the lord-chancellor, referred to a treaty which had been
concluded with the United States of America and the adjustment of
differences which, from their long continuance had endangered the
preservation of peace. Allusion was also made to the termination of
hostilities in China; and a hope expressed "that, by the free access
which would be opened to the principal mart of that populous and
extensive empire, encouragement would be given to the commercial
enterprise of her majesty's people." The speech continued:--"In
concert with her allies, her majesty has succeeded in obtaining for
the Christian population of Syria, the establishment of a system of
administration which they were entitled to expect from the engagements
of the Sultan, and from the good faith of the country. The differences
for some time existing between tire Turkish and Persian governments
had recently led to acts of hostility; but as each of these states has
accepted the joint mediation of Great Britain and Russia, her majesty
entertains a confident hope that their mutual relations will be speedily
and amicably adjusted. Her majesty has concluded with the Emperor of
Russia a treaty of commerce and navigation, which will be laid before
you. Her majesty regards this treaty with great satisfaction, as the
foundation for increased intercourse between her majesty's subjects
and those of the emperor." The affairs of India and the events in
Afghanistan were next adverted to; satisfaction being expressed at the
victories obtained "on the scenes of former disasters." Concerning
the decrease of revenue the speech remarked:--"Her majesty regrets the
diminished receipt from some of the ordinary sources of revenue.
Her majesty fears that it must be in part attributed to the reduced
consumption of many articles, caused by that depression of the
manufacturing industry of the country which has so long prevailed, and
which her majesty has so deeply lamented. In considering, however, the
present state of the revenue, her majesty is assured that you will
bear in mind, that it has been materially affected by the extensive
reductions in the import duties which received your sanction during the
last session of parliament, and that little progress has hitherto
been made in the collection of those taxes, which were imposed for the
purpose of supplying the deficiency from that and other causes. Her
majesty feels confident that the future produce of the revenue will be
sufficient to meet every exigency of the public service." The speech
concluded by adverting to her majesty's recent visit to Scotland;
to disturbances which had taken place in some of the manufacturing
districts; and to measures connected with the improvement of the law
which were to be brought forward during this session.

The address was agreed to, and the house adjourned.

In the house of commons also the address was agreed to without a
division, and the house adjourned.


NATIONAL DISTRESS.

Allusion had been made in the royal speech to the distress which
pervaded the country at this time; and in this state of things Lord
Howick give notice for a committee of the whole house to investigate the
causes of this distress. The debate commenced on the 18th of February,
by Lord Howick, calling attention to the paragraph in her majesty's
speech referring to diminished revenue. This having been read by the
clerk at the table, his lordship then moved that the house do now
resolve itself into a committee upon the said passage in her majesty's
speech. The debate on the motion continued during five nights: various
members on both sides of the house supporting or opposing the motion. On
the fifth and last night Mr. Cobden said that his chief objection to
the motion was, that it did not include agricultural as well as
manufacturing distress. The agricultural labourers were in a wretched
state; neither them nor the farmers were any gainers by the corn-laws.
With neither of these classes had landlords any right to identify
themselves. The landlord was no agriculturist: he might live all his
days in London or in Paris. He was no more an agriculturist than a
shipowner was a sailor. The real agriculturists were beginning to get a
glimmering of light upon this question. The member for Dorsetshire had
attacked the league; he protested against the notion that the league had
been the movers of sedition and assassination. He would next inquire
why the present motion was to be resisted by the government. When Sir R.
Peel took the reins of government, he took with them the responsibility
of introducing the measures necessary for the country..The ministers
were advocates of free-trade: why did they not carry it into effect?
They adopted it, it was said, only in the abstract: the house had
nothing to do with abstractions. Length of time was pleaded; he should
like to know whether that would be a defence to the claim of a just
plaintiff in a court of law? It could not be said that the period was
unsuitable; the year lay before them, and there was no pressure of
legislative business, publie or private. Had government any other
remedy? They had last year imposed a corn-law which gave umbrage to
all classes of mercantile men. That law had not given any extension to
regular trade, and had ruined the speculators. The tariff had reduced
the duty on seven hundred articles, and had omitted the only two which
would have done anything for tire people--corn and sugar. Sir R. Peel
had it in his power to carry the measures necessary for the people; and
if he had not that power as a minister, he would have it by resigning
his office. The right honourable baronet should be held responsible
individually: the electoral body would compel him to do them justice.
Sir Robert Peel declared that no responsibility which Mr. Cobden could
fix upon him, or induce others to fix upon him, should deter him from
doing his duty. He then proceeded to analyse the nature of the motion,
in order to show that it could not be conceded. It was not a motion, he
said, to inquire into the causes of the distress; but a motion that the
house should resolve itself into a committee of the whole house, Lord
Howiok having some proposition to bring forward for the relief of the
distress. Lord John Russell justified the form of the present motion,
and the fitness of the time at whicli it was brought forward; but on a
division it was rejected by a majority of three hundred and six against
one hundred and ninety-one.


ADDRESS TO THE CROWN ON THE SUBJECT OF EDUCATION.

On the 28 th of February Lord Ashley moved the following resolution
in the house of commons:--"That an humble address be presented to her
majesty, praying that her majesty will be graciously pleased to take
into her instant and serious consideration the best means of diffusing
the benefits and blessings of a moral and religious education among the
working classes of her people." The motion was agreed to.


AFFAIRS OF INDIA, ETC.

In the early part of this session, some interesting discussions
occurred in both houses of parliament, on the recent events and military
operations in India. The first of these discussions took place on the
9th of February, when Mr. Vernon Smith moved for the production of some
papers relative to Indian affairs. The motion was agreed to.

The following resolutions, after considerable discussion, were carried
in both houses:--"That the thanks of this liouse be given to the
Right Honourable Lord Ellenborough, governor-general of the British
possessions in the East Indies, for the ability and judgment with which
the resources of the British empire in India have been applied to the
support of the military operations in Affghanistan. That the thanks
of this house be given to Major-general Sir George Pollock, G.C.B.,
to Major-general Sir William Nott, G.C.B., to Major-general Sir John
M'Gaskill, K.C.B., to Major-general Richard England, and the other
officers of the army, both European and native, for the intrepidity,
skill, and perseverance displayed by them in the military operations in
Affghanistan, and for their indefatigable zeal and exertions throughout
the late campaign. That this house doth highly approve and acknowledge
the valour and patient perseverance displayed by the noncommissioned
officers and private soldiers, both European and native, employed in
Affghanistan, and that the same be signified to them by the commanders
of the several corps, who are desired to thank them for their gallant
behaviour." About the same time resolutions were passed both in the
lords and commons, with respect to the services of the fleet and army
employed in the late operations in China. The affairs of India became
the subject of discussion again in the house of commons on the 2nd of
March, when Mr. Roebuck moved for a select committee to inquire into the
causes which led to the late war in Affghanistan; but it ended in
mere words: the motion was rejected by a majority of one hundred and
eighty-nine against seventy-five.


THE CORN-LAW QUESTION RESUMED.

This great question--a question which interested all parties, and all
classes of society--formed the subject of several debates during this
session. It was first brought prominently forward by Mr. Ward, who,
on the 14th of March, moved, "That a select committee be appointed to
inquire whether there are any peculiar burdens especially affecting the
landed interest of this country, or any peculiar exemptions enjoyed by
that interest; and to ascertain their nature and extent." This motion
was negatived, after a lengthened discussion, by a large majority; but,
on the 13th of May, the whole subject of the corn-laws was brought under
discussion upon the motion annually brought forward by Mr. Villiers, for
a committee of the whole house to consider the duties on the importation
of foreign corn. This was met by Mr. Gladstone with a direct negative.
The most remarkable speeches delivered were those of Sir Robert Peel and
Mr. Cobden. Mr. Cobden combated the notion that if the corn-laws were
repealed, the whole system of revenue must be cut down; and declared
that the anti-corn-law league would persist in agitation until the
attainment of their object. On a division, the motion was rejected by
a majority of three hundred and eighty-one against one hundred and
twenty-five. Another general debate on the same subject occupied the
house on the 13th of June, when Lord John Russell again proposed the
consideration of the corn-laws in a committee of the whole house;
which, however, was negatived by a large majority. But, previous to this
debate, a measure partially effecting the operation of the corn-laws had
been proposed in the house of commons by Lord Stanley, the secretary for
the colonies. His lordship moved the following resolutions--"Resolved
that, on the 12th day of October, 1842, an act was passed by the
legislative council and legislative assembly of the province of Canada,
and reserved by the governor-general for the signification of her
majesty's pleasure, imposing a duty of 3s., sterling money of Great
Britain, on each imperial quarter of wheat imported into Canada, except
from the United Kingdom, or any of her majesty's possessions, and being
the growth and produce thereof. That the said act recites that it was
passed in the confident belief and expectation that, upon the imposition
of a duty upon foreign wheat imported into the province, her majesty
would be graciously pleased to recommend to parliament the removal or
reduction of the duties on wheat and wheat flour imported into the
said United Kingdom from Canada. That, in consideration of the duty so
imposed by the said act of the legislature of Canada, it is expedient
to provide that, if her majesty shall be pleased to give her sanction
to the said act, the duties imposed upon wheat and wheat flour imported
into the United Kingdom from Canada should be reduced. That, during the
continuance of the said duty, in lieu of the duties now payable upon
wheat and wheat flour imported into the United Kingdom from Canada,
under an act passed in the last session of parliament, entitled 'An act
to amend the laws for the importation of corn,' there shall be levied
and paid the duties following:--viz., for every quarter of wheat,
1s.; for every barrel of wheat, meal, or flour, being one hundred
and ninety-six pounds, a duty equal in amount to the duty payable on
thirty-eight and a half gallons of wheat." In moving these resolutions,
Lord Stanley said that exaggerated notions of the measure had prevailed
on all sides; and if he had not given a direct promise to the Canadian
legislature, he would not have brought forward a question tending to
create uneasiness among them. He brought it forward, in fact, only as a
boon to Canada, which he had reason to expect, and of which the refusal
would be highly injurious to her interests and feelings. His proposal
was, not to let American wheat into England, but to let into England
Canadian wheat, and flour ground in Canada, from whatever growth it
might be manufactured. That was in accordance with the broad principle
of the navigation act--"that all manufactured goods shall be deemed
to be the produce of the country in which they are manufactured." The
resolutions of Lord Stanley, after a stormy debate, were confirmed by
a majority of two hundred and forty-four against one hundred and
eighty-eight. A few days afterwards the house went into committee on
them, when Lord John Russell moved an amendment, which proposed to
omit that part of them which referred to the Canadian legislature, his
lordship objecting to the making of the legislation of the imperial
depend on that of the colonial parliament. Lord Stanley defended the
course taken by government as necessary to secure the object; and
after a desultory conversation, the amendment was negatived. Another
amendment, to the effect that no alteration should be made in the
corn-law of the preceding session, and in the degrees of protection
which it afforded to British agriculture, was moved by Lord Worsley;
but this also was negatived; and after some further discussion the house
divided on the original resolutions, which were carried by a majority
of two hundred and eighteen against one hundred and thirty-seven. On the
2nd of June, a bill founded on the resolutions was brought in when Lord
Worsley moved that it be read that day six months. This led to a renewed
debate on the measure: but ultimately the second reading was carried
by a majority of two hundred and nine against one hundred and nine. A
debate in the house of lords took place on the committal of the bill,
which was moved by Earl Dalhousie on the 4th of July. Lord Brougham
seconded the motion, not "because the measure was a step in the right
direction "--that is, towards the removal of the corn-laws--"but because
it removed an anomaly." Earl Stanhope moved, as an amendment, that
the bill be committed that day six months; and he was supported in
his opposition by the Duke of Richmond, the Earl of Radnor, and Lords
Beaumont and Teynham. The amendment was, however, negatived by a
majority of fifty-seven against twenty-five. The house subsequently went
into committee, and the bill passed without amendment.


IRISH AFFAIRS.

Towards the close of the session the unusually agitated state of
Ireland, produced by the repeal movement, noticed in a subsequent
article, gave rise to angry debates in parliament. In the month of May
ministers proposed a bill requiring the registration of firearms, and
restricting the importation of arms and ammunition. The second reading
of this bill was moved on the 29th of May by Lord Eliot, the secretary
for Ireland, who, in introducing the subject, gave a short history of
the origin and successive renewal of the Irish arms acts, beginning with
the 33rd George III. c. 2, and ending with the bill introduced by Lord
Morpeth in 1838. This measure was opposed with uncommon energy and skill
by the Irish Roman Catholic members, and by several liberal Protestants
among the representatives of Ireland. Messrs. Hume, Roebuck, Buller, and
other liberal representatives of Great Britain were also its strenuous
opponents. Mr. Shiel, always eloquent, made a brilliant speech in
resisting it, which won members of various schools of politics to his
opinion. The general feeling of the house and of the country was in
favour of the bill, and the Protestants of Ireland declared by their
petitions, and through their representatives, that it was necessary to
their safety, as in many districts of the country property and life were
in constant danger, armed bands of lawless ruffians prowling about by
night, committing outrage, incendiarism, and murder upon those who were
obnoxious to their political or religious opinions. The second reading
was carried by a majority of two hundred and seventy against one hundred
and five. On the motion for committing the bill, Mr. Smith O'Brien
moved as an amendment, "that a select committee be appointed to inquire
whether the condition of Ireland was such as to require statutory
enactments different from those of Great Britain; and, if so, to
ascertain to what cause the difference of legislation was to be
attributed." This amendment was negatived without a division, and the
bill was then ordered to be committed. In the committee the measure
encountered the most pertinacious and protracted opposition from many
members, who moved repeated amendments, and divided again and again on
some of the most obnoxious sections. It was, in fact, the 9th of August
before the Irish arms bill reached its final stage in the house of
commons. On that day Lord Eliot moved that it should be read a third
time, which motion was met by an amendment by Lord Clements, that it be
read a third time that day six months. Another warm discussion followed,
but the bill was carried by a majority of one hundred and twenty-five
against fifty-nine. In the house of lords two nights' discussion took
place upon the bill; but it met with a much easier passage in that
house, and towards the close of August it passed into law.

In the meantime discussions of a different nature took place in
both houses of parliament on Irish affairs. On the 14th of July Lord
Clanricarde moved resolutions declaring the dismissal of certain
magistrates by the Lord Chancellor, for taking part in the movement
in favour of repeal, unconstitutional, unjust, and inexpedient.
Their dismissal, he said, had given a great impulse to the prevailing
agitation, manifested by the rise in the repeal-rent; and he imputed
the state of Ireland, bordering on anarchy, to the policy of the present
government. The Duke of Wellington met these resolutions by a direct
negative, and contended that repeal agitation originated in the time
of the later ministers; the acts impugned were forced upon the present
administration. A long discussion ensued; but on a division the
resolutions were negatived by a majority of ninety-one against
twenty-nine. The state of Ireland again came under discussion in the
house of lords on the 8th of August, when Lord Rod en presented a
petition from upwards of five thousand of her majesty's Protestant loyal
subjects residing in the county of Down, praying for measures to repress
the rebellious spirit in Ireland, and expressing surprise at seeing
the marked difference made between Protestants and Roman Catholics in
respect of the enforcement of the law against processions.

In the house of commons, on the 4th of July, Mr. Smith O'Brien moved,
"That this house will resolve into a committee for the purpose of taking
into consideration the causes of the discontent prevailing in Ireland,
with a view to the redress of grievances, and to the establishment of
a system of just and impartial government in that part of the United
Kingdom." The debate which this motion gave rise to occupied five
nights, and, unlike the other debates on Irish affairs, it was conducted
in a calm, practical, and dispassionate temper. The chief speakers for
the motion were Messrs. Wyse, Charles Wood, Smythe, Mr. J. O'Con-nell,
Captain Rous, and Viscount Howick; against it, Lord Eliot, Sirs J.
Graham and R. Peel, and Messrs. B. Cochrane, Lascelles, and Colquhoun.
On a division the motion was negatived, by a majority of two hundred and
forty-three against one hundred and sixty-four.


FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.

Mr. Goulburn made his annual statement of ways and means on the 8th of
May. His statements were by no means cheering. The revenue, he said,
calculated upon by Sir Robert Peel for the year, from the customs, had
been £22,000,000, but the actual produce had only reached £21,750,000.
On the estimated produce of the excise, there had also been a deficiency
of £1,200,000; and upon the whole the revenue had fallen short of the
estimate by somewhat more than £2,000,000. That defalcation, however,
had been diminished to about £1,250,000, by a payment from China of
about £725,000. Against the deficiency thus constituted also was to be
set the produce of the income-tax, which had exceeded the expectation
formed of it: the net revenue from that source would be about
£5,100,000. It might be asked, Mr. Goulburn continued, in what way he
intended to meet the deficiency:--he had no new measure to propose; his
calculation was, that the causes which had occasioned the deficiency
of the last year were of a temporary character; that in the next and
subsequent years there would be a surplus of revenue, and out of that he
proposed to discharge the deficiency of the past year. Mr. Goulburn next
proceeded to present his estimate for the ensuing year. There were two
heavy charges, he said, which did not form part of the ordinary expenses
of the year--the one a payment of £800,000 to the owners of opium seized
in China; the other a payment of £1,250,000 to the East India Company,
on account of expenses borne by them for the Chinese war. He proposed
to advance the money requisite for these two payments, and to take
repayment from the future remittances of China. The total estimate of
revenue stated by Mr. Goulburn was £50,150,000, in which, however, he
included a sum of £870,000 from the Chinese government; and the
total estimated outlay was £49,387,645, which being deducted from the
£50,150,000, would leave a surplus of £762,000 in favour of revenue
above expenditure. In conclusion, the chancellor of the exchequer said,
that though he was not in a condition to make a flattering statement of
the country's resources, he trusted the time was not far distant when he
should be able to come down with a proposal for easing the industry of
the country by important resolutions. He moved a vote of £47,943,000,
which, after some discussion, was granted.

At a later period of the session the state of the public finances was
made the subject of debate in the house of lords. On the 14th of August
Lord Monteagle moved this series of resolutions:--"1. That this house
observes with much concern and disappointment, that the expectation held
out of a surplus revenue, exceeding £500,000, for the year ending the
5th of April. 1843, has not been realized; but that there has been an
actual deficiency of £2,421,000, notwithstanding the imposition of a tax
on property, the application to the public service within the year of
£511,406, obtained from the government of China, and a receipt exceeding
£1,300,000, as duties upon grain imported. 2. That the charge for
the permanent debt has been increased during the last two years,
the exchequer balances have been reduced, and upwards of £1,000,000
exchequer-bills held by the trustees of the savings' banks converted
into stock. 3. That under these circumstances it is most peculiarly the
duty of the legislature, and of her majesty's government, to enforce the
strictest economy which is consistent with the public service, and
to adopt all such measures as may increase the ordinary revenue, by
insuring to British industry, whether agricultural, manufacturing, or
commercial, its widest and freest extension, and its largest reward;
thus averting from the country the calamity of the re-enactment of a
tax upon property in time of peace, and promoting the well-being of
all classes of her majesty's subjects." The object of Lord Monteagle in
introducing these resolutions was to vindicate the Whig administration
of the public finances, and to show that the same line of conduct which
had been censured in the late ministry had been pursued by the present
government. His lordship delivered a long and able speech to this end,
which was replied to with equal ability by the Duke of Wellington and
Lord Brougham.

Another question, involving fiscal considerations, which occupied
the attention of parliament, related to the sugar duties. Government
proposed a renewal of tire duties of the year preceding, on which
the free-trade party in the house of commons made their usual protest
against the preference shown to the produce of the British colonies. On
the 22nd of June, when it was moved that the speaker should leave the
chair, in order to the house going into committee on the subject, Mr.
Cobden moved: "That it is not expedient to compel payment of a higher
price for colonial than for other commodities; and that, therefore, all
protective duties on colonial produce ought to be abolished." As this
resolution, however, extended further than the mere sugar question, on
which it had been moved "that the speaker leave the chair," it could not
be put; and the house then went into committee on the sugar duties.
In committee Mr. Ewart, who condemned the policy of government on this
subject, proposed that one uniform duty on foreign and colonial sugar
should be levied; but this motion was lost by a majority of one hundred
and thirty-five against eighty-five. Mr. Hawes subsequently proposed
that the house should cease to maintain an impost which was equivalent
to total prohibition, and should lower the duty to 34s.; but this was
negatived by a still larger majority, and the proposition of government
was confirmed. On a later day, the 17th of July, another important
article of traffic was brought under consideration. As an amendment on
the motion for going into a committee of supply, Mr. Charles Wood moved
"that the house do resolve itself into a committee of the whole house,
to consider so much of the 5th and 6th Victoria, c. 47, customs' act, as
relates to the duties on the importation of foreign sheeps' and lambs'
wool." Mr. Wood supported his motion on the ground that the trade
had been declining for nearly thirty years; but it was opposed by the
chancellor of the exchequer; and after a desultory conversation, it was
rejected by a majority of one hundred and forty-two against seventy.
About the same time, however, government showed that they were not
disinclined to all further commercial relaxation; for at their instance
the restrictions on the importation of machinery, imposed by an act of
King William the Fourth, were taken off. A bill for this purpose was
brought in by the president of the board of trade, and, being supported
by all parties in the house, passed without difficulty. After some
opposition from Earl Stanhope, it was subsequently carried in the lords,
and was incorporated finally into "an act for amending the customs,"
which received the royal assent before the close of the session.


EDUCATION.

It has already been seen that, on the motion of Lord Ashley, an address
was voted to the crown on the subject of the education of the working
classes. The queen's answer to this address was delivered by Earl Jermyn
at the bar of the house, on the 8th of March. It read thus:--"I have
received your loyal and dutiful address. The attention of my government
had been previously directed to the important object of increasing the
moral and religious education among the working classes of my people;
and the assurance of your cordial co-operation in measures which I
consider so necessary, confirms my hope that this blessing will be
secured by legislative enactment." On the same day Sir James Graham
introduced his promised bill for regulating the employment of children
and young persons in factories. Its clauses were, in fact, strongly
opposed both in parliament and by the people, being objected to chiefly
on the ground of giving a too exclusive management of the schools to
the clergy of the church of England, thereby prejudicing dissenters and
Roman Catholics. This objection was forcibly urged by several members
in the discussion which ensued; while, on the other hand, it was
controverted by several members with equal force. Avoiding this source
of contention, Lord Ashley earnestly enforced the arguments respecting
the necessity of the measure. The bill was finally read a second time.
The measure, however, met with so much opposition from the dissenting
and Roman Catholic bodies, and appeared to be so distasteful to a large
section of the community, that Sir James Graham, on the 1st of May,
produced a series of amendments which had been prepared by government.
But although the bill was thus altered to meet the views of all classes,
it was still strenuously opposed by several members, though eventually
it was recommitted. Such was the animosity still displayed by the Roman
Catholic and dissenting bodies against the measure, that government
at length came to the resolution of abandoning it. The home secretary
announced this intention on the 15th of June, on which occasion he
promised to state on an early day the future intentions of government.
In fulfilment of this promise, on the 19th he declared that government
did not mean to give up the remainder of the factories' bill; and on his
motion it was recommitted.


CHURCH EXTENSION, ETC.

On the 5th of May Sir Robert Peel brought forward, in a committee of the
whole house, a plan for relieving the spiritual wants of the kingdom by
the endowment of additional churches, and augmentation of small livings.
In explaining his measure, the right honourable baronet said that at the
end of 1834 he had advised the crown to issue a commission to ascertain
whether aid might not be obtained for religious instruction from
ecclesiastical resources. The result of the inquiries of this commission
had been to show that the revenues of certain bishoprics, cathedrals,
and other ecclesiastical establishments, were larger than their purposes
required. The commissioners recommended the transfer of such surplus
receipts of the church to a new fund, which now amounted to £25,000.
Out of this fund about £16,700 per annum had been applied to the
augmentation of small livings; and other analogous purposes had been
marked out, which, with the sum applied for, would absorb about
£32,000. In a few years the fund would be increased by the falling in of
canonries and other preferments; and the question was whether it would
be better to wait till that increase should have been realized, or to
anticipate that increase by some immediate measure. Government were in
favour of the latter course, and for this purpose it would be necessary
to combine the instrumentality of two bodies--the ecclesiastical
commissioners and the board of Queen Anne's bounty for the augmentation
of small livings. The latter board possessed about £1,200,000, invested
in the funds; and what he now proposed, was to authorize the advance
of £600,000 by this board, to the ecclesiastical commissioners, on the
security of the before-mentioned revenue of the ecclesiastical fund,
existing and hereafter accruing. This advance to the extent of £30,000
a year he would apply in endowments for ministers of the church of
England; and that annual sum, with the interest on the principal at
three per cent., being £18,000 a year, would in seventeen years
exhaust the whole. By that time the accumulation in the hands of the
ecclesiastical commissioners would, even upon the narrowest calculation,
exceed £100,000 a year, and the commissioners would thenceforth continue
the £18,000 a year interest, and the proposed augmentation of £30,000 a
year, together with the £32,000 already applied, or destined by them
to similar or analogous purposes; and they would then possess a
considerable surplus, applicable to future improvement. In conclusion,
Sir Robert Peel said that he should have rejoiced if he could likewise
have carried a grant of public money for these purposes with general
good-will; but he did not think that a public grant without such
good-will would have effectually accomplished the benefits which he
anticipated from the application of ecclesiastical revenues. Several
members spoke in terms of approbation of the measure, and the motion was
unanimously voted.

The great secession in the church of Scotland gave occasion to the
introduction of a bill proposed by Lord Aberdeen, on the part of the
government to remove doubts respecting the admission of ministers to
benefices. This bill provided that the presbytery, or church court,
to which objections should be referred to be cognosced, should be
authorized to inquire into the whole circumstances of the parish, and
the character and number of persons by whom the objections and reasons
should be preferred; and if the presentee should be found not qualified
or suitable for that particular parish, the presbytery should pronounce
to that effect, and should set forth the special grounds upon which
their judgment was founded. The bill further abolished the veto, to
guard against any doubt or difficulty on that point; providing that it
shall not be lawful for any presbytery, or other ecclesiastical court,
to reject any presentee upon the ground of any mere dissent or dislike,
expressed in any part of the congregation of the parish in which he
was presented, and which dissent or dislike should not be founded upon
objections or reasons to be fully cognosced, judged of, and determined
in the manner aforesaid, by the presbytery, or other ecclesiastical
court. Lord Aberdeen declared his belief that the adoption of this
measure would retain in the establishment a numerous body of ministers
then in a state of suspense. Those parish ministers who had seceded
were about two hundred and forty, or one-fourth of the whole number; the
unendowed ministers, about two hundred, or about one-third of the entire
clergy of Scotland. He-did not apprehend, he said, any fatal consequence
from the secession; but the bill would tend to tranquillise those who
remained within the pale. The measure encountered the most strenuous
opposition of Lords Brougham, Cottingham, and Campbell in all its
stages; but it passed the upper house, and was introduced in the commons
by Sir James Graham on the 31st of July. After explaining the nature of
the bill, and supporting it by all the arguments he could bring forward
in its favour, the right honourable baronet expressed a hope that the
church of Scotland would find a haven of peace and security, and in that
spirit of hope and peace he moved its second reading. Mr. Wallace said
that the bill would create more doubts than had heretofore existed, and
would make the people renounce the church; on which grounds he moved
that it be read that day six months. This amendment was supported by
Lord John Russell, and Messrs. Rutherford, Hume, Cochrane, and
Alexander Campbell. On the other hand the bill was supported by the
solicitor-general, Sir George Clerk, Mr. Hope Johnstone, and Sir Robert
Peel; and on a division the second reading was carried by a majority of
ninety-eight against eighty. The opponents of the measure renewed their
attempts of throwing it out on the motion for going into committee, when
Mr. P. M. Stewart moved that it be committed that day three months; but
this was negatived, and the bill finally passed, and received the royal
assent.


LAW REFORM.

Several reforms in the law were made during this session. One of the
most important of these changes was the registration act. This passed
the commons without any difficulty; and the second reading of the bill
was moved in the upper house by Lord Wharncliffe, on which occasion his
lordship thus explained its leading provisions. The objects of the bill,
he said, were first, to establish in every part of the country a real
and _bona fide_ list of voters; secondly, to settle certain doubts with
respect to qualifications which had arisen in the revising barristers'
courts; and, thirdly, to prevent the personation of voters, or the
possibility of individuals voting twice at the same election. One of the
greatest alterations in the bill was that which related to the right of
voting, as it depended on the payment of taxes. As the law at present
stood a person could not have his name placed on the list of voters
unless he had paid all his rates and taxes up to the time of making his
claim. By this bill it was provided, that persons should be allowed
to have their names inserted in the list of voters if they paid, on or
before the 20th of July next ensuing after making their claim, all the
poor's-rates and assessed taxes payable from them for twelve calendar
months before the 6th day of the preceding April. One great objection to
the existing law was, that the decisions of the revising barristers
were final; but by this measure an appeal from their decisions, on legal
points, was allowed to the court of common-pleas. Provision was also
made to clear up doubtful points as to the right of voting in counties,
and likewise with reference to the place where a claim to the right
of voting should be made, when the party resided in an extra-parochial
district where there was no overseer. Another important point provided
for by the bill was that which related to votes on account of trusts on
mortgage estates. It was now provided that no mortgagee of any lands
or tenements should have a vote for members unless he was in actual
possession or receipt of the rents and profits of the lands or tenements
mortgaged; but that the mortgager in actual possession, or in receipt
of the rents or profits, should be allowed to vote in respect of the
property, notwithstanding the mortgage. Another bill carried this
session made some alterations in the law relating to defamation and
libel. By this bill, which was introduced by Lord Campbell, it was made
lawful to give evidence of the truth of the allegations complained of in
any criminal proceedings for libel, but subject to this limitation--that
the truth shall not, _ipso facto_, constitute a defence, unless the
party shall also make out that the publication of it was for the
public benefit. Provision was also made for the case of publication
of libellous matter by inadvertence in newspapers. In such case the
defendant was empowered to plead the facts in extenuation, and also
to pay money into court by way of amends. Other clauses were directed
against that nefarious system practised by some conductors of
newspapers, who drive a trade in slander; while others imposed
additional penalties upon those who make the publication of libels,
or the threat of such publication, a means of extorting money from
individuals. Two other measures brought in by government during this
session--namely, a measure for the reform of the ecclesiastical court,
and a bill for the extension of county courts--were not received with so
much favour as the preceding: both met with stern opposition, and were
in consequence postponed.


PROROGATION OF PARLIAMENT.

Parliament was prorogued by the queen in person on the 24th of August.
In the speech her majesty alluded with satisfaction to the various
measures passed during the session; and thanked both houses for the
measures they had adopted for enabling her to give full effect to the
several treaties which had been concluded with foreign powers. Her
majesty also alluded to the lawless combinations and commotions which
had disturbed the public peace in some districts of Wales; and to the
agitation in Ireland for a repeal of the legislative union.


AGITATION IN IRELAND, FORMATION OF THE FREE CHURCH IN SCOTLAND, ETC.

After the attainment of the Roman Catholic relief act, Mr. O'Connell had
from time to time held out the repeal of the legislative union to the
deluded people of Ireland as the great ultimatum, in his view, for
their benefit. His exertions in this pursuit were at times relaxed, or
diverted in favour of some other object; and there were many who
thought his sincerity in this matter demanded a doubt. During this
year, however, he took up the cause of repeal with redoubled energy.
Abandoning the house of commons, he gave himself wholly up to the task
of raising the banner of national independence in Ireland. In this work
he resorted to the same plan of organization which had been adopted
with success in prosecuting the Roman Catholic claims. An association,
indeed, for the furtherance of repeal, provided with all the machinery
requisite to give effect to its comprehensive designs, formed the main
instrument by which the union was to be assailed. This body, which was
styled the National Loyal Repeal Association, consisted of associates,
members, and volunteers. The distinction of these classes was marked
out by money-payments; for it was the "rent" to which the agitator was
mainly looking. Thus associates were to pay one shilling each; while
members were to pay one pound each. Cards were issued to all sections of
the association; but those issued to members, or those who paid the most
"rent," were distinct from the rest. This card bore the names of four
places in Ireland, the scenes of fights in which the Irish had conquered
either the Danes or the English. A printed document described these
victories. In another part of the card the geographical position of
Ireland was contrasted with various states with the following words
underneath:--"Ireland has not a parliament." The card further set forth
the revenue expended by Ireland during the last great war in France, and
stated that the commander-in-chief, and two-thirds of the officers and
men of the English army and navy on that occasion were Irishmen. Added
to these features there was a scroll at the top of the card, bearing the
following words:--"Resolved unanimously that the claims of any body of
men, other than the king, lords, and commons of Ireland to make laws to
bind this kingdom are unconstitutional, illegal, and a grievance;" which
resolution was agreed to by the Dungannon volunteers in 1782. At the
bottom of the card was an extract from a speech of Mr. Saurin, declaring
the union not to be binding on conscience. In addition to the several
kinds of members, the Repeal Association comprised officer's, consisting
of general inspectors, repeal-wardens, and collectors. Repeal-wardens
were appointed by the association on the recommendation of the clergymen
of their parishes; and a book of instruction was prepared, in which the
several functions which they were to execute were described. One leading
branch of their duties was the transmission and circulation among the
associates in every district of certain newspapers devoted to the repeal
cause, to be purchased out of the subscriptions in aid of the general
object. The main object of the association appears to have been to
provide a machinery of the most effective kind for the collection of
funds, and to train the people to combination, and prepare them for
simultaneous movements at the bidding of their leaders. How well
calculated it was for the former object the weekly reports of the "rent"
show; and its effectiveness in the latter design was proved by the
"monster meetings," which were held at Trim, Mullingar, and other places
throughout Ireland. At all these meetings the most violent language was
used by Mr. O'Connell and his coadjutors; and government was importuned
to adopt some energetic measures for the suppression of this dangerous
conspiracy. The only measures, however, adopted by the ministry for some
time was the Irish arms bill, and the removing from the commission of
the peace the names of those magistrates who attended or participated
in any of the repeal meetings. But the more lenient government showed
itself, the more bold and insolent the repealers became. At a "monster
meeting" held at Tara on the 15th of August, Mr. O'Connell spoke
out with unequivocal significancy. Another "monster meeting" was
subsequently held at Roscommon, which Mr. O'Connell said, from its
numbers, ought "to strike their enemies with terror, and to give their
friends a great consolation." At a later period of the year other
"monster meetings" were held; and at each succeeding meeting the
language of the repealers grew bolder and bolder. At length government
was roused to action. A great meeting was announced for the 8th of
October, to be held at Clontarf, the scene of an Irish victory over
the Danes; and the programme of the proceedings to take place on this
occasion, and the regulations to be observed by those who should attend
it, had been announced with more than common ostentation and solemnity.
Against this meeting government issued a proclamation; and as soon as
the issue of it was known, Mr. O'Connell called a special meeting of the
repeal association, at which, speaking with marked calmness, he said, in
consequence of the step taken by government, there would be no meeting
on the next day at Clontarf. A counter-proclamation was adopted by this
meeting, in which the abandonment of the intended assembling at Clontarf
was announced, and the people were exhorted not to assemble. As,
however, the proclamation and the counter-proclamation were issued only
the day before the intended meeting was to take place, thousands knew
nothing of their promulgation, and consequently repaired to Clontarf, in
the expectation of meeting their leaders. Instead of Mr. O'Connell
and his associates, they met with troops; and thus disappointed, they
returned home. Happily the day passed off with tranquillity; for,
notwithstanding the vast concourse who thronged to the scene throughout
the day, no disturbance took place. But the operations of government
against the repealers did not stop here. À few days afterwards the
public were startled by the announcement of the arrest of Mr. O'Connell
and his coadjutors, on charges of conspiracy, sedition, and unlawful
assembling. Mr. O'Connell entered into recognisances, himself in £1000,
with two sureties of £500 each, to abide his trial on the charges
preferred against him. Both Mr. O'Connell and his coadjutors were
bound to appear on the first day of Michaelmas term, at the court of
Queen's-Bench at Dublin; and on their appearance the grand jury brought
in the indictment, "a true bill;" but the proceedings of the trial were
so much hindered by the various pretexts of the prisoners' counsel,
that it was finally agreed that it should be deferred till the 15th of
January, 1844.

One of the most remarkable events which occurred in the course of this
year, was the secession of a considerable number of the ministers
and laity of the established church of Scotland from that body. This
secession arose out of a controversy which had been raised upon the
limits of ecclesiastical and civil jurisdiction, and the agitation which
had been produced in tire minds of the non-intrusion party since
the adverse decision of the law-courts and the house of lords in the
Auchterarder case. The final act of separation took place in the month
of May, during the meeting of the General Assembly of the church of
Scotland. A committee had been appointed to consider the propriety of
separation; and on the 22nd of May, at a general meeting in the church
of Dr. Candlish, the report of this committee was produced, and a
resolution incorporating the recommendations of the report was adopted,
in which it was resolved that an act of separation should be reported
to the Assembly on the morrow. The next day, accordingly, the act of
separation was produced; which act solemnly renounced for those who
should affix their names to it the status, privileges, and emoluments
derived from the establishment, reserving to ministers the right to act
as pastors of particular congregations, or portions thereof, adhering to
them, with the rights and benefits accruing from the ministers' widows'
fund. This document contained an order that the act of separation should
be transmitted to the Moderator of the General Assembly--denominated
by the seceders "Ecclesiastical Judicatory, by Law Established." The
signing of the document occupied four hours, and the act of separation
was then transmitted to the General Assembly. The number of ministers
who signed it, or were enrolled in the list of the secession during its
first assembly, was three hundred and ninety-five; but the ranks of the
separatists were subsequently swelled by the addition of a considerable
number of ministers and others, who from time to time gave in their
adhesion to the "free church." This secession is one of the most
remarkable ecclesiastical revolutions on record; and its effects were
extensively felt throughout Scotland. The secession even gave rise to
outrages on the part of the people. In the course of the autumn several
serious disturbances took place throughout the country in connection
with the free church movement; but it is just to remark that those who
took part in these disgraceful proceedings formed only a minority cf the
people: the general demeanour of the population during this change in
their domestic affairs, was that of peace and good order.

In South Wales there was a commotion of a very different nature. The
disturbances which took place there, and which were denominated the
"Rebecca riots," were equally singular and unexpected. The grievance
which gave rise to them was the heavy and vexatious tolls to which
the peasantry were subjected by the mismanagement and abuses of the
turnpike-system. Galled by this burden, they resolved to take the law
into their own hands, and to break down the gates in every part. There
was, in fact, a crusade against toll-gates commenced during this year,
in almost every part of South Wales. The supposed head or chief of the
gate-breakers was called "Rebecca," a name derived from this passage in
the book of Genesis: "And they blessed Rebekah, and said unto her, Let
thy seed possess the gates of those which hate them." (Gen. xxiv. ver.
60.) "Rebecca," who was in the guise of a woman, always made her marches
by night; and her conduct of the campaign exhibited much dexterity
and address. Herself and band were mounted on horseback; and a sudden
blowing of horns, and firing of guns, announced the arrival of the
assailants at the turnpike selected for attack. The work of demolition
was soon effected: gate, posts, and tollhouse were razed to the ground;
and the work was no sooner done than the mysterious assailants galloped
off, firing their guns and blowing their horns; and no trace was to be
found of the quarter whence they had come, or to what place they had
retreated. At first the trustees re-erected some of the gates; but
"Rebecca," and her associates speedily demolished them; so that the
trustees were finally compelled to desist, and to leave the roads free
from toll. All the efforts of the magistrates were unavailing; and they
were obliged to appeal to government for protection and support. In
the meantime the unchecked success of the insurgents began to work its
natural effect in beguiling them into further violations of the laws.
Other grievances, as the poor-law amendment act, the working of the new
tithe-law, the fees paid to magistrates' clerks in the administration of
justice, and the alleged extortionate rents taken by the landowners for
their farms, were all considered burdens too heavy to be borne, and fit
objects for removal. Meetings were held in secluded spots, where plans
for carrying on the warfare against the ills to be redressed were
concocted; and these deliberations soon broke out into action. On the
10th of June "Rebecca" and her followers visited Caermarthen, and in
open day proceeded to attack the workhouse. In the midst of their work
of demolition, however, the military arrived, and the whole force was
compelled to decamp, leaving behind them about one hundred, who
were taken prisoners. The insurrection, notwithstanding this, still
continued, and even assumed a more malignant aspect. Houses in which
persons lived who were obnoxious to the rioters were attacked; and
a growing feeling of alarm and insecurity pervaded the peaceable and
well-disposed portion of the community. One poor woman, who kept
the Hendy turnpike-gate, on the confines of Glamorganshire and
Caermarthenshire, was barbarously murdered by the rioters; and such
was the influence of fear exercised over the minds of the jurymen who
investigated the case, that they brought in a verdict to the effect,
"That the deceased died from suffusion of blood, which produced
suffocation, but from what cause is to the jurors unknown." By the
continuance of these outrages, government at length sent down to Wales
a large body of troops, under a general officer, who was to take the
command of the disturbed districts. At the same time a strong body of
the London police was sent to exercise their skill in ferreting out the
rioters, who had long escaped detection. These measures did not wholly
prevent violence under cover of night; but, in a short time, some of
the more active leaders of the riots were captured in an affray with the
county police, on the borders of Glamorganshire; and from this event,
and various other causes, the spirit of disturbance, towards the close
of the year, began to decline. Perhaps the most effectual cause of
this decline was a prospect of the redress of those hardships which had
formed the theme of so much complaint. In October government sent down
a commission, which was to examine into the operation of the
turnpike-laws, and other alleged grievances of the country. From the
report of this commission, poverty and the hardness of the times had
more to do with the outbreak than any other specific cause; but, at the
same time, the inquiries instituted, and the report itself, showed
that the turnpike-laws as administered in Wales did afford a real and
substantial ground of complaint.


DISPUTES WITH AMERICA.

During last year the boundary question, which had formed a subject of
dispute between England and America, had been happily adjusted by Lord
Ashburton, who had been sent to the United States for that purpose.
There still, however, remained serious questions of dispute between the
two countries; namely, the Oregon territory, the right of search, and
the non-payment of state debts. In the year 1818, a treaty between Great
Britain and America had been ratified by the prince-regent; and in the
month of January, 1819, by the President of the United States, the third
article of which stipulated that "whatever territory may be claimed
by one or other of the contracting parties on the north-west coast of
America, to the west of the Rocky Mountains, as also all bays, creeks,
or rivers thereon, shall be free and open to the ships, citizens, and
subjects of both powers for ten years from the date of the signature
of the present convention." In accordance with this stipulation of the
treaty, the Oregon territory had been conjointly occupied up to the
present time--the period of ten years being afterwards indefinitely
extended by consent of both governments. In the early part of this
session of congress, the president announced that he was about to
negotiate with the British government for finally settling the claims
of the two countries to this territory. Whilst these negotiations were
pending, a bill for the occupation and military organization of the
Oregon territory was brought into congress by Mr. Linn. This bill, which
stated that "the title of the United States to the territory of Oregon
is certain, and will not be abandoned," was carried by a majority of
twenty-three against twenty-two. On being sent down, however, to the
house of representatives, the committee on foreign affairs reported
against it, and it was abandoned for this session. Another object which
gave rise to dissension between the government of Great Britain and the
United States, was the repudiation of public debts by several states of
the union. A third subject of dispute between the governments of Great
Britain and America was the right of search. Conflicting interpretations
existed between them of the treaty of Washington, which gave rise to a
tedious and disputatious correspondence. The year closed, also, before
the question was settled; but at the same time, though there were
signs of an open rupture between the two governments, yet there were
circumstances which gave rise to a well-founded hope, and it has happily
proved to be correct, that the swords of England and America would
not again be drawn against each other. There was especially a desire
existing in America of entering into a commercial treaty on the basis
of mutual reductions of import duties; so that it was clear that
the Americans saw, equally with the English, that it was their best
interests to avoid that dread ultimatum--war.


THE STATE OF INDIA.

The events of the present year in India, although not so exciting as
those which occurred in the last, possess deep interest. In Affghanistan
nothing of importance occurred after its evacuation by the British,
except that Dost Mahomed, who had been permitted to leave our
territories when we left Affghanistan, concentrated the chief power of
that country in his own hands, and became in effect its ruler. A more
important event occurred in the annexation of Scinde to our dominions
in the East. Scinde lies between the 23° and 29° of N. latitude, and the
67° and 70° of E. longitude. It is bounded on the south and south-east
by the Indian Ocean and Cutch; on the west by Beloo-chistan; on the
north by the southern portion of Affghanistan and the Punjaub; and on
the east by a sandy desert, separating it from the districts of Ajmeer.
The river Indus flows nearly in the centre of the country, through its
whole extent, from north to south; and a little below the city of Tatta
is divided into two great branches, between which lies a delta, through
which smaller channels force their way. Scinde had recently been
governed by four chiefs of the Beloochee tribe called Talpoor. The name
of the eldest of these chiefs was Futteh Ali Khan, who had the principal
direction of affairs, inasmuch as he had been the chief instrument in
overthrowing the dynasty of the Caleras, on the ruins of whose throne
the Talpoor chiefs sat. The brothers of Futteh Ali Khan were Gholam
Ali, Kunn Ali, and Moorad Ali; and the four brothers enjoyed a joint
sovereignty over Scinde, under the name of the _Char Yar_, or the "Four
Friends." All these rulers died by the year 1833, the whole leaving male
issue except Kunn Ali. Their deaths were followed by a civil war between
the sons of the deceased chiefs, which resulted in a distribution of
territory amongst them. They were distinguished respectively as Ameers
of Hyderabad, Khyrpore, and Meerpore. At the beginning of the present
year, the Ameers of Scinde consisted of the following persons:--at
Hyderabad, Nusseer Khan, Shabad Khan, Hussein Ali Khan, Mahomed Khan,
and Sobhdar Khan; at Khyrpore, Rustum Khan, Nusseer Khan, Ali Moorad
Khan, and Chakur Khan; at Meerpore, Shere Mahomed Khan. All of these
were Talpoor chiefs, and several of them had sons who were associated
with them in the government. They ruled over Scinde with a rod of iron,
living entirely for themselves, and wallowing in wealth, while their
people were living in the most wretched condition. In 1832, a treaty,
bearing date the 20th of April, was executed between the British
government in India and Meermoorad Ali, who at that time was the
principal Ameer of Scinde, in which a bond of friendship was entered
into, and mutual commerce was agreed upon. Another treaty was concluded
in 1834, by which the British obtained a reduction of tolls upon vessels
navigating the Indus; and it was agreed that a native British agent
should be allowed to reside at the mouth of the river. In 1838, in
consequence of the incursions of Runjeet Sing, the ruler of the Punjaub,
in the Scinde territory, which were checked by British mediation, it was
further conceded that an accredited British minister should reside at
Hyderabad, attended by such an escort as might be deemed suitable by his
government. Captain Pottinger was appointed to this service. It was soon
found, however, that the Ameers of Scinde were not in heart friends of
the British. When, in the autumn of 1838, the great military expedition
into Affghanistan was undertaken, a large body of Bengal troops marched
through a portion of Upper Scinde towards the Bolan Pass. The Bombay
troops, also, under the command of Sir John Keane, took their route into
Cabul by the way of the Indus; in doing which they encountered great
difficulty in prosecuting their onward progress, from the jealousy and
disaffection of the Ameers. Their conduct, in fact, became so hostile,
that a force was sent from Bombay to be stationed as a reserve in
Scinde, to keep the Ameers in check. This force was established at
Kurrachee; and before the army of the Indus left Hyderabad in February,
1839, another treaty was concluded with the Ameers, by which it was
stipulated that a British force should be stationed to the westward of
the Indus: that three of the Ameers--Noor Mahomed, Nusseer Khan, and
Meer Mahomed--should pay one lac of rupees (£10,000) each annually,
to defray part of the expenses of this force; that all tolls on boats
navigating the Indus within the Scinde territories should be abolished;
and that the Ameers should rule absolutely in their respective
territories; and in case of difference, the British representatives in
Scinde should mediate between them. A similar treaty was also concluded
with the Khyrpore Ameers; and shortly afterwards Shere Mahomed, Ameer of
Meerpore, on his own application was allowed, on the payment of half a
lac of rupees yearly, to participate in the treaty granted to the
Ameers of Hyderabad. From this time up to the end of 1840, when serious
disturbances occurred at Khelat, the state of Scinde was comparatively
tranquil. There were, however, strong reasons to suspect that the Ameers
were holding communications with the refractory Brahoe tribes, with a
view of attacking the British on a favourable opportunity. At this time
Major Outram was British resident at Hyderabad; and he had on several
occasions to mediate in family discords between the courts of Hyderabad
and Khyrpore. In the year 1840 Noor Mahomed died, and was succeeded by
his two sons, Meer Sliahdad and Meer Hossein Ali. Their uncle, Nusseer
Khan, wished, on the death of his brother to be acknowledged by the
British government as the rais or head of the Hyderabad branch of the
Tulpoor family, which distinction was not conceded. From that time he
seems to have meditated plans of active hostility against the British.
The indications of his enmity were so apparent, that he was threatened
by Lord Ellenborough with the loss of his dominions if he proved
faithless. But he was not the only Ameer hostile to the British
government. They were all in arrears with reference to the contribution
they were bound by treaty to supply towards the support of the British
force at Tatta; and when pressed for payment they evaded compliance, and
concerted measures of hostility against us, which rendered it possible
they would attack our forces on the first favourable opportunity. Under
these circumstances Sir Charles Napier was invested with the chief
command of all the forces in Scinde, and also with the authority of
a political functionary. He was invested with authority by the
governor-general of India, to propose a new treaty to the Àmeers of
Hyderabad and Khyrpore, which was to contain these stipulations:--That
the Ameers should be relieved from the payment of any subsidy for the
support of British troops; that the British government should have the
right to fell wood within one hundred yards of either bank of the Indus
for the use of steamers; and that Karrachu, Tatta, and three other
towns, with a strip of land on each side, should be ceded in perpetuity
to the British government. Sir Charles Napier appointed Major Outrarn
to conduct these negociations; and as it was necessary to maintain a
resolute front in the management of this treaty, Sir Charles himself
marched in February with his troops towards Khyrpore. Meer Rustum Khan
fled from his capital to a fort in the desert called Emaumghur, whither
he was followed by Sir Charles Napier, who, on arriving at this fort,
and finding it deserted, destroyed it with gunpowder, that it might not
form a place of refuge. The Ameers were at first adverse to the terms of
the treaty; but ultimately they agreed to the stipulations, which were
signed on both sides. There was, however, treachery among the Beloochee
chieftains. On the 15th of February the British residences at Hyderabad
were attacked by a body of 8000 troops, with six guns, who were
commanded by Meer Shahdad Khan. Major Outrarn, and the small garrison,
of about one hundred men, were compelled to take refuge in flight: they
fled to the Indus, where they were received on board one of the British
steamers, which conveyed them to Sir C. Napier at Hala. This event was
the signal of war; and bitterly did the Ameers pay for their treachery.
A great battle was fought at Meeanee, in which the Beloochee rulers
suffered a signal defeat: about 5000 of their followers were slain, and
the whole of the enemy's artillery, ammunition, standards, and camp,
with considerable stores, were captured by the British. Meer Rustum
Khan, and Meer Nusseer Khan; Meer Wullee Mahomed, of Khyrpore; Meer
Nusseer Khan, Meer Shadad Khan, and Meer Hossein Khan, all came into Sir
Charles Napier's camp, and surrendered their swords as prisoners of war.
Hyderabad, also, was given up to the British commander; and on the
20th of February the British flag waved over that city. The contest
in Scinde, however, was not yet over. There was still a large body of
troops on the banks of the Fullahi, one of the branches of the Indus,
under the command of Shere Mahomed. This body of troops, indeed,
consisted of 20,000 men, and they were strongly posted behind one of the
large nullahs by which that country is intersected in all directions;
but after a combat of three hours they were wholly defeated, and all
their standards and cannon were captured. After this latter victory Sir
Charles Napier took possession of Meerpore, and on the 4th of April the
fortress of Oomercote, an important stronghold in the desert, opened its
gates to the victorious British. By these events Scinde was subdued,
and the "Scindian population," says the conqueror, "everywhere expressed
their satisfaction at the change of masters." At a subsequent period
of the year Shere Mahomed and Shah Mahomed gathered each an army around
them, in order to recover their lost power; but the former was
defeated by a detachment under Captain Jacob, and the latter by another
detachment under Colonel Roberts. No further disturbance took place this
year in Scinde, and the governor-general was able to announce that
that country had become a part of our eastern dominions. The six fallen
Ameers were conveyed to Bombay; and although they were treated kindly,
they arrived there "the very pictures of unmingled grief and hopeless
despondency." It should be mentioned that Ali Moorad, the Ameer of
Khyrpore, remained faithful; and a portion of the territories of the
Koostum Khan and Nusseer Khan was transferred to him; but he seems to
have imagined that he ought to have had all that the British had taken
from the defeated Ameers. Shortly after the country was conquered Sir
Charles Napier was appointed governor of Scinde, and empowered to
take such measures as might appear best calculated to suppress the
slave-trade in every part of the country, and to abolish all duties of
transit in every part occupied by the British army. The gallant conduct
of Sir Charles Napier obtained the warmest praise of the people of
England.

During this year, also, the British troops gained two brilliant
victories over the Mahratta forces. The events which led to these
contests are briefly these. On the decease of the Maharaja, Jhunkojee
Rao Scindia, the British government acknowledged as his successor the
Maharaja Jyajee Rao Scindia, who was the nearest in blood to the late
Maharaja. During the minority of the new ruler of Mahratta the dignity
and power of regent were conferred upon the Mama Sahib. The widow of the
late Maharaja and the chiefs concurred in this adoption of a regent,
and the British government confirmed their choice. After a short time,
however, notwithstanding the remonstrance of the British resident,
Mama Sahib was violently compelled to quit the Gwalior state. On this
occurrence becoming-known, the British resident was instructed to
withdraw from Gwalior; and a British army was sent into Scindia, "not
as an enemy, but as a friend to the Maharaja, bound by treaty to respect
his highness's person, and to maintain his sovereign authority against
all who were disobedient and disturbers of the public peace." Having
established a strong government at Gwalior, capable of maintaining the
authority of the Maharaja, the British armies were subsequently ordered
to withdraw to their own territory. They were not, however, destined to
return without a severe conflict with the Mahratta forces. They had left
Agra in the early part of December; and on the 23rd they crossed the
Chumbul river, and halted at Hingona, about twenty miles distance from
Gwalior. The governor-general was with the British troops; and during
the interval of five days' halt at Hingona, the Mahratta Vakeels, or
agents for the Gwalior Durbar, had an interview with him. He supposed
that they were desirous of peace, but war was in their hearts. They were
evidently desirous only of gaining time by negociation to assemble
and concentrate their forces. This at last became so evident that the
governor-general determined on active measures of hostility. While the
main body of our army moved on under the command of Sir Hugh Gough from
Agra, another division, under Major-general Grey, advanced on Gwalior
from Bundle Khand. The main division crossed the Khoraee river early in
the evening of the 29th of December; and they found the Mahratta forces
drawn up in front of the village of Mahrajpoor, in a strong position.
The British troops were about 14,000 strong, with forty pieces of
artillery; and the Mahrattas numbered 18,000 men, including 3000
cavalry, and one hundred guns. An obstinate battle was fought, in which
the British lost about one hundred killed, and had about seven hundred
wounded; while the Mahrattas are said to have lost more than three
thousand men. The British were victorious, not only defeating the enemy,
but capturing many of their standards, and most of their guns. On the
same day, Major-general Grey, with a force of only 2000 men gained
another victory at Punniar over a Mahratta force, estimated at 12,000
in number. The consequence of these victories was the submission of the
Mahratta Durbar to the demands of the Indian government; Colonel Stubbs
was appointed by the Maha Ranee governor of the fort of Gwalior, which
commands the city; the Mahratta troops were disbanded: and a British
contingent, consisting of seven regiments of infantry and two of
cavalry, was to be maintained in the country at the cost of the Gwalior
government, which government was also to pay forthwith the expenses of
the campaign.

During this year Sir Henry Pottinger issued a proclamation, in which
he announced that the ratification of the treaty, mentioned in the last
chapter, between Great Britain and China had been exchanged, and that he
had concluded with the Chinese high commissioner, Keying, a commercial
treaty and tariff. The ports to which the British were admitted by this
treaty were those of Canton, Amoy, Foo-chow-foo, Ningpo, and Shanghae;
and an order in council was issued, in which her majesty prohibited her
subjects from resorting, for the purposes of trade and commerce, to any
other ports than these in the dominions of the Emperor of China, under
a penalty not exceeding £100 for every such offence, or a term of
imprisonment not exceeding three months, at the discretion of the court
before which the conviction should take place. Mr. T. Lay was appointed
consul at Canton, and Sir Henry Pottinger formally assumed the
government of the island of Hong-Kong. The town destined for the seat
of government, and the residence of merchants and others, was founded
on the northern side of the island, and named Victoria. It was not long
before the cupidity of trade displayed itself. Sir Henry Pottinger had
refused to allow opium to be stored in warehouses in Hong-Kong; and
six of the merchants at Victoria withdrew to Macao on account of this
decision. In consequence of this manifestation of dissatisfaction, a
proclamation was published in order to point out the risk which those
subjected themselves to who were resolved at all hazards to import
opium.


CONTINENTAL AFFAIRS.

An interesting event took place in September of this j'ear, when
her majesty Queen Victoria, accompanied by Prince Albert, paid Louis
Philippe a visit in his own dominions. They arrived in their steam-yacht
at Tréport, close to Eu, where the royal family of France were
sojourning; and after receiving a most cordial reception from their
illustrious host and the French people, they proceeded on their voyage
to Ostend. About the same time one of the French monarch's sons, the
Prince de Joinville, was married to Princess Francisca, the sister of
the Emperor of Brazils, and the Queen of Portugal. But while in France
all were merry as a "marriage bell," the unhappy country of Spain was
disturbed from one end to the other by insurrections. Madrid was even
captured by Generals Narvaez and Aspirez, who headed the insurgent
forces; and Espartero was compelled to take refuge on board an English
ship of war at Cadiz, after having in vain bombarded Seville. Espartero
proceeded to Lisbon, whence he issued a manifesto to the Spanish nation,
after which he sailed to England. At the close of this year, indeed,
Spain was torn in pieces by factions, though the queen was still enabled
to keep her seat on the throne.


CHAPTER LV.

{VICTORIA. 1844-1845}

     Meeting of Parliament..... Motion of the Stoppage of
     Supplies..... Affairs of India..... Irish Affairs: Irish
     Municipal   Franchise, The   Irish Church Question, Irish
     Charitable Trusts  Bill,  Roman Catholic Penal Acts Repeal
     Bill..... Restrictions on Labour in Factories, &c..... The
     Corn Laws and Free Trade Question..... Financial
     Statements..... Sugar Duties Bill,   &c...... Bank Charter
     and   Banking   Regulations..... Dissenters' Chapels
     Bill..... Sees of Bangor and St. Asapli..... Miscellaneous
     Measures of the Session..... Prorogation of Parliament.....
     The State of India..... Proceedings against Mr.
     O'Connell..... Continental Affairs.


MEETING OF PARLIAMENT.

{A.D. 1844}

Parliament was opened by the queen in person on the 1st of February. Her
majesty's speech first alluded to her friendly relations with foreign
powers; to the treaty concluded with China; to the annexation of Scinde
to the British empire in India; to the estimates; and to the improved
condition of several important branches of the trade and manufactures
of the country. The speech then recommended attention to the revision of
the charter of the Bank of England; to the state of the law and practice
with regard to the occupation of land in Ireland; and to the law of
registration in that country.

The debates on the address in both houses were not in any way
remarkable, except for a bold speech by Mr. Sharman Crawford, demanding
redress of the grievances of which the people of both England and
Ireland complained. A contest also occurred between Lord John Russell
and Sir Robert Peel in reference to the duties on the importation of
foreign corn, the opposition leader maintaining that a fixed duty was
desirable, and the ministerial leader advocating the system of variable
duties, called a sliding-scale.


MOTION FOR THE STOPPAGE OF SUPPLIES.

In his speech during the discussion on the address, Mr. Sharman Crawford
had threatened to move the stoppage of supplies. In accordance with this
threat, on the 6th of February, after enumerating the grievances which
the house had refused to inquire into, such as class legislations
consisting of various commercial monopolies, he moved his resolution.
After a few words in favour of the motion by Mr. Hume, and against it by
Colonel Sibthorp and Mr. Trelawny, it was negatived by a majority of one
hundred and thirty against twenty-two.


AFFAIRS OF INDIA.

During this session the policy of government in relation to the affairs
of India became the subject of discussion on several occasions. On the
12th of February motions were brought forward in both houses for the
thanks of parliament to Sir Charles Napier and the army employed in the
operations of Scinde, which motions were agreed to unanimously. Soon
after this an event occurred which produced a startling effect. On the
21st of April Sir Robert Peel, in answer to a question put to him by
Mr. T. B. Macaulay, said, "I beg to state that, on Wednesday last,
her Majesty's government received a communication from the court of
directors, that they had exercised the power which the law gives them,
to recall at their will and pleasure the governor-general of India."
This announcement soon spread abroad; and in the house of lords, on the
29th of April, Lord Colchester addressed to the Duke of Wellington these
questions:--"Whether the communication from the court of directors to
government alleged any reason for the recall of the governor-general?
If so, whether there was any objection to state such reason? and whether
the reasons were considered satisfactory by government?" In reply, the
noble duke stated that reasons had been given for the recall of the
governor-general, but that those reasons had not been concurred in
by her majesty's government; nay, more, they remonstrated against
the measure. The noble duke, in fact, roundly condemned the court
of directors for taking such a step, pronouncing it to be the most
indiscreet exercise of power he had ever known. Several discussions
subsequently took place in both houses of parliament on the recall
of Lord Ellenborough; and motions were moved for copies of the
correspondence between the court of directors and her majesty's
government relative to this subject; but these motions were negatived,
and the discussions led to no practical result. They were, in truth,
only made the medium of giving utterance to party sentiments and
opinions.


IRISH AFFAIRS.

The subject which gave rise to the most animated discussions in
parliament this session was the ministerial policy towards Ireland;
especially their conduct in reference to the trial of Mr. O'Connell and
his associates. On the 13th of February, the Marquis of Normanby moved
in the house of lords, a resolution condemnatory of the government
administration of Irish affairs. After a very long and angry discussion,
the debate was adjourned, and on the next evening was continued by Earl
Fitzwilliam and Lord Monteagle on one side, and the Earls of Haddington
and Ripon on the other. On a division, the motion was negatived by a
majority of one hundred and seventy-five against seventy-eight.

In the house of commons, on the 13th, Lord John Russell, in a speech of
three hours' continuance, opened a discussion on the subject of Irish
policy, which was protracted for nine evenings. The motion which he made
on this occasion nominally aimed at the appointment of a committee
of the whole house to consider the state of Ireland. The debate which
ensued presented much sameness and repetition. On a division, Lord
John Russell's motion was negatived by a majority of three hundred and
thirty-four against two hundred and twenty-five.

It had been announced in the speech from the throne that government
would, in the present session, take up the question of the registration
of voters in Ireland. In fulfilment of this announcement, Lord Eliot,
early in April, introduced a bill into the house of commons for that
purpose; leave was given to bring in the bill; but it was evidently so
distasteful to the Irish members and their supporters, that, on the 1st
of July, Sir Robert Peel announced that it was abandoned by government.

On the 9th of May Mr. Hume moved:--"That an humble address be presented
to her majesty, praying that she will be graciously pleased to consider
whether it would not be for the advantage of Ireland, and for the
interest of the United Kingdom, to abolish the office of lord-lieutenant
of Ireland." Mr. Hume contended that this office was one of the
principal causes of repeal agitation, and that by abolishing it peace
would be restored to the country. His motion was seconded by Captain
Bernai, and opposed by Lords John Russell and Eliot, Sir Robert Peel,
and Captain Layard. Ultimately, Mr. Hume withdrew his motion. On the
11th of July Mr. Ward brought on his annual motion about the Irish
church. On a division it was rejected by a majority of two hundred and
seventy-four against one hundred and seventy-nine.

A measure of great importance to the Roman Catholic community in Ireland
was introduced by government, and passed during this session; namely, a
bill which had for its object the making of a provision for the better
security and regulation of moneys settled upon charitable and religious
trusts. This bill was first introduced in the house of lords, where it
passed with very little opposition. Sir James Graham moved its second
reading in the commons on the 29th of July. In making this motion,
he explained the law as it then stood relative to the management
and supervision of charitable bequests and donations in Ireland. The
existing system was regulated by a statute passed at the beginning of
the present century, by which a board was constituted for the government
and administration of charitable trusts. This board consisted almost
exclusively of Protestants; whereas nearly three-fourths of the bequests
placed under its jurisdiction were Roman Catholic endowments. By the
bill now proposed, it would be enacted that the master of the rolls, the
chief baron of the exchequer, and the judges of the Prerogative Court,
should be _ex officio_ members of the board; and that in the presence of
them, or any of them, one or the other should preside, according to his
rank--first, the master of the rolls; in his absence, the chief baron
of the exchequer; or, in the absence of the other two, the judge of the
prerogative court. The bill next provided that the crown should appoint
ten commissioners, five of whom should be Protestants, and five Roman
Catholics. By the sixth section it was further provided, with respect
to matters concerning the doctrine, discipline, or constitution of the
church of Rome--that if a question arose as to the _status_ or condition
of any person who had a right, or claimed to have a right, under any
of the deeds of bequest brought under the consideration of the
commissioners, such question should be referred, if the claimant were
a Roman Catholic, to the Roman Catholic commissioners only; and it was
provided that they should grant a certificate of their decision,
which certificate should be received as evidence. One of the principal
objections to the existing law was removed by the tenth clause, which
limited the power of the commissioners to apply donations and bequests
according to the intention of the donor or donors. The thirteenth clause
also obviated the existing difficulty under the statute of mortmain,
which made bequests chargeable upon land for a given class of persons,
or their successors. This clause would enable real or personal property,
without limitation as to its amount, to be held in perpetuity,
for building and maintaining chapels, for building and maintaining
residences for the Roman Catholic clergy, or for the use of the priests
for the time being, for the purpose of any particular charge. In
conclusion, Sir James Graham said that he could only anticipate one
objection to the bill on tire part of the Roman Catholics, and that
arose from the peculiarity of their ecclesiastical jurisdiction. He
believed they would object to the decision of any ecclesiastical matters
relating to their church by persons who were not in holy orders of the
church of Rome; but he would remind them that under the existing law,
such matters might be brought before the supreme judicial tribunal
of the country--the judge of that court, the lord-chancellor, being a
Protestant. According to the present bill, however, such matters
would be left to the decision of a board, composed of Protestants and
Catholics equal in number. The bill was loudly condemned by Messrs.
More, O'Ferral, Bellew, and Shiel; while, on the other hand, Lord
Arundel thanked government for the conciliatory spirit it displayed. Mr.
Hume said that the bill seemed to him to be framed in a spirit of peace,
and he wished all the Irish grievances were met in the same feeling. The
proposed tribunal was a fair and proper one, and he should be glad to
see as good a one for the administration of English charities: there
ought to be "justice to England." The second reading was carried by a
majority of seventy-one against five; and on the motion that the bill
should be committed, Mr. M. J. O'Connell gave notice that he should in
committee move amendments. The bill having been subsequently reported,
and being moved for a third reading, Mr. Dominick Browne expressed a
wish for its postponement. The Roman Catholic hierarchy, he said, was
entirely opposed to it; although he admitted that he believed it to be
proposed in a spirit of conciliation. He moved that the bill be read
that day three months; but the amendment found no one to second it; and
after a few observations from Mr. M. J. O'Connell, who now expressed
himself in favour of it, the bill passed.

During this session Lord Beaumont, a Roman Catholic peer, brought in
a bill for the abolition of a number of penal acts, for the most
part obsolete, though still retained in the Irish statute-book. The
lord-chancellor urged Lord Beaumont to abstain from pressing his bill,
as government were about to revise the whole of the penal laws; but
finding his lordship resolved to press the matter, he took the bill into
his own hands. The measure having been amended by the lord-chancellor,
was brought before the house of lords on the 30th of July. In explaining
the various enactments which it was intended to repeal, Lord Lynd-hurst
said that the first was a statute of Elizabeth's reign, directing a
particular form of prayer to be used, under a penalty of three months'
imprisonment for a first offence, six months for a second, and for life
for a third. The second act intended to be repealed punished the denial
of the sovereign's supremacy in ecclesiastical and religious matters:
first, with forfeiture of goods and chattels; second, with the
penalties of a premunire; and for a third offence, with the penalties
of high-treason. Another act made reconcilement to the see of Rome
high-treason; and imposed a fine of two hundred marks on every priest
performing, and one hundred marks on every person hearing the ceremony.
By another, a Jesuit remaining in England a certain number of days was
made liable to be prosecuted for high-treason; and persons residing
abroad for the purpose of being educated, who should not return within
six months after proclamation to that effect, were also rendered liable
to the penalties of high-treason. Other statutes imposed penalties on
any Roman Catholic who should be found more than three miles distant
from his abode; on parents who sent their children abroad to be
educated; and for not going to church. Another act declared any one
newly converted to the Roman Catholic faith, and his children, if
educated in that faith, incapable of holding any place of trust or
profit. A statute of William and Mary enacted that no Roman Catholic
should come within ten miles of the metropolis, and forbade them to have
any weapons of defence in their houses. By the same bill it was also
provided that if they possessed a horse worth more than five pounds, it
was liable to be forfeited and seized. The bill would also repeal the
act of the 31st George III., which act was an extraordinary jumble of
legislation: they had an act of Elizabeth which required a party to take
a certain oath, and if he refused he was guilty of high-treason; but
by the subsequent act they provided that if he took another oath, and a
much milder one, he was free: yet if a man professing the Roman Catholic
religion did not take either of the oaths, he would be guilty of
high-treason, and liable to all the penalties which attached to that
crime. The only "non-content" to this measure in the house of lords
was the Bishop of London: and he only opposed it because government had
taken it up at the eleventh hour, and without consulting the hierarchy.
The second reading was moved in the house of commons on the 5th of
August by Sir Robert Peel, who took occasion to explain that it did
not do away with any security which had been taken for the established
church by the act passed in 1829 for the relief of Roman Catholics; the
acts to be repealed were mere dead letters, encumbering and discrediting
the statute-book. Mr. Hawes requested to know whether, if obsolete
statutes of a similar nature were to be found on the statute-book,
applicable to the same or other denominations of Christians, government
would be prepared to frame a measure for repealing them. Sir Robert Peel
replied that he would not make any pledge upon the subject; but if there
were any statutes which compelled a conscientious dissenter from the
church of England, upon a heavy penalty, to attend divine service in
that church, he could see no objection to its being erased from the
statute-book. The bill then passed, and received the royal assent.


RESTRICTIONS ON LABOUR IN FACTORIES, ETC.

On the 5th of February Sir James Graham introduced a bill for
the regulation of labour in factories. In explaining the proposed
enactments, he said, that with respect to age, it was resolved that
the term "child" should be defined to mean children between nine and
thirteen, instead of eight and thirteen. Such children were not to be
employed for more than six hours and a half each day, and were not to
be employed in the forenoon and afternoon of the same day. In the
existing law, "young persons" were defined to be persons between the
ages of thirteen and eighteen: he did not wish any alteration in this
respect; but he should propose that such young persons should not be
employed in any silk, cotton, wool, or flax manufactory, for any portion
of the twenty-four hours, longer than from half-past five o'clock to
seven in the summer, and from half-past six o'clock to eight in the
winter:--thus making thirteen hours and a half each day, of which one
hour and a half, should be allowed for meals and rest. In respect to
females, they were not, under any circumstances, to work more than
twelve hours. By this bill, moreover, the recovery of lost time, from
the use of steam and water, would not be allowed, except where the power
used was water-power only: no person so employed was to work more than
thirteen hours. Inspectors would be empowered to notify to mill-owners
whenever they observed that any portion of their machinery was
dangerous, and that in their opinion it required to be cased or covered
up: and if after such notification any accident should occur injurious
to any of the workmen employed, then the inspector would be empowered
to institute a suit for recovering compensation for such injury, and the
damages awarded should be given to the injured party. As to education,
all that the bill would do, would be to give the child from eight to
thirteen years old time for receiving instruction: he was not to be
employed more than six hours and half daily--the remaining portions of
the day _might_ be devoted to education. Leave was given to bring in the
bill, and the house went into committee upon it on the 15th of March.
On one of the clauses being proposed which fixed the limitations of the
hours of labour, Lord Ashley, after forcibly depicting the effects of
factory labour, the injury it inflicted on those employed in it as the
system now existed, both physically, mentally, and morally, moved that
the night, instead of being computed from eight o'clock in the evening,
should be computed from six o'clock. This amendment gave rise to an
animated and earnest debate, which lasted two nights; and on a division,
it was carried by a majority of one hundred and seventy-nine against
one hundred and seventy. The proposal of government having been thus
negatived, Sir James Graham said it would not be consistent with his
duty to drop the measure at the present stage. On the eighth clause,
Lord Ashley would have to move the substitution of "ten" for "twelve"
hours, and the question could then be considered in a more substantive
form. On the next day Lord Ashley said that it was his intention to
make this proposition; and if affirmed, he should then prepare a clause,
enacting that the present duration of labour, twelve hours, should
continue till the 1st of October, 1844; the period should then fall to
eleven hours, to continue so till the 1st of October, 1846, when the
period of ten hours should commence. In pursuance of this intention,
on the 22nd, when the eighth clause was taken into consideration, which
provided that no young person should be employed daily more than twelve
hours, Lord Ashley moved an amendment, substituting "ten" for "twelve."
A contest followed this motion; but the debate which ensued was
characterized by very little novelty, and on a division it was rejected
by a majority of one hundred and eighty-eight against one hundred and
eighty-one. At the same time the clause for twelve hours was rejected by
one hundred and eighty-six against one hundred and eighty-three. Sir
J. Graham then moved that the chairman report progress; stating that he
should take until the following Monday, the 25th, to consider the course
proper for him to adopt under these circumstances. On the 25th Sir James
Graham announced that government had resolved to abandon the bill in
order to bring in a new one. This was not effected without considerable
opposition; but ministers finally triumphed, and leave was given to
bring in a new bill on the 27th. The new bill stood for the second
reading on the 22nd of April; previous to which Lord Ashley announced
that he was determined to move, on the third reading of the bill,
the addition of certain clauses, for the purpose of carrying out the
amendments which he had proposed in the former bill. On the 22nd, the
second reading of the bill having been moved, with an understanding that
the main question was to be considered at a subsequent stage, Mr.
T. Duncombe said that in agreeing to such a course Lord Ashley had
surrendered the whole case. He now merely proposed to take a flying shot
at the bill when it was leaving the house after the third reading: if
that shot missed, the bill would be gone before he could fire a second
barrel. Under these circumstances, on the order of the day for going
into committee of the whole house, he would move that the bill should be
referred to a select committee above stairs. This motion was made,
but it was rejected, and the bill passed through committee without
alteration. The debate on the third reading commenced on the 10th of
May, and was continued for two nights by adjournment. The new bill
enacted that no young person should be employed more than "twelve" hours
daily, as in the abandoned measure: but Lord Ashley, according to his
notice, moved on this occasion a clause restricting the hours of labour
to eleven from October, 1844. On a division, however, this amendment
was negatived by a majority of two hundred and ninety-seven against one
hundred and fifty-nine, and the bill then passed the commons. In the
house of lords this controverted bill passed without much discussion.


THE CORN-LAWS AND FREE-TRADE QUESTION.

During this session, as Sir Robert Peel had proclaimed at its
commencement the intention of government to maintain the recent
settlement of the corn-laws, the exertions of the free-trade party
in parliament were confined to two or three desultory motions, rather
indicating their protest against the existing system than tending to
practical results. On the 12th of March Mr. Cobden brought the corn-law
question before the house of commons, in the shape of a motion for
a committee to inquire into the effects of protective duties on
agricultural labourers and tenants. This motion gave rise to a
considerable debate, but it was negatived by a majority of two hundred
and twenty-four against one hundred and thirty-three. About the same
time Mr. Ricardo moved, "That an humble address be presented to her
majesty, praying that her majesty will be graciously pleased to give
directions to her servants not to enter into any negociation with
foreign powers which would make any contemplated alterations of the
tariffs of other countries; and humbly expressing to her majesty the
opinion of this house that the great object of relieving the commercial
intercourse between this country and foreign nations from all injurious
restrictions will be best promoted by regulating our own customs'
duties, as may be most suitable to the financial and commercial
interests of this country, without reference to the amount of duties
which foreign powers may think it expedient for their own interests to
levy on British goods." In advocating this motion, Mr. Ricardo dwelt on
the inutility of all our recent commercial diplomacy; and contended that
our objects might be as effectually attained by judicious legislation
with respect to our imposts, as by intricate negociations with respect
to exports. The motion was seconded by Mr. Ewart, and supported by Sir
J. Hanmer and Mr. Hume; but there not being forty members present, the
house was counted out. Mr. Villiers brought forward his annual motion
against the corn-laws on the 25th of June. He moved:--"That it appears
by a recent census, that the people of this country are rapidly
increasing in number. That it is in evidence before this house that a
large proportion of her majesty's subjects are insufficiently provided
for with the first necessaries of life. That, nevertheless, a corn-law
is in force, which restricts the supply of food, and thereby lessens its
abundance. That any such restriction, having for its object to impede
the free purchase of an article upon which depends the subsistence of
the community is indefensible in principle, injurious in operation, and
ought to be abolished. That it is therefore expedient that the act 5 &
6 Vic. c. 14, shall be repealed forthwith." The debate on this motion
occupied two evenings. Mr. Villiers supported it on the same ground
which had been traversed by former argument on the same subject. By the
facts and arguments which he adduced, he contended that he established
these positions:--"That the supply of food had been deficient; that
great inconvenience had resulted; and that the protective system had
led to the cultivation of the land in a most slovenly manner." Mr.
Gladstone, on the part of government, announced his intention of calling
upon the house to give a direct negative to the original resolutions.
Lord John Russell said that the motion placed him in a difficult
position: he could not vote for the total and immediate repeal of
the protective duty, neither could he assent to maintain the existing
corn-law. Sir Robert Peel, who spoke towards the close of the debate,
said that the performance of the evening had been for the benefit of the
company which usually performed at Covent Garden Theatre. Mr. Villiers,
in closing the debate, said, that there was nothing for him to reply to,
since no one had controverted his arguments. The speech which Sir Robert
Peel had delivered would please the agriculturists; but he had made
the same sort of speech for them in 1839, and had thrown them overboard
afterwards, because the state of the season and the distress of the
people had made it indispensable to give some relief to the country.
He predicted that the same thing would happen again. The motion was
rejected by a majority of three hundred and twenty-eight against one
hundred and twenty-four.


FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.

At this time, in consequence of the great abundance of capital in tire
market, there was a general impression that the time had arrived when a
considerable saving might be effected to the country, by a reduction
in those stocks which bore the highest rate of interest. Early in the
present session, indeed, it was discovered that government contemplated
a plan for reducing the three and a half per cent, consols, which, at
the commencement of the year, had reached the price of 102 1/2. This
plan was developed by Mr. Goulburn, in a lucid and able speech, on the
8th of March. He was about to ask the house, he said, to deal with the
largest sum for which any government had been called on to propose
a regulation, being no less than £250,000,000 of money. Never, he
continued, was there a period when capital, seeking an investment, was
so plentiful, and the rate of interest so low as at present; and there
was nothing in the circumstances of the times which gave any reason to
suppose that this state of things would prove transient. The condition
of the public finances also was favourable to the proposed object; for,
thanks to the firmness of the house of commons, the revenue once more
exceeded the expenditure. In explaining this measure, he said that
he was not disposed to purchase an immediate relief by increasing the
burdens of succeeding times. He had, therefore, rejected the idea of
lowering the present interest by augmenting the capital of the debt. His
intention was to propose the conversion of the three and a half into
a three and a quarter per cent, stock, which should continue until
October, 1854, after which period the interest should be reduced to
three per cent., with a guarantee that for twenty years there should be
no further reduction. By this measure the public, from October, 1844, to
1854, would save £625,000 per annum, which saving, from and after 1854,
would become £1,250,000 per annum. Mr. Goulburn also proposed to make
such arrangement that, from next October, the payments of interests
would be nearly equalized in each quarter. His speech was received with
loud demonstrations of approbation from both sides of the house; and the
resolution being put, was carried unanimously. The bill brought in,
to give it effect, passed rapidly through its stages in the house of
commons; and it was carried through the upper house with equal unanimity
and facility, all being convinced that it was a sound and practical
measure, and honest withal to the public creditor.

The annual financial statement for this year was made on the 24th
of April, when Mr. Goulburn had the satisfaction of showing that the
receipts exceeded the expenditure. There had been an increase of amount
in all the estimates: in the customs, the excise, the stamps, the taxes,
the post-office, and the property-tax. The estimate of the total revenue
was £50,150,000; the sum received £52,835,134, showing an increase of
about £2,700,000. The expenditure also was less than the estimate
by £650,000; and the total result was that, instead of the estimated
surplus of £700,000, the gross surplus amounted to £4,165,000. From
this, however, there was the deficiency of last year to be taken,
namely, £2,749,000; and when this was discharged there was a net surplus
of £1,400,000 over the expenditure of the year ending April, 1844. The
total estimate of the revenue for the year following was £51,790,000,
and the expenditure £49,643,170, whereby an apparent surplus of
£3,146,000, or, making a deduction for a portion of the debt to be
discharged next year, £2,376,000. Mr. Goulburn proceeded to say that
this balance having been anticipated, he had been pressed from all
quarters to reduce various taxes. He would gladly have done so, but the
source of the surplus was not permanent: it was mainly the income-tax
which was to be considered next year, in order to determine whether
it should be prolonged, as had originally been proposed, for two years
beyond the first. If other taxes were now hastily reduced before
the operation of the tariff could be known, the house might have no
alternative next year but to continue this tax. It was under these
circumstances that he resisted large reductions; but he thought there
were some articles upon which remission might be afforded, with a fair
prospect of making up revenue by an increased consumption, and with a
probability of increasing the consumption of other articles. The items
which he proposed to select for such remission were glass, vinegar,
currants, coffee, marine insurance, and wool, upon the aggregate of
which the amount of duty to be remitted would be £387,000 per annum.
Later in the session he intended to take the sugar duties into
consideration; when he should recommend that England should admit, at a
differential duty of ten shillings per cwt., the sugar of those
states which do not cultivate that commodity by slave-labour. After
considerable discussion, in which several members recommended the
reduction or abolition of other taxes, the motion of Mr. Goulburn was
agreed to; and the customs duties bill, and other bills founded on his
proposition, subsequently passed through both houses with unanimity.


SUGAR-DUTIES BILL, ETC.

The great conflict of parties was reserved for the sugar duties. The
chancellor of the exchequer's views on this subject were propounded on
the 3rd of June, when, after delivering a lucid and able speech on
the sugar duties at present existing, and explaining his intended
alterations in those duties, he moved:--"That towards raising the supply
granted to her majesty, the several duties now payable on sugar be
further continued for a time to be limited, save and except that from
and after the 10th day of November next, there shall be charged on brown
Muscovado, or clayed sugar, certified to be the growth of China, Java,
or Manilla, or of any other foreign country, the sugar of which her
majesty in council shall have declared to be admissible as not being the
produce of slave-labour, £114s. the cwt., together with the additional
duty of £5 per cent, on the afore-mentioned rate. That from and after
the 10th day of November next her majesty be authorized by order in
council to give effect to the provisions of any treaty now in force,
which binds her majesty to admit sugar, the produce of a foreign
country, at the same duties as are imposed on sugar the produce of the
most favoured nation." Lord John Russell had announced that he would
propose an amendment for including slave-grown sugar in that foreign
produce which was to be admitted at diminished duties; but Mr. Goulburn
said he could not believe that the house would consent to throw away the
whole of that large amount which the country had recently paid for the
abolition of slavery, by creating, through a new rise of prices, an
additional stimulus to the importation of slaves into the foreign
colonics. Lord John Russell, however, combated the views of government
at great length; after which he moved, as an amendment, "That towards
raising the supply granted to her majesty, instead of the duties of
customs now payable on sugar, there shall be charged on brown, or
Muscovado sugar, the produce of any foreign country, the sum of £1 14s.
per cwt." In support of his motion the noble lord argued, that the time
was come when the sugar duties ought to undergo a full consideration.
It was proposed, he said, to admit the sugar of Java and Manilla as
free-grown, though the policy of these countries was questionable in
point of personal freedom; but the sugar of Porto Rico was excluded,
because our conscience was shocked at the notion that some part of
it might have been produced by slaves. But what was thus forbidden
directly, was allowed circuitously; we were willing to refine and
export this slave-grown sugar, and to take the hemp and tallow of
Russia in its stead, which seemed to be an easy way of letting down
our consciences. This savoured of hypocrisy. If the United States were
permitted to send us their sugars, which they would do to the extent of
50,000 tons per annum, they would take slave-grown sugar into their own
consumption to the same extent; and to that whole extent, therefore,
would give encouragement to slave-grown sugar. No implicit faith,
moreover, was to be placed in the certificates of the Americans. Messrs.
Gladstone and Baring defended the government measure; and Messrs.
Hume, Labouchere, and M. P. Stewart opposed it. On a division Lord
John Russell's amendment was negatived by one hundred and ninety-seven
against one hundred and twenty-eight. A few days afterwards, a bill
founded on the chancellor of the exchequer's resolutions was brought
in, and was read a second time without discussion. But the most critical
crisis for ministers had yet to be encountered. On the 14th of June, the
house having resolved itself into committee on the sugar-duties bill,
Mr. P. Miles objected to the change proposed by ministers in the old
amount of protection as a measure which was not expedient, and not final
in its settlement; wherefore he moved as an amendment, "That, from the
10th of November next, the duty on British colonial sugar should be.
20s.; on the sugars of China, Java, and Manilla, 30s.; with a duty
of 34s. upon the foreign sugars, when imported at a certain degree of
refinement, and with an addition, as usual, of five per cent, upon the
whole." This amendment was seconded by Mr. H. Baillie, who described the
measure of government as causing general dissatisfaction; and asserted
that, while it violated the principle of refusing encouragement to
the foreign slave-trade, it gave but partial advantages to the British
people. A long discussion took place, in which many members took part;
and on a division government was defeated by a majority of two hundred
and forty-one against two hundred and twenty-one. The committee then
adjourned to the 17th; on which day Sir Robert Peel rose to put the
house in possession of the course which government intended now to
pursue. After explaining the nature of the sugar duties, and their
views in the proposed alterations, and asserting that he believed a
concurrence between the friends and the opponents of ministers had been
concerted in the late division, he said the course which government
would now take, and on which all members would be free, who had not
engaged to vote for Mr. Miles's proposal of 20s., would be to propose,
as an amendment, that 24s. should be the duty. They wished it to
be known in the countries east of the Cape what the intentions of
government were. Sir Robert Peel went on to explain the reasons why he
did not content himself with merely proposing a renewal of the present
sugar duties; after which, he said, that he was not insensible to
the impediments which had been opposed to the progress of ministerial
legislation. In certain of their measures, government had failed to
obtain the approbation of some whose support they valued: but they were
not prepared to purchase that approbation at the price of refraining
from the policy which they deemed essential to the welfare of the
country. They had felt it their duty to make a relaxation of duties;
in that course they held it their duty to persevere: and he was anxious
that on so important an occasion there should be no deception and no
reserve. Lord John Russell considered that the proposal of Sir Robert
Peel was neither more nor less than that the house should retract its
former vote, and thus disgrace itself with the country. For his own part
he was not much moved by their threats of quitting office, as he had not
been one of the general supporters of the government. He justified
the degree of concert which had taken place between Mr. Miles and the
opposition; and asked if there had not also been a combination on his
side. In conclusion, he warned the house that if they gave Sir Robert
Peel the victory on this occasion, they would henceforth be wholly in
his power. Mr. P. Miles denied that the conspiracy existed of which the
right honourable baronet had spoken, and expressed his regret that he
intended to persevere with his bill: he should have thought he would
have been justified in paying due deference to the decision of a
majority of that house, and postponing his measure till another session.
Messrs. Cochrane and Labouchere opposed; and Sir Howard Douglas, and
Messrs. Kemble and Warburton expressed their intention to vote with
ministers. Mr. D'Israeli was not a little lost in wonder when he heard
the threatened resignation of ministers; and facetiously congratulated
the administration and the country, that instead of resigning, the right
honourable baronet had simply moved an amendment. Several other members
took part in the debate; and on a division Mr. Miles's motion was
negatived this time by a majority of two hundred and fifty-five against
two hundred and thirty-three; after which Sir Robert Peel's amendment,
that 24s. and 84s. should be inserted, was agreed to. In committee
further discussion occurred, and several amendments 'were moved; but
they were all negatived and the bill finally passed the commons.

The principal debate in the house of lords took place on the 2nd of
July, when Lord Dalhousie moved the third reading. In his speech, the
noble lord showed the prejudicial effects of the emancipation of the
slaves in the West Indies on the supply of labour, and the consequent
diminished production of sugar. This diminution had increased the price;
and it became requisite to provide a supply from other quarters to
answer the increase of demands. It was for this purpose that the present
measure was introduced. By the act, which it was intended to supersede,
all foreign sugar was subjected to a duty of 63s. per cwt. and five per
cent.; and British sugar to a duty of only 24s., and five per cent. This
bill proposed to leave the duty on sugar, the produce of the British
possessions, as it then stood, namely, 24s. and five per cent.; but
it proposed to effect an important alteration with respect to foreign
sugar, by allowing the sugar of China, Java, and Manilla to be admitted
at a duty of 34s. and five per cent., such sugar being the produce of
free labour; and it also proposed to give to her majesty in council
a power to admit, under peculiar circumstances, sugar, the produce
of other countries with which we had reciprocal treaties, such
being-certified to be _bona fide_ the sugar of those countries, and
the produce of free labour. The bill was opposed by the Marquis of
Lansdowne, Earl St. Vincent, and Lord Mont-eagle; and supported by the
Earl of Radnor, and Lords Ashburton and Brougham. After a few words from
Earl Dalhousie, in reply, it was read a third time, and passed without a
division.


BANK CHARTER AND BANKING REGULATIONS.

In the speech at the opening of parliament, her majesty had alluded to
measures about to be brought forward for the regulation of the Bank of
England, and the administration of banking concerns in general. On the
6 th of May, in accordance with this announcement, the house having
resolved itself into a committee upon the Bank charter, Sir Robert Peel
explained these measures. The act of 1833, he said, had empowered the
government to notify to the Bank, before August, 1844, that parliament
meant to deal anew with the subject; and government now proposed
that parliament should exercise that power of notification. The right
honourable baronet went on to consider the principle of value. What, he
asked, was a pound, and what the engagement to pay a pound? He contended
that the word meant more than an abstraction--that it meant a certain
weight of precious metal; and the engagement of a maker of a promissory
note was to pay on demand a definite amount of that metal and fineness.
A real measure of value in this just sense had existed till the year
1797, when bank paper became issuable without being convertible into
metal. For some years the subject attracted little attention, until
the bullion committee of 1810 propounded a sounder theory. This theory,
however, was unsatisfactory to the people at large, and a notion became
general that a pound was merely an abstraction. Some writers had argued,
he continued, that gold was unfit to be a particular medium, because
it was an article of commerce. There were several theories upon this
subject. For instance, Mr. Ricardo conceived that paper should be
convertible only when the notes tendered for specie should reach to
upwards of a certain high amount; but he preferred, to adhere to
the present system of a single gold standard, and a five pound note
convertible into gold. The right honourable baronet next proceeded to
state his views respecting the principle for the regulation of a paper
currency, making a distinction between bills of exchange and those
promissory notes, which, being payable to bearer, served the direct
purposes of money. He next stated the outline of the practical measures
he was prepared to recommend. He remarked: "I propose, with respect to
the Bank of England, that there should be an actual separation of the
two departments of issue and banking--that there should be different
offices to each, and a different system of account. I likewise propose
that to the issue department should be transferred the whole amount
of bullion now in the possession of the Bank, and that the issue of
bank-notes should hereafter take place on two foundations: first, on a
definite amount of securities, and, after that, exclusively upon that of
bullion; so that the action of the public would, in this latter respect,
govern the amount of the circulation. There will be no power in the
Bank to issue notes on deposits and discount of bills; and the issue
department will have to place to the credit of the banking department
the amount of notes which the issue department by law will be entitled
to issue. With respect to the banking business of the Bank, I propose
that it should be governed on precisely the same principles as would
regulate any other body dealing with Bank of England notes. The fixed
amount of securities on which I propose that the Bank of England should
issue notes is £14,000,000; and the whole of the remainder of the
circulation is to be issued exclusively on the foundation of bullion.
I propose that there should be a complete and periodical publication
of the accounts of the Bank of England, both of the banking and issue
departments, as tending to increase the credit of the Bank, and to
prevent panic and needless alarm. I would, therefore, enact by law that
there should be returned to the government a weekly account of the
issue of notes by the Bank of England; of the amount of bullion; of
the fluctuations of the bullion; of the amount of the deposits; and, in
short, an account of every transaction, both in the issue department and
the banking department of the Bank of England; and that the government
should forthwith publish, unreservedly and weekly, a full account of the
circulation of the Bank." Sir Robert Peel next explained the regulations
proposed by him for private banks. The general rule, he said, would be
to draw a distinction between the privilege of issue, and the conduct of
banking business: the object being to limit competition, but to make the
great change with as little detriment as possible to private interests.
From this time no new bank of issue would be constituted; but all those
existing would be allowed to retain the privilege, upon condition that
they do not exceed the present amount, to be calculated upon the average
of a term of years. This would enable the Bank of England to know the
extent of issue with which it would have to compete. While the issues
would be restricted, banking business would be facilitated; the
privilege of suing and being sued, at present withheld from joint-stock
banks, would be accorded; the law of partnership would be so altered,
that while the acts of an individual director, or otherwise authorized
partner, would bind the whole, the acts of an unauthorized partner would
not do so; and joint-stock banks in London, at present forbidden to
accept bills for a date of less than six months, would be placed on an
equality with other banks, and allowed to accept bills of any amount and
any date. If the last privilege were abused by the circulation of small
bills, he would then appeal to parliament to correct the evil. All
joint-stock banks would be required to publish a full and complete
periodical list of all partners and directors, and banks of issue to
publish an account of their issues. Joint-stock banks would also be
prohibited from having shares of less than £100, £50, or some fixed
amount; and no new joint-stock bank should be constituted except upon
application to a government department, on registration of prospectuses,
and probably registration of shares and paid-up capital. Reverting
to the proposition respecting the Bank of England, Sir Robert Peel
remarked:--"It is to be allowed issues to the extent of a fixed
amount of securities, £14,000,000. The existing loan of £11,000,000 to
government, at three per cent., will be continued, there appearing no
advantage in change.

"The remaining £3,000,000 will be based upon exchequer bills and other
securities, over which the Bank will have entire control; with
the power, however, of limiting its issues on that portion of the
securities, to restore the exchanges, and so forth: there could hardly
be a case in which the securities could safely be diminished to less
than £11,000,000. The Bank will also be allowed to extend its issues
beyond the £14,000,000 on emergency, but only with the assent of three
members of the government; and in such case the whole of the net profit
on any amount beyond the £14,000,000 will revert to government. A
case might arise such as the sudden extinction of £2,000,000 of the
provincial currency, which would need an extension of the Bank currency
to fill the gap. Without seeing any great advantage in the 'legal
tender' clause, it is proposed to continue it, in order to facilitate
the circulation of bank paper. The pecuniary arrangements between the
Bank and government have to be explained, The Bank retains the privilege
of issuing notes on securities to the amount of £14,000,000, at three
per cent., which would yield £420,000. From this there are deductions to
be made. The total cost of the Bank on an issue of £20,000,000, has been
estimated at £117,000; but take it at about £113,000, which, taken from
£420,000, leaves £307,000. There is then to be deducted about £60,000
composition with the Stamp-Office for the privilege of issuing notes.
Then there is about £24,000 paid by the Bank to those bankers who
undertake to issue Bank of England notes: taking-one per cent, on a
payment of three per cent. The result, after subtracting these items, is
£220,000 derived from the issuing of notes. Hitherto the Bank has paid
£120,000 to government for its privileges: its privileges are now to be
affected; but on the other hand increased stability is to be given to
its banking business; and I propose that in future the Bank should
still pay that sum, besides the £60,000 for the composition with the
Stamp-Office, making in all about £180,000. Government pay to the Bank
£240,000 for the management of the public debt; and the difference
between the two last sums would be the balance that government would
have to pay over to the Bank." After stating that the present measure
would not be extended to Ireland and Scotland, Sir Robert Peel
concluded with moving a string of resolutions which embodied the above
propositions. His scheme met with general approbation; and on the 20th
of May, the house having gone into committee on the resolutions, Sir
Robert Peel made some further explanations upon points in the detail
of the measure. He would suppose, he said, that the circulation in
the country was £8,000,000; that the country banks would desire, by
agreement with the Bank of England, to reduce this by one-half; and that
it might become necessary for that establishment to make fresh issues in
order to supply the vacuum. The cases then in which he would allow the
Bank to do so, would be those of a country bank failing, or closing,
or commuting its own circulation for that of the Bank of England.
With respect to the question, whether the bullion on which the Bank of
England was to issue its notes should include silver, he proposed that
it should; but without departing from the great principle that there
must be but one standard, and that standard a gold one; all he meant
was, that if a party brought silver to the Bank, the Bank might, within
a certain limit, give its notes in exchange for it. If this were not
permitted, the Bank having no interest in keeping a supply of silver,
would probably cease to keep it; but it was important for the country
to have access to such a supply, not only for domestic circulation, but
with reference to foreign commerce. He proposed, therefore, to permit
an issue of notes upon silver bullion, in the proportion of one-fifth of
the whole, or one part in silver to four in gold. With respect to banks
of issue, he would save them their circulation until parliament should
make further order, and he would compute that circulation upon the
average of its amount from the 6th May, 1842, to the 6th May, 1844,
requiring henceforth a weekly publication of it. Where one bank took
the business of another, the benefit of the averages of the extinguished
bank should be given in the circulation of the surviving bank. If a bank
should increase its branches, it would not be allowed to increase
its total issues. If private banks should coalesce, the consolidated
concern, being still a private bank, should be permitted to retain the
benefit of the circulation of all the component banks, but a change
of character would not be permitted: joint-stock banks would not be
authorized to buy up the circulation of private banks. Sir Robert Peel
next explained the way in which he intended that the new plan should
operate with respect to those banks which had been issuing Bank of
England notes, and announced that the Bank of England was prepared to
enter into negociations with other banks for arrangements under which
its notes should be circulated by them. He concluded by adverting to
some exceptions which had been taken to some parts of his measure,
in doing which he showed that they were founded upon safe and just
principles. After a brief discussion, the resolutions were passed, and
the second reading of the bill founded upon them was moved on the 13th
of June. Mr. Hawes moved as an amendment:--"That no sufficient evidence
has been laid before the house to justify the proposed interference with
banks of issue in the management of their circulation." This motion
was supported by Messrs. Hastie, Woolehouse, C. Buller, Gisborne, and
Williams; and opposed by the chancellor of the exchequer, Sirs R.
Peel and W. Clay, and Messrs. Hume and Warburton. On a division it was
negatived by a majority of one hundred and eighty-five against thirty;
and after some further discussions in committee, in which some members
attempted to introduce modifications in the bill, all the original
propositions were carried, and, with the exception of a small section,
witli the general concurrence of the house. In the house of lords it
received very little discussion. The first and second readings passed
_sub silentio_; and it went through committee without any division: the
Earl of Radnor and Lord Ashburton only expressing fears of its practical
working.


DISSENTERS' CHAPELS BILL.

During this session a bill was brought into the house of lords by the
lord-chancellor for confirming the possession of religious endowments in
the hands of dissenters, and arresting such litigation as had recently
taken place in the case of Lady Hewley's charities, which were endowed
by her for Calvinistic Independents, but which had gradually passed
to the Unitarians, whose occupancy was successfully opposed. The
lord-chancellor's bill proposed to terminate all further legal
controversy respecting the right to voluntary endowments connected with
dissenting chapels, by vesting the property in the religious body in
whose hands it had been for twenty years. The bill was opposed in
the house of lords by the Bishops of London and Exeter, the Earl of
Winchilsea, and Lords Kenyon, Teynham, and Mountcashel; but it was
carried by a large majority. Before it came under discussion in the
house of commons a vigorous opposition was manifested against it,
especially by the Trinitarian dissenters. Public meetings were held,
and petitions were sent up from all quarters against the obnoxious
proposition. Under these circumstances, on the 6th of June, when the
second reading of the bill was moved, the attorney-general explained its
objects, which, he said, had been misunderstood. The alarm which this
bill had created, namely, that it would have the effect of encouraging
Unitarian doctrines, he contended was wholly unfounded. An act had been
passed in 1813, legalizing the foundation of schools and chapels for
the benefit of the Unitarians, and placing them upon the same footing
as other Protestant dissenters. The question then arose respecting
foundations which might have been made before 1813, when the Unitarians
were excepted out of the Toleration Act: namely, would they or ought
they to take from that body, which was now legal, and could legally
endow chapels, that which they possessed, because it was given them
before the year 1813? The first clause of the bill put not only
Unitarians, but all Protestant dissenters on the same footing; it
rendered the toleration act retrospective. The second clause, he
continued, related to dissenting chapels only; not to general charitable
foundations. By the present law, the will of the donor must be binding;
but it was not to be assumed, in the case of every religious charity,
that it was founded for a particular sect, even though the donor held
the doctrine of that sect. It was said, that the bill would encourage
trustees to violate their trusts, and hand over the property for
purposes not intended by the donor. It could do no such thing.
Dissenting chapels were thus founded:--Congregations of dissenters
wishing to establish places of meeting and chapels for worship, formed
together voluntary associations, which associations subscribed funds,
purchased the land, and built the chapels. In the first instance these
chapels were vested in trustees; but he was told that so little had the
trustees to do with the arrangement or control of these chapels, that
in the great majority of cases when the original trustees died, no
fresh ones were appointed to succeed them: the congregation relying upon
possession. In this country every question of private right was decided
upon usage; twenty or thirty years' possession prevailed against both
the crown and the church. Why then should it not be applied to the
property in dissenters' chapels? He was told that the consequence might
be, that property now possessed by Presbyterians or other dissenters
would in the lapse of time fall into the hands of the Unitarians. How
could it be so? By the bill the usage must be that of the congregation.
Notwithstanding this explanation, the bill was strenuously opposed in
the commons by Sir Kobert Inglis, who moved that it should be read a
second time that day six months, and by other members of the house, who
looked upon it as outraging and insulting the Christian feeling of the
country. On a division the amendment of Sir Robert Inglis was negatived
by a majority of three hundred and seven against one hundred and seven.
The house then went into committee on the bill, and having made some
unimportant amendments to it; it passed and was sent up to the lords,
where it again became the subject of discussion. It was opposed in its
progress by the Bishop of London, who moved "that the amendments be
taken into consideration that day three months," but this was negatived
by two hundred and two against forty-one, and the bill then passed.


SEES OF BANGOR AND ST. ASAPH.

During this session the Earl of Powis renewed his proposition for
repealing so much of the act of the 6th and 7th William IV. as related
to the union of the sees of St. Asaph and Bangor. In Ins speech the
noble lord laid great stress on the numerous petitions from every county
in North Wales, and from many in South Wales and England, as testifying
the unanimous feeling pervading the clergy throughout both countries
and all classes in Wales against the suppression of one of those ancient
bishoprics. On its second reading, the measure was opposed by the Duke
of Wellington and the Archbishop of Canterbury; and supported by the
Bishops of St. Davids, Lincoln, Exeter, London, and Salisbury, and the
Earls of Winchilsea and Harrowby. On a division, it was carried by
a majority of forty-nine against thirty-seven; but though the second
reading was thus carried, a difficulty arose in another quarter, which
frustrated the endeavours of the friends of North Wales to preserve the
integrity of its episcopate. On the motion for its third reading, the
Duke of Wellington announced that the bill was one which touched the
prerogative of the crown, and that he was not authorized to give her
majesty's consent to its further progress. The manner in which the
question of the crown's prerogative arose in this case was explained by
the lord-chancellor. His lordship remarked, that during the vacancy of
a see, the temporalities belonged to the crown; and any alterations in a
see, therefore, affected the pecuniary interests of the crown; and there
could be no doubt that where the pecuniary interests of the crown
were concerned, its consent was necessary. He doubted whether he was
authorized in putting a question affecting the royal prerogative without
the consent of her majesty; and he suggested the appointment of a
committee to search for precedents. À committee was appointed, and under
these circumstances Lord Powis announced his determination to withdraw
the bill, stating at the same time his conviction that the matter would
not rest where it was. He believed that during the whole period the
house of Hanover had been on the throne there was no precedent to be
found to sanction the present course adopted by government. There was
no measure that parliament had expressed a wish for them to consider,
in which the crown had introduced its authority to prevent the further
consideration of that measure.


MISCELLANEOUS MEASURES OF THE SESSION.

In the course of the session there were several acts passed of great
utility without any prominent discussion. One of the most important of
these was an act for the regulation of railways, which was brought in
by Mr. Gladstone, and which embodied a variety of enactments designed
to protect the public against the injurious effects of monopoly and
combination, by vesting in the government a controlling power over such
companies as should thereafter come to solicit powers from parliament,
and a right of intervention for the reduction of charges and tolls
whenever the profits of a railway should exceed the maximum of ten per
cent, on its capital. The act also contained salutary regulations
for securing economy and comfort in travelling to the poorer classes.
Another act passed contained provisions of practical importance for the
regulation of joint-stock companies. The main object of this measure
was to protect the public against fictitious and delusive schemes,
by requiring from all joint-stock companies the observance of certain
conditions for the purpose of ascertaining their real character, and
subjecting them to an efficient responsibility. There was to be a system
of registration under a proper superintendence, whereby the names and
descriptions of the projectors, and the particular nature and objects
of the undertaking were required to be enrolled at an office established
for that purpose. Upon compliance with these regulations, certain
privileges were to be accorded to the company, and some anomalies and
inconveniences heretofore existing removed. Reports were also to be
made annually to parliament by an officer to be appointed under the act,
relating to such companies as should have come within its provisions
during the year. A third Act remodelled the entire system of
turnpike-road management in South Wales, the abuses of which had given
rise to the Rebecca riots. The leading principle of this measure was the
consolidation of trusts, the debts of those existing being paid off by a
system of arbitration, to be conducted by three commissioners appointed
by government; the money required for this purpose being lent by
the treasury, and secured on the rates of the several counties. The
consolidation having been effected, all the roads in each county were
to be administered by a now executive body, consisting partly of
_ex-officio_ members, partly of magistrates, and partly of ratepayers.
A further alteration was made this session in the original poor-law
amendment act, the principal feature of which was an alteration in
the enactments of the statute of 1835, relating to the maintenance of
illegitimate children. By this alteration, a more efficient mode of
obtaining from the father a provision for his child's maintenance was
placed in the power of the mother, by means of a proceeding in which
she herself was entitled to make the application, and not, as under the
original law, the officers of the parish: more stringent remedies were
also substituted for enforcing the remedy against the putative father
than had before existed. Towards the close of the session, repeated
discussions of an animated nature took place in both houses of
parliament, on the subject of a petition which was presented by Mr.
Thomas Duncombe, from Serafino Calderara, Joseph Mazzini, W. J. Linton,
and William Lovett, complaining that their letters had been opened at
the post-office. Mr. Duncombe, in the commons, and the Earl of Radnor
in the lords, moved for committees of inquiry, which were ultimately
appointed; and these committees made their reports during the session;
from which reports it appeared that the warrants of the secretary of
state had only been issued in peculiar emergencies; and that the cases
in which his power had been exercised formed a small annual average,
and did not amount to an invasion of private correspondence, which the
assailants of government had represented. No other result arose out of
the conflicts upon this subject than a bill introduced by Lord Radnor,
in the house of lords, for the abolition of the power complained of; but
this bill did not proceed beyond the first reading.


PROROGATION OF PARLIAMENT.

Parliament was prorogued by commission on the 5th of September. The
speech announced that her majesty had given her cordial assent to
the bill for regulating the issue of bank-notes; adverted to some
discussions which had taken place with the government of the king of the
French on events calculated to interrupt the friendly relations of the
two countries, but which danger had been averted; congratulated the
houses on the improvement which had taken place in the condition of
manufactures and commerce; and expressed high satisfaction at the spirit
of loyalty and cheerful obedience to the law manifested in all parts of
her majesty's kingdom. The commissioners concluded:--"We are commanded
by her majesty to assure you that when you shall be called upon to
resume the discharge of your parliamentary functions, you may place
entire reliance on the cordial co-operation of her majesty in your
endeavours to improve the social condition and to promote the happiness
and contentment of her people." Thus ended this important session--a
session signalized in the addition to the statute-book of severed
important measures, conceived in a safe and judicious spirit of reform,
well suited to the circumstances of the country and to the temper of the
age.


THE STATE OF INDIA.

The event of chief interest connected with the present year was the
recall of Lord Ellenborough, the governor-general, by the unanimous vote
of the court of directors. This subject, as noticed in a previous page,
gave rise to discussion in both houses of parliament. What were the real
motives of the directors of the East India Company in exercising their
right of recalling a governor-general, which from non-use had almost
become obsolete, and in thus acting in direct opposition to the views
and wishes of her majesty's government have never been fully developed;
and the public have therefore been driven to conjecture on the subject.
The most probable opinion, perhaps, may be, that the directors were
offended at his evident mania for military achievements. Throughout the
whole of his administration he showed his desire of conquest; and
even when he left India he did not scruple to say, at a farewell
entertainment given him by the military society of Calcutta, that the
only regret he felt in leaving India was that of being separated from
the army; and that the most interesting period of his life was that
which he had passed in cantonments and camps. Another cause of offence
may have been derived from his proclamations, which were offensive to
good taste, and which justly exposed him to ridicule. His behaviour
towards the directors also was by no means judicious; for, although he
had bound himself to attend exclusively to their orders, he was by no
means an obedient servant. But whatever may have been the directors'
motives, Lord Ellenborough was recalled from his government, and Sir
Henry Hardinge was, at the suggestion of Sir Robert Peel, appointed his
successor; and he arrived in India in the month of July.

In Scinde nothing of importance occurred this year. The worst foe which
the British had to encounter there was the climate, owing to which a
distressing sickness prevailed among the troops. In consequence of this
several Bengal native regiments were ordered to march on Scinde; and,
although they at first refused to march, from an impression that they
were destined for foreign service, they finally marched thither, with
the exception of the thirty-fourth native infantry; and that regiment
was ignominiously broken at Meerut, in presence of all the troops at the
station.

During this year a governor-general was appointed over our recent
acquisitions in China, in the person of Mr. Davies, well-known for his
admirable work on China, and who had resided many years at Macao, as
chief superintendent under the East India Company. Mr. Davies arrived on
the 7th of May at Hong Kong, the seat of the new government; and, at the
end of July, Sir Henry Pottinger, whose mission to that empire had been
attended with such complete success, sailed for England.


PROCEEDINGS AGAINST MR. O'CONNELL.

It has been seen in the last chapter that the trial of Mr. O'Connell
and his associates for a seditious conspiracy was postponed till the
commencement of the present year. It was intended that the trial should
commence on the 15th of January; and, although the defendant sought to
obtain a postponement of it till the 1st of February, this intention
was carried out. On that day the Court of Queen's Bench was crowded
with barristers and spectators, in the expectation that the trial would
commence. Before the jury were sworn, however, Sir Coleman O'Loghlen,
on the part of Mr. O'Connell, challenged the array, on the ground of the
irregularities in the preparation of the jury lists, stating at the same
time that the challenges of the other counsellors, or traversers,
as they were called, because they had traversed the indictment,
were identically the same, and would be handed in very shortly. The
attorney-general demurred to the challenge; on which the question
previously debated was re-argued. The judges, however allowed the
demurrer; and then the court adjourned without swearing the jury. On
the 16th, after some delay, twelve jurymen were sworn, when Mr. Napier
opened the pleadings; after which Mr. Smith, the attorney-general,
opened the case. The court adjourned at five o'clock; and next day the
hearing of evidence commenced, which continued up to the 11th day of the
trial, January 26th, on which day the case for the prosecution closed.
On the next day Mr. Shiel opened the case for the defence, as counsel
for himself and Mr. John O'Connell. In his speech he contended that Mr.
O'Connell shrank with abhorrence from the sanguinary aims imputed to
him; and bitterly complained that poems and articles in newspapers
should be brought as evidence against him, as if he were the editor of
the several journals from which that evidence had been collected. It was
like making, he said, Mr. Cobden answerable for all that appeared in the
_Chronicle_, or the _Globe_, or the _Sun_: he was accused, in fact, of
conspiracy with men who, so far from conspiring together, were rivals.
"They pay their addresses to the same mistress; but they cordially
detest each other." How formidable, then, was this doctrine of legal
conspiracy! In 1819, when England was in a perilous condition, it was
proved that men were drilled by night near Manchester; yet an English
jury would not find Henry Hunt guilty of conspiracy. Mr. Shiel next
undertook to show that his clients' objects were legal, and sought by
legal means; and concluded with an impassioned address to the jury on
behalf of Mr. O'Connell and all the traversers. He asked:--"Shall I,
who stretch out to you in behalf of the son the hand whose fetters the
father had struck off, live to cast my eyes upon that domicile of sorrow
in the vicinity of this great metropolis, and say, 'Tis there they
have immured the liberator of Ireland with his fondest and best beloved
child. No; it shall never be! You will not consign him to the spot to
which the attorney-general invites you to surrender him. No! When the
spring shall have come again, and the winter shall have passed--when
the spring shall have come again, it is not through the windows of this
mansion that the father of such a son, and the son of such a father,
shall look upon those green hills on which the eyes of so many a captive
have gazed so wistfully in vain; but in their own mountain home again
they shall listen to the murmurs of the great Atlantic; they shall go
forth, and inhale the freshness of the morning air together; 'they
shall be free of mountain solitude;' they will be encompassed with
the loftiest images of liberty upon every side; and if time shall have
stolen its suppleness from the father's knee, or impaired the firmness
of his tread, he shall lean on the child of her that watches over him
from heaven, and shall look out from some high place, far and wide, into
the island whose greatness and whose glory shall be ever associated with
his name. In your love of justice; in your love of Ireland; in your
love of honesty and fair play, I place my confidence. I ask you for an
acquittal, not only for the sake of your country, but for your own. Upon
the day when this trial shall have been brought to a termination;
when, amidst the burst of public expectancy, in answer to the solemn
interrogatory which shall be put to you by the officer of the court, you
shall answer, 'Not guilty,' with what a transport shall that glorious
negative be welcomed! How will you be blessed, adored, worshipped! And
when retiring from the scene of excitement and of passion, you shall
return to your own tranquil homes, how pleasurably will you look upon
your children, in the consciousness that you will have left them a
patrimony of peace, by impressing upon the British cabinet that
some other measure beside a state prosecution is necessary for the
pacification of your country." On the thirteenth day Mr. Moore addressed
the jury on behalf of the Reverend Mr. Tierney, and Mr. Hatchell for Mr.
Ray. On the fourteenth day Mr. Fitzgibbon spoke on behalf of Dr.
Gray, his address occupying two days. In the course of his address an
extraordinary scene took place, in consequence of a challenge which the
attorney-general had sent to Mr. Fitzgibbon to fight a duel. Of this
circumstance Mr. Fitzgibbon took every advantage. After handing the note
to the judges which contained the challenge, he said that he left him
to their lordships to answer for his conduct. Mutual recriminations
and explanations followed; but the matter resulted in Mr. Smith's
withdrawing the note, which was allowed by the consent of all parties.
On the four following days, Messrs. Fitzgibbon, Whiteside, M'Donnah,
and Henn, successively addressed the court for different clients. On the
nineteenth day, Mr. O'Connell commenced his defence. He began by showing
that he had a right to demand from the jury a favourable verdict; after
which he came to the consideration of the case itself; in doing which he
retraced, with more or less of variety, arguments already employed. In
referring to the indictment, he said that it was the history of the last
nine months; and that he defied the most brilliant imagination to grasp
the monstrous accumulation of matter. Its entire strength rested on the
meaning of that cabalistic word, "conspiracy." He continued:--"If, my
lords, I look into the dictionary for the meaning of that word, I find
that it is 'a secret agreement between several to commit a crime;' and
that is the rational, common-sense definition of it. This word,
however, in recent times, has been taken under special protection by the
government; and the definition of it now is, not only a secret agreement
between several to commit crime, but they have taken two loops to their
bow, and the further depiction given of it is, to effect, or
attempt to effect, a legal object by means that are considered illegal;
and thus a conspiracy is spelt out by the construction put upon the
means that are used to attain the object sought, however legitimate that
object may be. It has been admitted even by the crown, that in this case
there is no privacy, no secresy, no definite agreement to do anything
whatsoever; but, above all, no secret agreement, no secret society, no
private information. It has been admitted by the crown that there has
not been even one act of private communication; that everything was
openly avowed, published to the world; that this 'secret conspiracy'
had no secrecy at all. What a monstrous thing it would be to hold that
that was a conspiracy which everybody knew of, everybody heard of, and
three-fifths of the people of this country were engaged in. And what
was the evidence of those conspirators assembling together? That Mr.
Such-a-one attended at such a meeting; that Mr. Barret attended at a
certain meeting; and that Mr. Duffy attended once or twice; that I.
myself attended; and this is the way the charge of conspiracy is to
be spelt out. Is it common sense that that should be denominated a
conspiracy? Conspiracy! where was it made? when was it made? how was it
made? Was it made in winter, or in summer? in spring or in autumn? Was
it made on a holiday, or on a Sunday, or on a week day? Tell me the
hour, the week, the month, the year it was made? In which of the three
quarters of the twelve months did the gestation of this conspiracy
commence? Who proposed it? Who seconded it? Who was present at it? I
don't know whether it was said that I was present at the concoction of
this conspiracy, or this agreement, private or public, or who else was
there. When and where did it take place? Ought I not, at all events, to
have the advantage of being-able to prove an alibi? No; but you must go
over nine months, and toss up which time or place you may select. Do you
not believe that if there was a conspiracy it would be proved, and that
the only reason it was not proved, is, because it did not exist? The
attorney-general told you it did exist; that it must have existed: but
that is all imaginary; and you are called upon to find me 'guilty' if
you imagine that this agreement was entered into. I don't want to speak
of the talents of the attorney-general. I admit the ingenuity, the
talent, and the industry with which he conducted this case. He was
eleven hours, eleven mortal hours detailing the facts to you. What did
he tell you the conspiracy consisted of? He made a long statement, and
when he came to the end, he told you to go back to the beginning, find
out the conspiracy, and what it consisted of. I say, gentlemen of the
jury, without tire least affectation, if any gentleman could have
found out evidence of a conspiracy, it would have been found by the
attorney-general." Mr. O'Connell proceeded at great length to defend the
means of his agitation, and then proceeded to vindicate its object--the
repeal of the union. On the latter subject he remarked:--"I mean first
to demonstrate that the English Parliament has, from the remotest
period at which she possessed the power, governed Ireland with a narrow,
jealous, restrictive, and oppressive policy. By way of parenthesis,
I would first beg of you to recollect the history of the woollen
manufactures of Ireland, in the reign of a monarch whom you are not
disposed to condemn. I shall next demonstrate in succession, that the
transactions of 1782 were intended to be a final adjustment, and that
it was then intended and agreed that the Irish parliament, after having
achieved its independence, should maintain it, and that the union was
forced upon the Irish people against their consent, by the most criminal
means. I shall next show you in detail the many evils that resulted from
the union, and the gross injustice of the enactment of that statute. I
shall show you the increasing distress and destitution which have
arisen from that statute; and that there is no probability of restoring
prosperity to this country, or of avoiding ultimate separation from
England, save by the restoration of her parliament." In support of these
propositions, Mr. O'Connell read extracts from the writings and speeches
of various statesmen, both native and foreign. In conclusion he said to
the jury:--"I leave the case in your hands. I deny I have done anything
to stain me. I reject with contempt the appellation of conspirator. I
have acted boldly, in the open day, in the presence of the magistracy:
there lias been nothing secret or concealed. I have struggled for
the restoration of the parliament of my native country. Others have
succeeded before me; but, succeed or fail, it is a struggle to make the
fairest land in the world possess those benefits which nature intended
she should enjoy." On the next day some evidence was gone into on behalf
of the defendants, in the course of which it was proved that on the 16th
of July, when an arch was erected bearing the inscription, "Ireland,
her parliament, or the world in a blaze," Mr. O'Connell expressed
disapprobation of it, and Mr. Steele stood by to see that it was taken
down before the people were fully assembled. The next two days were
chiefly occupied by the solicitor-general's reply, which recapitulated
the principal points of the evidence, and stated its bearings upon the
different charges laid in the indictment. After he had concluded,
the lord-chief-justice commenced the charge: in doing which he first
explained the nature of the indictment, and of the single offence with
which the traversers were charged, "conspiracy;" then explained the law
of public discussion and public meeting; next proceeded to consider
the evidence that had been given; then commented on the large funds
collected in Ireland, England, Scotland, and America, towards the
"exchequer" of the association; and finally, alluding to the scheme
for bringing into disrepute the courts of justice as established by law
through the arbitration courts, showed in what maimer the conspiracy
was to be inferred. He asked:--"Have you or have you not Dr. Gray coming
forward and telling the assembled multitude that the time was coming
when they would be taken out of the hands of those petty tyrants who at
present preside in their courts of justice? Have you or have you not Mr.
O'Coimell himself adverting to the same system at the Clifden and other
subsequent meetings; recommending the appointment of arbitration courts,
and the placing thereon the magistrates who had been dismissed? And have
you or have you not Mr. John O'Coimell making a speech recommending the
same systems, and appearing himself to act under the appointment of the
repeal association, in presiding over an arbitration court established
in Blackrock?" The jury retired about half-past seven o'clock, and the
judges withdrew. Later in the evening, Mr. Justice Crampton returned,
and remained in court to await the return of the jury. They brought in
a verdict of "guilty" against all the traversers on various counts; but
stated "no finding" upon others, deeming them too comprehensive. This
verdict was handed back by Mr. Justice Crampton, saying, that it was
imperfect: they must find a verdict of "guilty" or "not guilty" upon
every part and every person. Finally, they were ordered to be locked
up till Monday, on which day they were summoned, and an issue paper was
given them, which set forth the five several issues in the indictment
in a distinct shape, against which they were directed to write their
finding. This was done, and all the prisoners were found guilty on one
or other of the counts, and some of them, including Mr. O'Coimell,
on them all, Sentence was pronounced on the 30th of May against the
traversers, with the exception of the Reverend Mr. Tierney, against whom
the attorney-general did not press judgment, by Mr. Justice Burton in
these terms:--"With respect to the principal traverser, the court is
of opinion that he must be sentenced to be imprisoned for the space of
twelve calendar months; and that he is further to be fined in the sum of
£2000, and bound in his own recognizances in the sum of £5000, and two
sureties in £2500, to keep the peace for seven years. With respect to
the other traversers, we have come to the conclusion that to each shall
be allotted the same sentence: which is, that they be imprisoned for the
space of nine calendar months, each of them to pay £50 fine, and enter
into their own recognizances of £1000, and two sureties of £500, to
keep the peace for seven years." In accordance with this sentence the
traversers were imprisoned: but in consequence of the sympathy, real
or supposed, which they met with in the English parliament, their full
sentence was not carried into execution. On the 9th of August, Messrs.
Shiel, Wyse, Lord John Russell, and others, called upon government to
release them from imprisonment; and the result of this appeal was,
that on the 4th of September, the judgment of the house of lords
was pronounced, reversing the judgment of Mr. O'Connell and his
co-defendants. The prisoners were freed from confinement; but the result
of the trial was, that the virulence of the agitation for repeal abated.


CONTINENTAL AFFAIRS.

France this year was engaged in a war with the Emperor of Morocco, over
whose forces the French troops triumphed on the banks of the river Isly
on the 14th of August. The result of this battle was a treaty between
the two countries, in which the Emperor of Morocco engaged to prevent
troops from assembling on his frontiers for the invasion of Algeria.
During the autumn, Louis Philippe and the Emperor of Russia paid a visit
to Queen Victoria, and stayed a few days in England, where they were
treated with all due honours. In Spain the civil war which had so long
convulsed the nation was ended; but it was succeeded by a state of
doubtful tranquillity, and isolated insurrections broke out in various
parts of the country, which were only put down by force of arms. The
same fate awaited Portugal: there was a revolt of troops at Torres
Novas, headed by Count Bomfin; but the rebels having shut themselves up
in Almeida, that place was invested with government troops, and finally
surrendered, the leader of the insurrection taking refuge in flight.
In Greece the most important event was the framing of a constitutional
charter by the National Assembly, consisting of one hundred and seven
articles, which was signed and ratified, after some hesitation, by
King Otho. During this year the King of Prussia narrowly escaped
assassination at Ischl by the Burgomaster Tschech, who fired two shots
from a double-barrelled pistol in quick succession against the carriage.
In the early part of the year a conference took place at Vienna of
plenipotentiaries from the different German states to frame measures to
secure themselves by all the means in their power against the slightest
change in the existing order of things, which at this time were
threatened by a formidable parly, in the different states hostile to all
authority. In Sweden this j'ear witnessed the death of Bernadotte,
the king of that country, the most permanently successful of all the
generals who took part in the French revolution. Although of obscure
birth and a foreigner, he was called upon to wear the crown of Sweden
by the unanimous voice of the nation; and he so identified himself with
their interests, that he reigned in peace and died universally beloved
by his subjects. In Switzerland disturbances took place this year in the
Valais and at Lucerne: but order and tranquillity were quickly restored
by the federal troops of that country.


CHAPTER LVI.

{VICTORIA. 1845-1846}

     Meeting of Parliament..... Finance and Commercial
     Policy..... Retention of the Income Tax, &c...... The Sugar
     Duties Question..... Corn Laws and Free Trade..... The
     Affairs of Ireland..... Maynooth Improvement Bill, &c......
     Academical Education in Ireland..... Colonial Policy.....
     Question of the Oregon Territory..... Miscellaneous
     Measures  of   the   Session..... Prorogation of
     Parliament..... The Affairs of India..... The State of the
     Continent.


MEETING OF PARLIAMENT.

{A.D. 1845}

Parliament was opened by the queen in person on the 4th of February. The
speech first referred to the prosperous state of trade and commerce; to
the royal visits made to her majesty by the Emperor of Russia and the
King of France; to the estimates for the ensuing year; and to the peace
which at this time prevailed in Ireland. Her majesty continued:--"I
recommend to your favourable consideration the policy of improving and
extending the opportunities of academical education in Ireland. The
report of the commission appointed to inquire into the law and practice
in respect to the occupation of land is nearly prepared, and shall be
communicated to you immediately after its presentation. The state of
the law in regard to the privileges of the Bank of Ireland, and to other
banking establishments in that country, and in Scotland, will no doubt
occupy your attention. The health of the inhabitants of large towns
and populous districts in this part of the United Kingdom has been the
subject of recent inquiry before a commission, the report of which shall
be immediately kid before you. It will be highly gratifying to me if the
information and suggestions contained in that report shall enable you
to devise the means of promoting the health and comfort of the poorer
classes of my subjects. I congratulate you on the success of the
measures which three years since were adopted by parliament for the
purpose of supplying the deficiency in the public revenue, and arresting
the accumulation of debt in the time of peace. The act which was passed
at that time for imposing a tax upon income will shortly expire. It will
be for you to determine whether it may not be expedient to continue
its operation for a further period, and thus to obtain the means of
adequately providing for the public service, and at the same time of
making a reduction in other taxations. Whatever may be the result of
your deliberations in this respect, I feel assured that it will be your
determination to maintain an amount of revenue amply sufficient to meet
the necessary expenditure of the country, and firmly to uphold that
public credit which is indispensable to the national welfare. The
prospect of continued peace, and the general state of domestic
prosperity and tranquillity, afford a favourable opportunity for the
consideration of the matters to which I have directed your attention;
and I commit them to your deliberation, with the earnest prayer that you
may be enabled, under the superintending care and protection of Divine
Providence, to strengthen the feelings of mutual confidence and goodwill
between different classes of my subjects, and to improve the condition
of my people."


FINANCIAL AND COMMERCIAL POLICY--RETENTION OF THE INCOME-TAX, ETC.

The great scheme of commercial reform alluded to in her majesty's speech
at the opening of the session was brought forward by Sir Robert Peel,
in a committee of ways and means, on the 14th of February. The right
honourable baronet commenced by saying that though he had considerable
experience in the discharge of official duties, and though he had often
addressed the house on matters of great public concern, he could not
approach the subject on which he had then to address the committee
without great anxiety, and a deep consciousness how inadequate and
imperfect the explanation would be which he should endeavour to place
before it. After the declaration made in her majesty's speech, that
it was the intention of ministers to propose the continuance of the
income-tax for a certain number of years; he had no other alternative
than to submit to the house the general views which the government took
of the financial condition and the commercial policy of the country. In
explaining their views, after referring to the estimate of the probable
revenue and expenditure made by the chancellor of the exchequer in
April, 1844, and, after showing that the surplus revenue, on which
he had calculated for the whole year had been greatly exceeded by
the actual amount of revenue received on the 5th of January, 1845,
he proceeded to estimate the surplus revenue which would be in the
exchequer on the 5th of April in the present year, at a sum not less
than £5,000,000. He next submitted to the house an estimate of the
probable receipt of the revenue for the year ending the 5th of
April, 1846, on the assumption that the house would not sanction the
income-tax. He calculated that the receipts up to that period would be
£51,000,000, and the expenditure £48,557,000; but if they deducted from
this surplus the revenue derived from half a year's income-tax, which
would become due in the interim, and from the payment of the instalment
from China, there would then be a small deficiency in the revenue as
compared with the expenditure of the year. The question then arose,
whether ministers were justified in demanding, under such circumstances,
an increased expenditure on account of the public service. He was
satisfied that they were justified. He did not propose an increase
in the army, but he could not consent to its diminution. The military
estimate for the present year would be £6,600,000; and there were
reasons which induced him to propose an increased estimate for the navy;
namely, the growing necessity for a further protection to our commerce
in every part of the globe, and in the establishment of three new naval
stations--one on the coast of Africa, another in the Pacific, and
a third in the Chinese seas. He should propose an increase of four
thousand men, which would cost £184,000; and in respect of the vote for
the navy, and tire ordnance connected with the navy, there would be in
the votes of this year an increase of nearly one million. He thought the
revenues of the next year would meet this increased expenditure, even
if the house would not consent to continue the income-tax. It was quite
clear, however, that if it did not continue the income tax, there would
be a decrease of revenue in the following year. The question, therefore,
which he must put to the committee was, whether they would run the risk
of deficiency by making no provision to meet it, or whether they would
postpone the consideration of the deficiency till the year 1846. But
ministers were induced to propose the continuance of the property-tax
for a further period. If the committee sanctioned it, the revenue on
the 5th of April, 1846, would amount to £53,700,000; and so long as the
other sources of revenue were productive, might be calculated at that
sum, deducting only a sum of £600,000 from China, which would only
be receivable for one year more. He would take the amount then at
£53,100,000, and deducting £49,000,000, the estimated expenditure, from
that sum there would be a net surplus of £4,100,000, or if the committee
acquiesced in the increased naval estimates, £3,409,000. Sir Robert Peel
next approached the most important question of all; namely, the mode in
which this surplus was to be applied to the relief of taxation. If
the property-tax were continued, ministers intended to make a great
experiment with respect to taxation; and in explaining their views Sir
Robert Peel said that he would first take the customs, and submit to
the house a proposition with respect to the duty on sugar. On brown
Muscovado sugar, which now paid a duty of 25s. 3d., he proposed to
reduce the duty to 14s.; on free-labour sugar he proposed that the
protecting duty should not exceed 9s. 4d., and therefore the duty would
be 23s. 2d.; on British plantation sugars he proposed that the duty
should be 16s. 4d., instead of 25s. 3d.; that the duty on sugar imported
from India should be 21s. 9d.; and that the duty on free-labour
foreign sugar should be 21s. 9d.--thus retaining the whole amount of
discriminating duty which was imposed last year, but applying that
discriminating duty in a different manner; giving 9s. 4d. as a
protection on Muscovado sugar, and an increased protection of lis. 4d.
on the more valuable and costly article. Sir Robert Peel said that he
proposed to reduce the duty on molasses; and after giving an estimate
of the supply of sugar which he considered likely to come from our
possessions this year, stated that the effect which would be produced on
the price of sugar by this reduction in the duty would be a reduction of
three halfpence per pound. The estimated loss to the revenue from this
source would be £1,300,000. Sir Robert Peel next proceeded to state
that in the tariff of 1842 he had abolished generally the duty on all
exports, with the exception of some few articles: he now proposed to
abolish the duty on all articles. By this plan the export duty on coal
would cease to exist, which would be a loss to the revenue of £120,000.
He next proceeded to a consideration of the duties on raw materials used
in manufactures: the tariff included eight hundred and thirteen such
articles, and he proposed to remove the duties applicable to four
hundred and thirty of them; which would occasion a loss to the revenue
of about £320,000. He next stated that he was prepared to abolish the
duty on cotton-wool, which would cause a loss to the revenue of not
less than £680,000. These were all the alterations he proposed in
the customs; and the right honourable baronet next proceeded to the
excise-duties. Among the duties which he proposed to to repeal was the
auction-duty on the transfer of property. He likewise proposed that
auctioneers, instead of taking out several licences, at an expense of
five pounds each, for selling different articles, should take out one
general licence only, at fifteen pounds each; and as the number of
auctioneers was 4000, this would produce a revenue of £60,000. Sir
Robert Peel next stated that he proposed to relieve the article of glass
from all duty, the loss of revenue arising from which would be £642,000.
This was the whole of the articles, he said, on which he proposed a
remission of taxation; and the total immediate loss which the revenue
would sustain by their repeal or abolition, would amount to £3,338,000,
which would nearly absorb the surplus of £3,409,000. He confessed that
this was a bold experiment; but, responsible as he was to parliament
for its success, he was not afraid to ran the risk of making it. He
then proposed to the committee to continue the income-tax for a further
limited period of three years; because he had a confident persuasion
that the reduction in the price of articles of great importance would
be, if not a complete, yet a great compensation for its burden. He would
not say that it might not be wiser to give a longer time than three
years for testing this experiment; but he thought that parliament ought
to have a control over the duration of such a tax. Sir Robert Peel
concluded by expressing a hope that the house would be prepared to
decide on the principle of his resolutions on the following Monday, the
17th, and after several members had made some brief remarks on isolated
parts of the plan, most of them expressive of satisfaction with it, he
moved that the chairman report progress; and gave notice that on
the following Monday he would move--"That it is the opinion of the
committee, that, towards raising the supply to her majesty, the
respective duties on property, professions, trades, and offices, and the
stamp duties in Ireland, granted by two several acts passed in the fifth
year of her present majesty, be continued and further granted to
her majesty for a time to be limited." This resolution was read in a
committee of ways and means on Monday, the 17th of February, after which
Lord John Russel addressed the committee, factiously opposing the scheme
of the premier, without offering any sound practical suggestion, or
propounding any principle. Several amendments were moved by various
members; but they were all negatived, and the bill passed through
committee. A discussion of considerable length was renewed on the 10th
of March, by Mr. Charles Duller, but the bill was read a third time and
passed.

In the house of lords the principal discussion on the income-tax took
place on the 4th of April, when the third reading of the bill was moved
by the Earl of Ripon. The bill was read a third time and passed.


THE SUGAR-DUTIES QUESTION.

On the 24th of February, the house of commons having resolved itself
into a committee of ways and means, Mr. Gibson, with a view of obtaining
a permanent arrangement of the sugar-duties, moved, as an amendment
upon the resolution of Sir Robert Peel, a resolution stating that no
arrangement of these duties would be satisfactory and permanent, which
did not involve an equalization of duty on foreign and colonial sugar.
In support of this resolution Mr. Gibson called the attention of the
house to a plain matter of justice in taxation, and asserted that it was
not consistent with the fair performance of their functions, when
they were resolving themselves into a committee of ways and means to
consider of a supply to her majesty, in order to enable her to meet
the expenditure of the country, to levy another tax, which was not paid
either to the crown or to the exchequer, but to a class of men who had
not made good their claim to any compensation fora grievance inflicted
on them. The protection afforded to the West India proprietors, he said,
was not for revenue, for it defrauded revenue; not for the protection
of the producer, for his produce had not been increased; not for the
benefit of the exporter at home, for the export to those colonies were
stationary; and not to be defended on the score of consistency, since
Sir Robert Peel was going to admit cotton, the produce of the East
Indies and the United States of America, on the same terms. The motion
was seconded by Mr. Ewart, and supported by Lord Howick, and Messrs.
Ricardo, Cobden, Villiers, Miles, and Bright. On the other hand, it was
opposed by Sir George Clerk, and Messrs. James, Gladstone, Labouchere,
and Goulburn. On a division it was rejected by a majority of two hundred
and seventeen against eighty-four. Subsequently several amendments were
moved, but without success, with the exception of one proposed by Mr.
Hawes; namely, to the effect--"that provision be made in the bill for
the drawback of the amount of the duty reduced on such duty-paid sugar
as now remains in the queen's warehouses." This amendment was at first
resisted by Mr. Goulburn; but finding that the house was in favour of
it, Sir Robert Peel consented to make arrangements, not to return the
whole duty, but to make compensation for the loss. On this understanding
Mr. Hawes withdrew his amendment, and the bill passed through committee.
Various discussions took place, during the progress of the hill, upon
the other parts of the ministerial tariff, but they were all affirmed,
and the bill then passed. Its progress through the upper house was
speedily effected.


CORN-LAWS AND FREE TRADE.

This long-agitated and great question formed a prominent subject of
debate during this session. The first occasion which led to a general
discussion of the policy of the protective laws as regards agriculture,
was furnished by a motion made by Mr. Cobden, on the 13th March, "for
a select committee to inquire into the causes and extent of the alleged
existing agricultural distress, and into the effects of legislative
protection upon the interests of landowners, tenant-farmers, and
farm-labourers." In support of this motion Mr. Cobden endeavoured to
prove the existence of distress among the farmers; asserting that half
of them were in a state of insolvency, and that the other half were
paying rents out of their capital, and were fast hastening to the same
melancholy condition. Mr. Cobden next contended that there was a want
of security in tenure, and that this fact not only prevented the
application of capital, but that it also kept the land in a bad state of
cultivation. The farmer without a lease was afraid that if he made any
improvement in his farm, he should be called upon to pay a higher
rent; and he proved this fact by reference to the language used by many
distinguished members of agricultural associations. He asked why land
should not be let on the same condition as manufactories, which were
let with a schedule of the state of the manufactory; and when the tenant
left them he was bound to make compensation for any damage which it
might have suffered. Having advocated the plan of leasing farms at great
length, Mr. Cobden proceeded to contend that a free trade in corn would
be more beneficial to the farmers and to the labourers than to any other
class of the community. He had thought so before the new tariff; and
he contended so now with tenfold confidence. He then described the
lamentable condition of the agricultural peasantry; and asked the
landlords, after they had brought their labourers to such a melancholy
state, whether they could have anything to fear from risking this
inquiry? What had government done for them in their financial scheme?
Nothing that was calculated, if he had heard aright, to benefit the
agricultural population. Well, then, what would they do? Protection had
been a failure when it reached a prohibitory duty of 80s. a quarter; it
had been a failure when it reached the pivot price of 60s.; and it was a
failure now when they had got a sliding-scale; for they had admitted the
lamentable condition of their tenantry and peasantry. Let them accede,
then, to his proposition for a committee, and he would pledge himself to
explode the fallacy of agricultural protection, and to put an end to the
present system within two years from the publication of its report. Mr.
S. Herbert, secretary at war, announced that government would meet Mr.
Cobden's motion with a direct negative. On a division the motion was
negatived by a majority of two hundred and thirteen against one hundred
and twenty-one.

On the 3rd of June Mr. Ward resumed his exertions to obtain a select
committee to inquire into the existence of the peculiar burdens and
exemptions of the landed interests. Taking advantage of an admission
contained in a speech of Sir James Graham, that during the last twelve
months pauperism had diminished, and trade and commerce had improved in
the country because the price of wheat was low, Mr. Ward said that he
was not going to underrate the benefit produced by an abundant harvest,
but he believed that still greater benefit had been effected by the
the liberal policy of government. The idea that there were any peculiar
burdens on the land, was a fallacy peculiar to English gentlemen
brought up in the school of the corn-laws. He denied that the land-tax,
poor-rates, tithes, county-rates, highway-rates, the malt-tax, and
similar impositions, were peculiar burdens on land; but if they were,
he contended that there were to be set against them the exemptions
enjoyed by the land in not being liable to the legacy and probate duty,
and in the cultivation of it being relieved from the horse-tax, from the
tax on husbandry servants if employed for domestic services, and various
other taxes. Mr. Ward moved for a select committee of inquiry into this
subject; and his motion was supported by Dr. Bowring, and Messrs. Cobden
and Vernon Smith. Sir John Tyrell opposed it, as did also Messrs. Sidney
Herbert and Newdegate. On a division it was rejected by a majority of
one hundred and eighty-two against one hundred and nine.

The subject of the corn-laws was taken into more complete consideration
on the 26th of May, when, pursuant to notice, Lord John Russell moved
the following resolutions:--"That the present state of political
tranquillity, and the recent revival of trade, afford to this house
a favourable opportunity to consider of such measures as may tend
permanently to improve the condition of the labouring classes. That
those laws which impose duties, usually called protective, tend to
impair the efficiency of labour, to restrict the free interchange of
commodities, and to impose on the people unnecessary taxation. That the
present corn-law tends to check improvements in agriculture, produces
uncertainty in all farming speculations, and holds out to the owners
and occupiers of land prospects of special advantage which it fails to
secure. That this house will take the said laws into consideration,
with a view to such cautious and deliberate arrangements as may be most
beneficial to all classes of her majesty's subjects. That the freedom of
industry would be promoted by a careful revision of the law of parochial
settlement which now prevails in England and Wales. That a systematic
plan of colonization would partially relieve those districts of the
country where the deficiency of employment Iras been most injurious to
the labourers in husbandry. That the improvements made of late years
in the education of the people, as well as its more general diffusion,
have been seen with satisfaction by this house. That this house will
be ready to give its support to measures founded on liberal and
comprehensive principles, which may be conducive to the further
extension of religious and moral instruction. That a humble address be
presented to her majesty to lay the foregoing resolutions before her
majesty." In support of these resolutions, Lord John Russell made a long
and comprehensive speech, embracing the several topics to which they
had reference. Adverting to the corn-laws, he said, that experience had
shown that the present system was founded in error, and produced the
very evil against which it was intended to guard. The graduated scale
was a complete failure, and equally injurious to the purchaser and
consumer. It was contrary to all true commercial principles, and
was perfectly ruinous to the farmer. It also tended to check all
improvements in agriculture, and to render the cultivator of the soil
careless as to the system of cultivation which he pursued. Mr. Sharman
Crawford moved as an amendment that the following words be inserted
after the word "opportunity," in the first clause:--"To give immediate
attention to the claims, so repeatedly urged in the petitions of the
people, for the extension of the parliamentary suffrage, as well as--."
Sir James Graham, in reply, said that he agreed to the first resolution
moved by Lord John Russell, but not to the rest; and, therefore,
he moved the previous question. The house divided on Mr. Crawford's
amendment, which was negatived by a majority of two hundred and
fifty-three against thirty-three. Sir James Graham then moved the
previous question, which was carried by a majority of one hundred and
eighty-two against one hundred and four.

Mr. C. Villiers, according to his annual custom, on the 10th of June
submitted to the house of commons a motion for the appointment of
a committee of the whole house for the purpose of considering his
resolutions for the abolition of all restrictions on the importation of
foreign corn. On a division, the motion was negatived by a majority of
two hundred and fifty-four against one hundred and thirty-two.


AFFAIRS OF IRELAND--MAYNOOTH IMPROVEMENT BILL.

On the 3rd of April, Sir Robert Peel brought in a measure for improving
and increasing the grant to the college of Maynooth. The intention of
the premier had been made known before, and a large number of petitions
were on that evening presented against any such grant; in reference
to which Sir Robert Peel said that he had given timely notice of his
intention to consider the case of Maynooth in a friendly spirit; and
therefore he was not unprepared for the demonstration which had
been made, and which no doubt proceeded from persons actuated by
conscientious scruples. In continuation, he observed, that it appeared
to the ministers there were three courses which they might pursue:--to
continue the present system, and grant without alteration; to
discontinue the vote altogether, and to repudiate all connexion with
Maynooth; or liberally to adopt, improve, and extend the institution
provided for the education of the Roman Catholic priesthood. He
proceeded to discuss these three courses in succession; and after
showing that they could not conscientiously adopt the two first, he
said:--"There remains, therefore, but one other course, and that is the
course we are prepared to take. We are prepared, in a liberal sense and
confiding spirit, to improve that institution, and to elevate the tone
of education there. Will you not take that course?" Sir Robert Peel
then stated the proposals of government to the house. The trustees of
Maynooth college, he said, could purchase land to the extent of £1,000
per annum; but they could not receive it on any other terms than for the
lives of the trustees; he proposed to incorporate the trustees by the
title of "the trustees of Maynooth college;" and to enable them to hold
real property to the amount of £3,000 per annum, should members of
the Roman Catholic faith be desirous to contribute to the college so
incorporated. The stipend of each professor did not now exceed £120
per annum; instead of defining what should be the amount paid to each
professor, he proposed to allot to the trustees a certain sum, which
should be placed at their discretion for the payment of salaries. The
sum would admit of a payment of £600 or £700 per annum to the president
of the college; of £260 or £270 to the professors of theology; and of
£220 or £230 to the other professors. A sum not exceeding £6,000 would
be allotted to the trustees for making provision for the officers of
that institution. At present there were about four hundred and thirty
students in the college, divided into three classes: the twenty
Dumboyne students, the three senior classes, and the four junior
classes. It was proposed to allot £40 per annum to each of the Dumboyne
students: and to make provision on the whole for five hundred free
students; that there should be two hundred and fifty students in the
four junior classes, and two hundred and fifty in the three senior
classes, these being divinity students. For the maintenance of each
of these students, it was proposed that a sum should be placed at the
disposal of the trustees of £28 on the average. It was further proposed
that to each of the students in the three senior classes, £20 per annum
should be allowed for their own personal expenses. The sum required
for the students would be £14,560; the total sum for the establishment,
£26,360. It was further proposed that the college should be made, in
appearance and in fact, worthy of an institution of the kind; and that
proper provision should be made for the accommodation of the presidents
and professors; and for every purpose ministers asked for a vote, not
annual, of £30,000. Sir Robert Peel further stated, that it was proposed
the board of works should undertake the repairs of the college, as they
did of the other public buildings, in order that they might be conducted
with the greatest economy; and that the expenses of the repairs should
be an annual vote, included in the annual estimates for the board
of works, as in other cases. Instead of the present _ex-officio_
ministers--the lord-chancellor and the judges--it was further proposed
that the crown should appoint five visitors, who were to visit the
college once a year, and as often as the lord-lieutenant might direct.
These visitors were not to interfere with any matters relating to the
doctrine and discipline of the church of Rome; but for those objects
three more visitors would be elected by the other five, as at present
to be members of the Roman Catholic church. Such, Sir Robert Peel
continued, was an outline of the measure. It had not been the subject of
any stipulation with the authorities of the Roman Catholic church: but
the ministers had intimated their intentions to these dignitaries; and
they had every reason to believe they were satisfied with, and grateful
for, the measure. He added, in conclusion:--"We do not think that there
is any violation of conscientious scruples involved in our proposition.
We believe that it is perfectly compatible to hold steadfast the
profession of our faith without wavering, and at the same time to
improve the education, and to elevate the character of those who, do
what you will--pass this measure or refuse it--must be the spiritual
guides and religious instructors of millions of your fellow-countrymen."
Sir Robert Inglis met the motion for leave to bring in this bill by a
direct negative. Messrs. Law, Bruce, Grogan, and others, followed with
similar expressions of sentiment. Mr. Plumptre especially expressed
in strong terms his repugnance to the proposal on religious grounds;
avowing, as the basis of his objections, the belief that the Roman
Catholic religion was idolatrous. On the side of the liberal, all were
in favour of the motion, except Mr. T. Duncombe, who expressed himself
averse to all religious establishments supported out of the public
revenue. Some on the conservative side, as Lords Francis Egerton and
Sandon, and Mr. J. S. Wortley, spoke in favour of the measure. Several
of the Irish members anticipated a great improvement in the Roman
Catholic priesthood, and Lord John Russell, while he supported the
motion, expressed a hope that it was the commencement of a series of
measures which would unite the two countries in an enduring bond. On
a division, the motion for leave to bring in the bill was carried by
a large majority; but the measure, though destined to become law, was
subsequently most strenuously opposed, both in and out of parliament.
Those who were ardently attached to the vital principles of
Protestantism felt an apprehension that the endowment of the Roman
Catholic hierarchy in Ireland, and the rapid downfall of the established
church in that country, if not in England also, was involved in such a
measure; and their zeal being thus awakened, no exertions were spared
to frustrate the plans of government. On the second reading of the
bill being moved on the 11th of April, the measure was opposed by Mr.
Colquhoun. Mr. Colquhoun concluded by moving that the bill be read a
second time that day six months. Mr. Grogan followed on the same side;
and the Earl of Arundel and Mr. Gladstone supported the measure: the
latter stating that he did so in opposition to the prevailing opinion,
and to his own deeply cherished prepossessions. Mr. D'Israeli said that
Sir Robert Peel had declared there were three courses open to him. "In
a certain sense, and looking to his own position, he is right: there is
the course the right honourable gentleman has left; there is the course
that the right honourable gentleman is following; and there is usually
the course which the right honourable gentleman ought to pursue.
Perhaps, sir, I ought to say that there is a fourth course; because
it is possible for the house of commons to adopt one of those courses
indicated by the right honourable gentleman, and then having voted for
it, to rescind it." Mr. D'Israeli proceeded to complain of the course
pursued by Sir R. Peel towards his supporters, in which he indulged in
private personalities, which was strongly condemned by Mr. Roebuck, who
described his speech as being poor in execution as it was malicious in
motive. Mr. Roebuck proceeded to defend the measure; and he was followed
by Messrs. Fox Maule and Stafford O'Brien, both of whom opposed it. Mr.
Macauley considered it merely a matter of pounds, shillings, and pence:
it was not a question of principle, but purely a question between £9000
and £26,000. Mr. Shaw energetically opposed the endowment; and Lord
Lincoln and Mr. Sidney Herbert supported it. Mr. Byng, the venerable
member for Middlesex, also declared himself in favour of the measure;
and Lord Ashley and G. A. Hamilton opposed it; Lord Ashley had never
known a measure more important for good or evil, not even excepting the
Roman Catholic relief bill. His lordship contended that the proposal of
government amounted to almost a declaration, that, as far as the power
of enactments and statutes extended, the Roman Catholic religion should
never cease to be the religion of Ireland. But while Lord Ashley opposed
the measure, he disclaimed being actuated by any feeling of hostility
towards the people of Ireland. If he thought, indeed, that this
concession would really content the people of Ireland, he would pause
before he came to a decision in the matter. The bill was further
supported by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, Lords John Manners and
Russell, Sirs George Grey and James Graham, and Messrs. Cobden, Smyth,
and Shiel. On the other hand it was opposed by Messrs. Bright, dimming,
Bruce, Blackstone, Ferrand, Sharman Crawford, T. Duncombe, Muntz, and
Law. The debate was closed by Sirs Robert Inglis and Robert Peel; the
former against, and the latter for the measure. On a division the second
reading was carried by a majority of three hundred and twenty-three
against one hundred and seventy-six. The battle, however, was not yet
ended. On the order of the day being read for going into committee, Mr.
Ward moved the following resolution as an amendment:--"That it is the
opinion of this house, that any provision to be made for the purposes of
the present bill, ought to be taken from the funds already applicable
to ecclesiastical purposes in Ireland." A long debate ensued on this
motion, which was continued for two nights; but on a division it was
negatived by a majority of three hundred and twenty-two against one
hundred and forty-eight. On the 25th a resolution, authorising a grant
of £30,000 for improving Maynooth college, and for the payment of
the amount requisite for salaries and other expenses, out of the
consolidated fund, was passed by the house; but on the motion for
bringing up the report, opposition to the measure was renewed by Mr.
Law, who moved as an amendment that it be brought up on that day
six months. Another lengthened debate took place, but the motion was
negatived by one hundred and twenty-eight against fifty-two; and several
other amendments, subsequently moved by Mr. Hindley and other members,
were rejected by large majorities. The whole question was reopened
on the motion for the third reading, and a discussion commenced which
continued for three nights; but the third reading was carried by
a majority of three hundred and seventeen against one hundred and
eighty-four. The last attempt to defeat the measure was a motion by Mr.
T. Duncombe, on the question, "That the bill do now pass," proposing a
clause to limit its operation to three years. This was objected to by
Sir Robert Peel, and the proposal was negatived by a large majority,
after which the bill was passed.

The second reading was moved by the Duke of Wellington in the house of
lords, on the second of June. Lord Roden had given notice of intention
to move, as an amendment, for a select committee to inquire into the
character of the education given at Maynooth; and he now rose for the
purpose of thus endeavouring to get rid of the bill. Instead of the
measure being looked upon in Ireland, he said, as a boon, it was looked
upon as one extorted by fear. He quoted a letter from Dr. Higgins, one
of the Roman Catholic bishops, to show that no conciliatory effects
could result from the measure. Nor was it his opinion that it would
improve the education given at Maynooth: rather, it would afford
facilities for recruiting the priesthood from the lower classes of the
people. He maintained that the system of instruction given there had
anti-social and disloyal tendencies, which he illustrated by a reference
to the text-books, and details in the history and conduct of the
institution. The Bishop of London supported the amendment: he could
not consent to any measure which would make the college of Maynooth an
integral part of the constitution. The Earl of St. Germains and Lord
Beaumont vindicated the measure; and the Duke of Manchester and the
Bishop of Cashel opposed it. The debate having been adjourned, was
resumed by the Earls of Hardwick and Carnarvon, who supported the bill.
The Earl of Winchilsea followed, and condemned the bill in vehement
terms; and the Marquis of Normanby defended it as a proper concession to
a nation of which seven-eighths were Roman Catholics. The Archbishop of
Dublin supported the measure. The Bishop of Exeter argued against the
measure that the college was not originally meant to be endowed by the
state; and denied that the improved visitation which the bill professed
to give would be a system of education. The debate having been again
adjourned, was resumed by Earl Spencer and the Bishop of Norwich. On
a division, Lord Roden's amendment was negatived by a majority of one
hundred and fifty-five to fifty-nine; and the house having again divided
on the original resolution, the second reading was carried by a majority
of two hundred and twenty-six against sixty-nine. Subsequently, a
discussion took place on the committal of the bill. On the motion for
the third reading another debate took place; and the Bishop of Llandaff
moved that the bill be read a third time that day six months; but on a
division this amendment was negatived by a majority of one hundred and
eighty-one against fifty. On the question that the bill do pass, the
Earl of Winchilsea moved another amendment to the effect that the
operation of the bill should be limited to a period of three years; but
tins also was negatived, and the bill then passed.


ACADEMICAL EDUCATION IN IRELAND.

Another scheme, emanating from government, for the improvement of the
Irish people, was a plan for the extension of academical education in
Ireland. This measure was developed by the secretary of state for the
home department. On moving for leave to bring in the bill, on the 9th of
May, Sir James Graham said that the object in bringing it forward was to
improve the social condition of Ireland. The difficulty of accomplishing
such an object, he said, would be discerned, when he stated that the
plan which he conceived to be the most essential was the diffusion
of the benefits of education among the higher classes of the people.
Religious differences formed the great obstacle to the adjustment of the
general question of education in Ireland. For a long series of years
the religion of the majority of the Irish people had been treated by the
state as hostile. That notion, however, had been gradually abandoned:
the penal laws had either been removed, or were in the course of
removal, although traces of them were still perceptible, and operating
most noxiously in their interference with the education of the people.
Sir James Graham next proceeded to discuss what was the best mode of
educating the people of Ireland, contending that it consisted in the
absence of all religious tests. It wras on this principle that the
bill he proposed was founded. Government recommended to the house the
establishment of three provincial institutions for education in Ireland,
and founded upon the same principles as the metropolitan colleges of
London and Edinburgh. Cork was proposed as the site of the college for
the south; Galway, or Limerick, for the west; and Deny, or Belfast, for
the north of Ireland. He could not pledge himself for the exact amount
of the expense which would be necessary to carry this proposal into
execution; but he conceived that £30,000 would be wanted for the
erection of each college; and he would therefore mention £100,000 as a
sum amply sufficient for that purpose. He further recommended the sum
of £6000 for each of the colleges, to meet the annual expenses of the
officers of these institutions, and of the prizes to be established for
the encouragement of learning. Sir James Graham then gave a sketch of
the different officers whom he would establish in these institutions. In
each college there was to be a principal and ten or twelve professors;
and at Belfast and Cork there would be a medical school attached to each
college. The professors were to be nominated by the crown; and the crown
was to possess the power of removing them for good cause. There were no
professorships of divinity to be established; but religion was not to
be neglected; on the contrary, every facility would be given for the
voluntary endowment of theological professorships; but the attendance at
these lectures would not be compulsory, for the fundamental principle
of the measure would be the avoidance of all interference, positive or
negative, in all matters affecting the conscience. The right honourable
baronet went on to state that there was already an academical
institution at Belfast for the Presbyterians of the north of Ireland,
which was supported by a parliamentary grant, at the cost of £2100 per
annum; and government proposed to continue this grant. There was another
subject, he said, with which, although a difficult one, he was prepared
to grapple. The bill only founded colleges in Ireland: the question
was:--"Should these three colleges be incorporated into one great
central university, or should parliament invest each of them with the
power of granting degrees in the arts, sciences, and medicine?" He
proposed that the bill should afford her majesty means to establish a
new university in Dublin for this purpose--Trinity College being founded
on Protestant principles, and therefore excluding Roman Catholics or
dissenters from all privileges--or to incorporate into the existing
university these colleges. Lord Palmerston promised ministers the fair
and honest support of the Whigs. The measure was opposed by Sir Robert
Inglis; but leave was given to bring in the bill, and it was read a
first time. On the motion for the second reading, which was moved on the
2nd of June, a debate was commenced, which continued by adjournment for
two nights. The debate was opened by Lord John Manners, who moved that
it be read a second time that day six months: his belief was, that if
it passed in its present shape it would prove a curse, and not a boon to
Ireland. Sir James Graham defended it from this charge. He proceeded to
state some proposed alterations in the bill. The first change proposed
was with regard to the visitorial power of the crown. He proposed to
give the crown the power of appointing visitors, which visitors would
have authority to inquire into any abuse which might arise in these
institutions, and to apply an effective remedy thereto. He also now
thought that there should be attached to each of the colleges a hall or
halls in which religious instructions might be given to the students by
pastors of their own religion; and he was disposed to add a clause to
that effect. The Roman Catholic bishops had presented a memorial praying
that a fair proportion of the professors and office-bearers in the new
colleges should be members of the Roman Catholic church; that
Roman Catholic professors should fill the chairs of history, logic,
metaphysics, moral philosophy, geology, and anatomy; that there should
be a Roman Catholic chaplain in each of the colleges, to superintend the
moral and religious instruction of the Roman Catholic pupils, and that
each of these chaplains should be provided with a suitable salary; and
that all Roman Catholic professors should be appointed to a local board
of trustees. Sir James Graham could not consent to such demands: as a
majority of the students would belong to the Roman Catholic church, it
was probable that a majority of the professors would belong to it also;
but they could not be exclusively provided by the measure. Mr. E. B.
Roche, who had at first hailed the measure as a boon, now declared his
intention of opposing its further progress, because the nomination of
all the professorships was in the crown, and there was no "fixity of
tenure" for any administration which entertained friendly sentiments
toward the Roman Catholic population of Ireland. Sir Robert Inglis
repeated that this bill was "a gigantic scheme of godless education;"
and agreed with Mr. O'Connell in thinking that these new institutions
would be deficient in that species of education which was the only
legitimate one for an immortal being--education in the duties which
every man had to perform, and the principles on which those duties
rested. The second reading was supported by Lord John Russell, who
nevertheless wished to amend it in committee, and Lord Mahon, and
Messrs. Redington, Milnes, Osborne, Wyse, and R. M. O. Ferrol; and
opposed by Messrs. Acland, B. Hope, and Hamilton. Mr. Acland called
attention to the fact that some of the speakers in behalf of the bill
gave an unqualified support to it; and contended that not one of them
had proved that it would give such education as would be useful in any
respect to Ireland. Sir Robert Peel spoke at great length in behalf of
the measure; and announced that, if adopted, and the plan worked
well, government would consider whether the three colleges should be
incorporated into a university, and what power that university should
have in conferring degrees. After a few words from Messrs. M. J.
O'Connell and Shaw in favour of the second reading, though not of entire
approval of the measure, the amendment was negatived by a majority of
three hundred and eleven against forty-six, and the bill was read a
second time. Upon the resolution of the committee of the whole house
for the grant being reported, Mr. O'Connell took occasion to declare
his protest against it; and to thank Sir Robert Inglis for calling it
"a godless system of education." Subsequently, on the committal of the
bill, he again declared his objections to its principle: and Lord John
Russell coincided with him in his statement, that unless the bill was
made acceptable to the Roman Catholics, by providing for the religious
instruction of the pupils, it would be useless. On the first clause,
relating to the grant of £100,000 for building the three colleges and
necessary buildings, Lord John Russell proposed, as an amendment,
to include among the buildings to be thus paid for, halls for the
accommodation of the students. This motion, however, was negatived; as
was also another, moved by Mr. Wyse, on the clause which declared that
the appointment of professors should be vested in the crown, and after
a time limited should revert to parliament. Mr. Wyse desired that
the professors should be chosen, after an investigation into their
qualifications, by a competent board of examiners; but Sir Robert
Peel opposed the amendment, as premature, and likely to operate to the
discouragement of the students.. Several other amendments were proposed
in committee, but they were all rejected; and on the third reading Mr.
Bernai Osborne introduced a collateral discussion upon the revenues
and management of Trinity College, Dublin, by proposing the following
resolution:--"That an humble address be presented to her majesty,
praying that she will be graciously pleased to direct an inquiry to be
made into the amount of the revenue of Trinity College, Dublin, from
rents of college-lands, endowments, and bequests, fees on matriculation,
on taking degrees, and from every other source; also into the manner in
which that income is expended; the number of senior and junior fellows,
of professors, scholars, and all other officers of the college, with
the amount of salary and allowances to each of them, with a view to
ascertain whether the income or funds at present applied solely to
the benefit of Protestants in Trinity College, Dublin, might not be
beneficially extended so as to make Roman Catholics and Protestant
dissenters eligible if otherwise qualified, to all scholarships, and
to all such fellowships, professorships, and other offices in Trinity
College, Dublin, as are not intended for ecclesiastical purposes
immediately connected with ecclesiastical endowment." Mr. Osborne,
in support of this resolution, contended that Trinity College was
not founded with Protestant money, but with the property of the Roman
Catholic Earl of Desmond, confiscated by Elizabeth in 1592; and that
it was not until forty years afterwards, in the time of Strafford,
that Roman Catholics were mentioned, and rendered ineligible for the
professorships. The motion was opposed by Sirs Thomas Freemantle and
R. Inglis, the latter of whom denied that the college was founded with
Roman Catholic money. It was erected on the site of the old monastery
of All-Hallows, which having become vested in the mayor and citizens
of Dublin, by grant from Henry the Eighth, was by them given for the
establishment of this college. The funds for its erection and endowment
were raised by a contribution among the gentry of Ireland, for
which purpose a circular letter was sent to them by the Lord-deputy
Fitzwilliam, the archbishop, and the lords of the council in 1791:
the original foundation of the college might, therefore, he said, be
as purely Protestant as could be imagined. The motion was supported by
Messrs. War-burton and Shiel, the latter of whom contended that Queen
Elizabeth's charter did not contemplate exclusively Protestant objects.
But it was rather on the ground of justice than on such grounds, he
said, that this subject ought to be discussed. He remarked:--"There
are seventy scholarships; the scholars have lodging and commons for a
nominal sum, with £10 a-year and £40 a-year in the last three years: the
scholarships being exclusively Protestant. So long," he continued, "as
you keep up Trinity College in its supremacy you will make your measure
of academical education, for all political purposes, an entire failure.
Your provincial academies will be marked with all the characteristics of
mediocrity, which will only render the elevation of Trinity College more
conspicuous by the inferiority with which it will be surrounded. How
stunted and dwarfed the groves of our new academies when compared with
the rich luxuriance of the gardens of Trinity! I had a thousand times
rather you had applied your £18,000 a-year to the establishment of new
fellowships and new professorships in the metropolitan and national
institutions; because if you had done so, Englishmen would have got a
value--a value in peace, a value in contentment, a value in pacificatory
results--for their money. Now your measure, for political purposes--I
say, for political purposes, though I won't deny that the advantages
of education will be distributed to a certain extent--but your measure,
though for political purposes it may partially succeed, yet as a message
of peace it will be a failure." Sir Robert Peel contended that he and
his colleagues had exerted themselves to make equality in Ireland, at
the expense of giving umbrage to the majority of the people in this
country. He appealed to the enlarged grant to Maynooth, and to the way
in which the charitable bequests act had been carried out, as showing
the conciliatory disposition of the government. Yet, after all their
exertions for peace they were doomed to be disappointed. He regretted
Mr. Shiel's speech on account of the use that would be made of it in
this country. It would be said--"See how unavailing all attempts are to
conciliate the Roman Catholics of Ireland. Regardless of the warnings,
the feelings, and fears of their friends, they hoped by proposing
certain measures, that they would make an impression on the Irish mind;
but, instead of this, the leading Roman Catholic member in the house of
commons gets up and tells them that, unless they went ten times as far
as they had yet gone, they would have an insurrection in Ireland."
This he believed, however, was not the feeling of the Irish people; he
believed that government had made an impression on the feelings of
the Irish people. After a few words from Lord John Russell, the house
divided on Mr. Osborne's amendment, which was negatived by a majority
of one hundred and sixty-eight against ninety-one, and the bill was then
read a third time and passed.

The second reading of the Irish education bill was moved in the house
of lords by Lord Stanley on the 21st of July. The Earl of Shrewsbury
opposed the measure. Government he said, had been overawed by the
fanatic feeling of the English people; and he urged ministers to
withdraw the bill for a season, and reintroduce it in a shape better
suited to the wants and wishes of Ireland. The bill was further opposed
by the Earl of Carnarvon, who protested against the divorce of religion
from education, and expressed his fears that such a precedent might be
applied to Oxford and Cambridge. The bill was defended by the Duke of
Newcastle, the Marquis of Lansdowne, the Bishop of Norwich, and Lords
Brougham, Beaumont, and Clifford. The second reading was affirmed
without a division; and subsequently the bill passed through committee,
and was read a third time without any fixed opposition.


COLONIAL POLICY.

In the early part of this session intelligence had arrived which
announced a disastrous collision in New Zealand between the natives and
the settlers at the Bay of Islands, and which terminated in defeat
and serious loss on the part of the latter. This intelligence produced
considerable sensation in the public mind, more especially among those
connected with the colonists in those islands. The New Zealand Company
loudly accused the colonial office, and the administration of the
governor, Captain Fitzroy; while other parties contended that the evil
which had arisen had been in a great measure induced by the company
itself. The event became the subject of several discussions in
parliament. The first of these discussions took place on the 11th of
March, when Mr. Somes moved for all copies of correspondence between the
colonial office and the governor of New Zealand, respecting the issue
of debentures and the rendering them a legal tender in that colony,
the taxes proposed in the legislative council, the outrages recently
committed by the natives in the Bay of Islands, and a proclamation
issued by the governor of New Zealand, allowing the sale of land by the
natives at a less price than that fixed by the act of the 5th and 6th
Victoria. This motion was seconded by Mr. Aglionby, who asked whether
government was not aware that in that colony inconvertible paper
had been made by the governor a legal tender for sums as low as two
shillings? whether the governor had previously received authority by
warrant from the colonial department to issue such debentures to the
amount of £15,000? whether it was true that in a colony that was to
flourish by its agriculture a tax of 10s. had been levied on every sheep
imported, and a similar tax on every dog imported to herd them? what
the house thought of a governor who placed a tax of £1 on every house in
which more than three rooms were inhabited? and whether the governor had
vindicated the character of this country by protecting the whites from
the outrages of the natives? Nine of our countrymen, he continued, had
been tomahawked after they had given up their arms: had the governor
made inquiry into the circumstances of this massacre? or had he gone, as
was reported, to the murderous tribes, and declared himself satisfied?
He also wanted to know in what manner the honour of the British flag
had been vindicated, after it had been cut down at the custom-house;
and made several inquiries respecting the sale of lands in New Zealand,
observing that when he had obtained an answer to his questions, he
should bring forward a distinct motion on the subject, and should
call for further information. Mr. Hope, the under-secretary, protested
against the course pursued by Mr. Aglionby, demanding why he did not
boldly come forward, make his charge against government, and endeavour
to substantiate it. He proceeded, however, to answer the questions
put by Mr. Aglionby. The government, he said, had disapproved of the
debentures issued by the local governor, ami they had been withdrawn.
Respecting the taxes imposed in New Zealand he knew nothing, as
government had been an unusually long time without intelligence from
that colony. With respect to the outrages at the Bay of Islands, troops
had been sent for their repression; and the governor, he thought had
sufficiently vindicated the honour of the British flag. On the other
subjects of interrogation he had no information to communicate. Other
members took part in the discussion; and finally the motion was agreed
to.

A more lengthened discussion on the condition of this colony took
place on the 17th of June, on which occasion Mr. Charles Buller brought
forward a series of resolutions relating to the policy pursued towards
New Zealand. In his speech he contended that the colonization of New
Zealand, after it had been successfully commenced by the New Zealand
Company, had been marred by the interference of her majesty's
government. He proceeded to show the superiority of the scheme of
colonization adopted by the company with that pursued by the colonial
office. After pointing out the great importance of New Zealand in
a national and political point of view, and the fair field which it
afforded for the development of the capital and labour of England, he
showed that at the time when it was first colonized, strong reasons
existed for colonizing it regularly, lest it should be colonized
irregularly. The whole of the native population did not exceed 100,000
souls, and they were principally concentrated in the northern parts of
the island. Was that a circumstance which ought to prevent any other
country from colonizing the southern parts of it, which were almost
totally unoccupied, or the northern parts, which were almost all left
uncultivated? It was wicked to deny the right of civilized man to
cultivate the wilderness; but he was bound to treat the savage with
kindness, and to communicate to him the advantages of civilization. The
New Zealand Company had treated the savage with kindness, making him
ample compensation for the land purchased of him, by setting a part
of it to his service after it had been brought into cultivation. The
colonial office, however, conceived that its duty was discharged towards
the savage when it had obtained for him a large price for his land, and
had not taken any measure to apply it to his future amelioration. Mr.
Buller next entered into a minute history of the proceedings of the
colonial authorities in New Zealand, from the time of the conclusion of
the treaty of Waitangi, down to the present period; and vindicated the
conduct of the New Zealand Company, showing that their settlements had
been founded on a scale of liberality and munificence hitherto unknown
in the history of English colonization. Their principal object had been
merely to protect themselves from loss, whilst engaged in diffusing the
arts and industry along with the laws and language of England; yet Lord
Stanley had adopted measures which had marred all their prospects of
future success. Mr. Buller proceeded to enter into a discussion of
the land question between Lord Stanley and the New Zealand Company. He
contended that the company had a right to expect to be put in possession
by government of the number of acres awarded to them; yet, after
spending £800,000 of its own, and £300,000 more on credit, obtained from
the public, it had not obtained the grant of a single acre. Its capital
was exhausted; its proceedings were suspended; and, what was worse, the
unhappy emigrants had been debarred from all access as owners to the
land which they had purchased with hard cash in England. The crops
which they had raised were destroyed by fire, and their lives had been
menaced; and when they applied for redress to the colonial office, that
aid had been coldly refused. They now apprehended a general massacre;
and yet Captain Fitzroy prohibited them from arming themselves in
self-defence. His policy had inspired the New Zealanders with an
overweening confidence, and our countrymen with fierce resentment; and
the consequence would be that the first would perish under the attacks
of the last, as they would be no more in the hands of Englishmen than
mere children in the hands of full-grown men. In conclusion, Mr.
Buller expressed his conviction that Lord Stanley had put down the most
promising experiment of colonization that had ever been attempted by
England; and moved that the house resolve itself into a committee of the
whole house to consider the resolutions. The motion was seconded by Mr.
Milnes, who contended that a case had been made out for the interference
of the house. Mr. Hope defended the character of Lord Stanley at great
length, denying that his lordship was influenced by any hostility either
to colonization or to the New Zealand Company. He was not prepared, he
said, to justify all the acts of Captain Fitzroy; but he was convinced
that he did himself frequent injustice by the scanty reports he sent
home. In reply to the allegation that the colonial office was chargeable
with all the disasters of the colony, he insisted that they were mainly
attributable to the hasty proceedings of the New Zealand Company, in
taking possession of that island without authority from the crown.
Mr. Hope next proceeded to give an account of the state of the colony
according to the latest advices received from thence; endeavouring to
show that the settlers and the natives generally were on good terms,
and that there was no fear of a collision between them. He concluded by
entering into a consideration of the resolutions, and by declaring that
government would not consent to them. The debate was then adjourned, and
on the following day it was resumed by Captain Rous, who brought some
grave charges against the New Zealand Company. He did so, he said,
for the purpose of giving the directors of that company, who had been
described as philanthropic gentlemen, an opportunity of replying to
those charges. Mr. Aglionby, in reply, protested against them; but
declined to enter into a refutation of them on the present occasion: the
details of them all had been inquired into in the previous session by
the select committee, and on every one of them a verdict of acquittal
had been given by that committee. Other members who took part in the
debate for the motion were Lords Howick and John Russell, and Messrs.
Ellice, Hawes, Mangles, Colquhoun, and Shiel; against it, Sirs Robert
Peel, James Graham, Robert Inglis, and Howard Douglas and Mr. Cardwell.
After a brief reply from Mr. Buller, the house divided on the motion,
which was negatived by a majority of two hundred and twenty-three
against one hundred and seventeen.

Towards the end of the session the New Zealand question again became
the subject of a lengthened investigation. Intelligence continued to be
received from New Zealand of the hostile disposition and violent
conduct of the natives, and the precarious tenure on which the lives and
properties of the settlers depended. Under these circumstances, on
the 21st of July, a petition was presented by the New Zealand Company,
praying the house "not to separate without taking measures calculated
to allay the apprehensions prevalent among the colonists of New Zealand,
and to revive confidence in the company, by which its usefulness would
be restored, the friendly communication between the colonists and the
aboriginal races renewed, and the prosperity of New Zealand secured."
On the same day Mr. C. Buller proposed a resolution to the effect, that
"the house regarded with regret and apprehension the state of affairs in
New Zealand, and that those feelings were greatly aggravated by the want
of any sufficient evidence of a change in the policy which had led to
such disastrous results." A long debate ensued, which was continued by
adjournment; but on a division the motion was negatived by one hundred
and fifty-five against eighty-nine. A few nights afterwards, on the vote
being proposed, in a committee of supply of £22,565 for New-Zealand,
Mr. J. A. Smith stated that negociations had been resumed between the
Colonial office and the New Zealand Company, and that the result only
waited the final approval of Lord Stanley, who was absent from town. He
asked, if the hope of a favourable issue were not realized, whether Sir
Robert Peel would afford another opportunity, before the close of the
session, for some remarks on the present state of New Zealand, Sir
Robert Peel promised to do so; but expressed a strong desire to
co-operate in the colonization of New Zealand, and to bring the
differences with the company to a conclusion. It would seem that
government were now, indeed, convinced that the policy of the government
of New Zealand was unfavourable to the prospects of the colony; for
about this time Captain Fitzroy was recalled. Government also appears
to have been convinced that some better policy must be adopted; for Mr.
Hope, on the occasion of the last debate on New Zealand, stated, that
a gentleman unconnected with the subject had been called in to give
his advice, and he was now engaged in arranging the matter for his full
consideration.


QUESTION OF THE OREGON TERRITORY.

The great question of this year between Great Britain and the United
States was the boundary-line running through the Oregon territory. The
proposals of the British government to Congress were not acceded to; and
up to this period, negociation, in which the British cabinet had shown
themselves desirous of terminating the dispute amicably, had failed. The
American authorities asserted a valid claim to all the territory, and
were unwilling to allow any portion of it to be given up to England. In
the present year, the dispute assumed more the aspect of war than it
had hitherto done; for Mr. Polk had been chosen president, and he was
decidedly hostile to the claims of the British to this or any portion of
this territory. His hostility was clearly unfolded to the world by his
presidential message to congress.

The inaugural address of President Polk being of such a belligerent
nature, naturally created strong apprehensions in the public mind of
England of an intended encroachment upon our rights in the matter of the
Oregon territory. The subject was introduced in the house of lords,
by Lord Clarendon, on the 4th of April, with a view to elicit from
government some information as to our relations with the United States
upon this question, and the course it was intended to pursue, in case
congress, acting upon the president's express opinion, should proceed to
take possession of the country. His lordship expressed an anxious hope,
that, while whatever could be justly claimed by the United States should
be readily conceded, government would not shrink from vindicating, if
necessary, the nation's honour, and upholding her interests. In reply,
Lord Aberdeen said that our position was precisely the same as it
had been for the last eighteen years, under the treaty of 1827. The
provisions of that treaty had been prolonged for an indefinite period,
subject to the right of either party to terminate it by giving a year's
notice. This could not be done without a vote of congress, and that body
would not assemble until December; so that sufficient time was still
left to bring the matters in dispute to a satisfactory conclusion.

The same subject was brought before the commons on the same day by Lord
John Russell.

The Oregon question was introduced into the discussions of the American
Senate on the 15th of December, by General Cass, who made a violent
speech in favour of President Polk's views of the subject. Referring to
the above debate in Parliament, and particularly to the speeches of Lord
John Russell and Sir Robert Peel, he dwelt strongly upon the rapacities
of England; and congratulated his country that it had secured Texas in
spite of her attempts to wrest it from America. The object of the speech
of General Cass was clearly to involve the United States in a war with
Great Britain; but there were men in the American senate who, conscious
of the weakness of their cause, stood in the breach. This year closed,
however, before the dispute was terminated: it was still left open to
arbitration.


MISCELLANEOUS MEASURES OF THE SESSION.

Early in the present session Lord-chancellor Lyndhurst introduced a bill
into the upper house, having for its object the relief of persons,
of the Jewish persuasion from certain tests which had previously been
required from them upon their election to municipal offices. The bill
was read a second time in the house of lords on the 10th of March,
without a division; and having passed through that house, it came down
to the commons, where the second reading was moved by Sir Robert Peel
on the 17th of July. It was opposed by Sir Robert Inglis, who regretted
that Sir R. Peel had lent the sanction of his name to it. And moved
that it be read that day three months. On a division the amendment was
negatived by a majority of ninety-one against eleven. The second reading
was then carried, and the bill subsequently became law.

During this session a bill was introduced by the Lord-advocate for the
amendment of the poor-laws in Scotland. The chief objects of this bill
were thus described by Sir James Graham on the debate on the second
reading:--"Provisions had been made for local inspection; for a
responsible supervision by a board sitting in the capital; for perfect
publicity; for an appeal to the sheriff of the county on the part of the
poor man to whom relief was refused; for empowering the sheriff to
order relief; and, if the quantum were too small, for a power of appeal,
without expense, to the central board, which had complete power, without
limitation, to deal with the quantum of relief; and on the other hand,
if the quantum was too great, the parish might appeal to the court
of session. Provision had also been made for subscription to lunatic
asylums; for the education of pauper children; for medical attendants;
and for building poor-houses in large cities." This bill encountered
much opposition in both houses; but it finally passed into law, with
very trifling alteration made in the house of lords.

Among the minor fruits of this session were two bills introduced by Lord
Ashley; one for the regulation of juvenile labour in calico-print works,
and the other to provide for the better care of lunatics. The former
of these bills was a supplement to Lord Ashley's exertions in former
sessions, for the protection of persons employed in factories.
In introducing the latter, Lord Ashley startled the house by some
distressing statements of the abuses by which the law had been perverted
in the treatment of pauper lunatics.

Mr. Duncombe opposed it; but the feeling of the house was strongly in
its favour, and it was adopted.

Two bills were this year brought in by Sir Robert Peel, for the
regulation of banking in Scotland and Ireland, based on similar
principles to that by which he had remodelled the English banking system
in the preceding year. In explaining these measures he first touched
upon a peculiarity in Irish banking as distinct from Scottish--the
existence of the national bank of Ireland. It enjoyed the exclusive
privilege of issuing and paying notes, except of large amounts and
at longdates, within a circle of sixty-four English miles radius. Its
capital was £6,729,000.; and there was a debt due by government of
£2,630,000, on which three and a half per cent, interest was paid. There
were eight other banks of issue in Ireland--joint-stock banks: those
banks had four thousand shareholders, and many thousand more customers;
to many of whom it was a serious inconvenience that they could not
transact business through the national bank. He proposed, with the
willing concurrence of its directors, to withdraw all the exclusive
privileges of the national bank, except that he would continue to it the
government business, and the present rate of interest on the government
debt, as payment for conducting the official business. He would also
abolish the oaths in that establishment, distinguishing Roman Catholic
office-bearers from Protestants. The bank would also make a weekly
return, like that of the Bank of England. In Scotland, as in Ireland,
there were no private banks of issue: all were joint-stock banks. There
were nineteen banks, to which number they were restricted by the acts
of last session. Three had charters; two were incorporated under act of
parliament; the rest were not incorporated. It would be better to
give them all charters of incorporation; but still he would make that
permissive. He would not abolish the power of issuing notes under five
pounds in amount either in Scotland or Ireland--he would not run the
risk of encountering the opposition which such a proposal would excite;
though he did not know that the use of tire small notes could be
justified by argument. He would not establish any fixed proportion
between the notes under £5, or above; but he would, as in the case of
the English banks, restrict the future issues of the banks to the amount
of the average issues for a ces tain time past; namely, the period
of the 27th of April, 1844, thirteen lunar months. In Ireland it was
necessary to take an extended time, because there had been a greater
increase on the issues within the last three or four months. He would
solve the doubt in Scotland as to the question of law, whether Bank of
England notes were a legal tender or not, by making them _not_ a legal
tender. There was in this country a security against derangement of the
currency, in the general diffusion of gold coin, probably not less than
£30,000,000 or £35,000,000, through every part, a security which did not
exist in Ireland or Scotland: he would therefore oblige any excess of
the issues of the banks, over the amounts now fixed, to be based not on
bullion or Bank of England notes, but on bullion alone; gold or silver
bullion; making silver under two pounds a legal tender. It would be
advantageous to encourage an increase of silver, especially in Ireland.
The banks would, in future, be obliged to make weekly returns of the
notes in circulation: but in Scotland, returns of the circulation each
day would be fallacious, on account of exchanges with other banks; and
therefore he would continue the present system of making a return of the
last day in each week; the average would be struck on the returns for
four weeks, and the circulation, or any excess, calculated on that
average. Several statistical particulars, such as the amount of gold
in each bank, or distinction between the £5 and the lower notes, the
description of issues, &c, would be required; but the information
thus exacted by government would be in confidence: the monthly returns
published by the stamp-office resembling those now made in England. The
average circulation of the Scotch banks in the thirteen months since the
27th of April was £3,041,000; but there was in the November of each year
an excess in the issues of about £500,000, which would of course have
to be based on bullion. The average circulation in Ireland would
in future be, of the national bank, £3,706,000; of the other banks,
£2,565,000; in all. £6,271,000. As there was in Scotland no national
bank to supply any deficiency caused in the circulation by the failure
of any joint-stock bank, he would give permission for any bank to
dispose of its circulation to another bank; the aggregate of the two
amounts to be taken as the joint circulation. To avoid any inconvenience
or precipitancy, the plan would not come into operation until the 1st of
January, 1846. Sir Robert Peel concluded by expressing his belief that
this plan would add to the stability of the circulation in the United
Kingdom, and would be an equitable way of making Ireland and Scotland
bear their share of the burden of providing a guarantee against
commercial panic. These bills passed through both houses without much
discussion, and became law.

During this session a measure was passed by government for facilitating
the enclosure of commons in England and Wales, by appointing a board
of commissioners with extensive powers, and removing the necessity of
obtaining private acts of parliament for the enclosing of lands.

The business of the session was closed by Lord John Russell's taking
the opportunity for a formal motion for papers, to enter into a critical
review of the results of the session, and the general policy of the
administration.


PROROGATION OF PARLIAMENT.

Parliament was prorogued by the queen in person on the 9th of August.
After the speaker had addressed her majesty on the measures of the
session, and some bills had received the royal assent, her majesty read
the royal speech.


THE AFFAIRS OF INDIA.

In the early part of this year the important subject of railroads in
India was taken into serious consideration. Various companies were
formed in England, for the purpose, if possible, of carrying out schemes
of railway communication in that country. In order that full preliminary
information might be obtained before any project was sanctioned, the
court of directors sent a despatch to the governor-general, directing
him to take the subject into his best consideration, as one in which the
interests of India were deeply concerned.

Until the close of the year, peace pervaded the whole of India, and Sir
Henry Hardinge was employed in promoting the interests of the natives,
by giving his attention to the important question of education. While
thus humanely employed, the state of our north-western frontier summoned
him to engage in warlike preparations. The Anglo-Indian dominion on the
left bank of the Sutlej was suddenly invaded by a Sikh army. What part
the government at Lahore took in this invasion is uncertain. It is
alleged on the part of the Ranee, the queen-mother, and the other
advisers of the youthful monarch, Dhuleep Singh, and the Durbar at
Lahore was at the mercy of the army; and that the restless and mutinous
Sikh soldiers, in defiance of government, determined to cross the
Sutlej, in hopes of finding the British unprepared, and carrying off an
immense quantity of booty. This sounds like fiction; and it would rathe
appear that the Lahore government, standing in awe of the Sikh army, was
glad of any pretext for finding it employment in British India, in order
to avoid violence within the Punjaub territory. Be this as it may, the
Sikhs invaded our borders; and we had no alternative but to treat
the invasion as a formal declaration of war on the part of the Lahore
government, and to take measures for proceeding against the Punjaub
government as a hostile state. On the 2nd of December Sir Henry Hardinge
arrived at Umballah; on the 6th he removed from Umballah towards
Loodianah; and on the 12th his whole force marched towards the Sutlej,
and took up a position at Busseeau, an important point, where the roads
leading from Umballah and Kurnaul meet. It was not till the 13th that
the Sikh army crossed the Sutlej, and on that day Sir Henry Hardinge
issued the following proclamation:--"The British government has ever
been on terms of friendship with that of the Punjaub. In the year 1809 a
treaty of amity and concord was concluded between the British government
and the late Maharaja Runjeet Singh, the conditions of which have
always been faithfully observed by the British government, and were
scrupulously fulfilled by the late Maharaja. The same friendly relations
have been maintained with the successors of Maharaja Runjeet Singh, by
the British government, up to the present time. Since the death of
the late Maharaja Shere Singh, the disorganized state of the Lahore
government has made it incumbent on the governor-general in council to
adopt precautionary measures for the protection of the British frontier;
the nature of these measures, and the cause of their adoption were
at the time fully explained to the Lahore Durbar. Notwithstanding the
disorganized state of the Lahore government, during the last two years,
and many most unfriendly proceedings on the part of the Durbar, the
governor-general in council has continued to evince his desire to
maintain the relations of amity and concord which had so long existed
between the two states, for the mutual interests and happiness of
both. He has shown on every occasion the utmost forbearance, from
consideration to the helpless state of the infant Maharaja Dhuleep
Singh, whom the British government had recognised as the successor to
the late Maharaja Shere Singh. The governor-general in council sincerely
desired to see a strong Sikh government re-established in the Punjaub,
able to control its army and protect its subjects. He had not, up to
the present moment, abandoned the hope of seeing that important object
effected by the patriotic efforts of the Sikhs and people of that
country. The Sikh army recently marched from Lahore towards thu British
frontier, as it was alleged, by the orders of the Durbar, for the
purpose of invading the British territory. The governor-general's agent,
by direction of the governor-general, demanded an explanation of this
movement; and no reply being returned within a reasonable time, the
demand was repeated. The governor-general, unwilling to believe in the
hostile intentions of the Sikh government, to which no provocation
had been given, refrained from taking any measures which might have
a tendency to embarrass the government of the Maharaja, or to induce
collision between the two states. When no reply was given to the
repeated demand for explanation, and while active military operations
were continued at Lahore, the governor-general considered it necessary
to order the advance of troops towards the frontier, to re-enforce the
frontier posts. The Sikh army has now, without a shadow of provocation,
invaded the British territories. Tire governor-general must, therefore,
take measures for effectually protecting the British provinces; for
vindicating the authority of the British government; and for punishing
the violaters of treaties and the disturbers of public peace. The
governor-general hereby declares the possessions of Maharaja Dhuleep
Singh, on the left, or British bank of the Sutlej, confiscated and
annexed to the British territories. The governor-general will respect
the existing rights of all jagheerdars, zemindars, and tenants in the
said possessions, who, by the course they now pursue, evince their
fidelity to the British government. The governor-general hereby
calls upon all the chiefs and sirdars in the protected territories to
co-operate cordially with the British government, for the punishment
of the common enemy, and for the maintenance of order in these states.
Those of the chiefs which show alacrity and fidelity in the discharge
of this duty, which they owe to the protecting power, will find their
interests promoted thereby; and those who take a contrary course will
be treated as enemies to the British government, and will be punished
accordingly. The inhabitants of all the territories on the left bank of
the Sutlej are hereby directed to abide peaceably in their respective
villages, where they will receive efficient protection by the British
government. All parties of men found in armed bands, who can give no
satisfactory account of their proceedings, will be treated as disturbers
of the public peace. All subjects of the British government, and those
who possess estates on both sides of the river Sutlej, who by their
faithful adherence to the British government, may be liable to sustain
loss, shall be indemnified and secured in all their just rights and
privileges. On the other hand, all subjects of the British government,
who shall continue in the service of the Lahore state, and who disobey
this proclamation, by not immediately returning to their allegiance,
will be liable to have their property on this side of the Sutlej
confiscated, and declared to be aliens and enemies of the British
government." On crossing the Sutlej, the Sikh army, under the command
of Sirdar Tej Sing, invested Ferozepore on one side, and took up an
intrenched position at the village of Ferozeshah, about ten miles
in advance of Ferozepore, and nearly the same distance from Moodkee.
Ferozepore was garrisoned with about 5000 troops, with twenty-one guns,
under the command of Major-general Sir John Littler. The great object
of the governor-general was to effect a junction between the separated
portions of the Anglo-Indian army before an attack could be made
upon them by the Sikhs. For this purpose orders were issued by the
governor-general, while on his route, to the force at Umballah, with
Sir Hugh Gough at their head, to move up towards Ferozepore by rapid
marches. On the 18th those troops reached the village of Moodkee, and
on that day a battle was fought, which will be best told in Sir Hugh
Gough's own words. In his dispatch he writes:--"Soon after mid-day, the
division under Major-general Sir Harry Smith, a brigade of that under
Major-general Sir J. M'Caskill, and another of that under Major-general
Gilbert, with five troops of horse-artillery, and two light
field-batteries, under Lieutenant-colonel Brooke, of the
horse-artillery, and the cavalry division, consisting of her majesty's
3rd light-dragoons, the body-guard, 4th and 5th light-cavalry, and 9th
irregular cavalry, took up their encamping ground in front of Moodkee.
The troops were in a state of great exhaustion, principally from the
want of water, which was not procurable on the road, when, about three
p. m., information was received that the Sikh army was advancing;
and the troops had scarcely time to get under arms and move to their
positions, when the fact was ascertained. I immediately pushed forward
the horse-artillery and cavalry, directing the infantry, accompanied by
the field-batteries, to move forward in support. We had not proceeded
beyond two miles, when we found the enemy in position. They were said
to consist of from 15,000 to 20,000 infantry, about the same force of
cavalry, and forty guns. They had evidently either just taken up this
position, or were advancing in order of battle against us. To resist
their attack, and to cover the formation of the infantry, I advanced
the cavalry, under Brigadiers White, Gough, and Martier, rapidly to
the front, in columns of squadrons, and occupied the plain. They were
speedily followed by the five troops of horse-artillery, under Brigadier
Brooke, who took up a forward position, having the valley then on his
flanks. The country is a dead flat, covered, at short intervals, with
a low, but in some places, a thick low jungle, and dotted with sandy
hillocks. The enemy screened their infantry and artillery behind this
jungle, and such undulations as the ground afforded; and whilst our
twelve battalions formed from echellon of brigade into line, opened a
very severe cannonade upon our advancing troops, which was vigorously
replied to by the battery of horse artillery under Brigadier Brooke,
which was soon joined by the two light field-batteries. The rapid and
well-directed fire of our artillery appeared soon to paralyse that of
the enemy. And as it was necessary to complete our infantry dispositions
without advancing the artillery too near the jungle, I directed the
cavalry, under Brigadiers White and Gough, to make a flank movement on
the enemy's left, with a view of threatening and turning that flank, if
possible. With praiseworthy gallantry, the 3rd light-dragoons, with
the 2nd brigade of cavalry, consisting of the body-guard and 5th
light-cavalry, with a portion of the 4th lancers, turned the left of the
Sikh army, and, sweeping along the whole rear of its infantry and
guns, silenced for a time the latter, and put their numerous cavalry
to flight. Whilst this movement was taking place on the enemy's left,
I directed the remainder of the 4th lancers, the 9th irregular cavalry,
under Brigadier Martier, with a light field-battery, to threaten their
right. This manouvre was also successful. Had not the infantry and guns
of the enemy been screened by the jungle, these brilliant charges would
have been productive of greater effect. When the infantry advanced to
the attack, Brigadier Brooke rapidly pushed on his horse-artillery close
to the jungle, and the cannonade was resumed on both sides. The infantry
under Major-generals Sir Harry Smith, Gilbert, and Sir John M'Caskill,
attacked in echellon of lines the enemy's infantry, almost invisible
amongst wood and the approaching darkness of the night. The position
of the enemy was such as might have been expected from troops who had
everything at stake, and who had long vaunted of being irresistible.
Their ample and extended line, from the great superiority of numbers,
far outflanked ours; but this was counteracted by the flank movements of
our cavalry. The attack of the infantry now commenced, and the roll of
fire from this powerful arm soon convinced the Sikh army that they had
met with a foe they little expected; and their whole force was driven
from position after position, with great slaughter, and the loss of
seventeen pieces of artillery, some of them of heavy calibre; our
infantry using that never-failing weapon, the bayonet, whenever the
enemy stood. Night only saved them from worse disaster; for this stout
conflict was maintained during an hour and a half ot dim starlight,
amidst a cloud of dust from the sandy plain, which yet more obscured
every object." This victory, however, was dearly purchased: amongst
those who fell was Sir Robert Sale, the hero of Jellalabad, and Sir
John M'Caskill. After remaining encamped for two days, Sir Hugh Gough
moved with his whole force towards Ferozeshah, where the Sikh army was
posted in a strongly entrenched camp, defended by a formidable park of
artillery. Here a junction was formed between the troops under Sir John
Littler and those of Sir Hugh Gough. About four o'clock on the afternoon
of the 21st, the united forces advanced to attack the entrenched camp of
the Sikhs. At this time Sir Henry Hardinge himself had joined Sir Hugh
Gough; and he took an active part in the events of the day, as second
in command. The camp of the enemy was in the form of a parallelogram, of
about a mile in length, and half a mile in breadth, including within its
area the strong village of Ferozeshah: the shorter sides looking towards
the Sutlej and Moodkee, and the longer towards Ferozepore and the open
country. The British troops moved against the last-named place, and
their operations were thus detailed by Sir Hugh Gough:--"The divisions
of Major-general Sir John Littler, Brigadier Wallace, and Major-general
Gilbert, deployed into line, having in the centre our whole force
of artillery, with the exception of one on either flank, and one in
support, to be moved as occasion required. Major-general Sir Harry
Smith's division and our small cavalry force moved in second line,
having a brigade in reserve to cover each wing. I committed the charge
of the left wing to Lieutenant-general Sir Henry Hardinge, while I
personally conducted the right. A very heavy cannonade was opened by
the enemy, who had dispersed over their position upwards of one hundred
guns, more than forty of which were of battering calibre: these kept
up a heavy and well directed fire, which the practice of our far less
numerous artillery, of much lighter metal, checked in some degree, but
could not silence: finally, in the face of a storm of shot and shell,
our infantry advanced, and carried these formidable entrenchments: they
threw themselves upon their guns, and with matchless gallantry wrested
them from the enemy; but when the batteries were partially within our
grasp, our soldiery had to face such a fire of musketry from the Sikh
infantry, arrayed behind their guns, that, in spite of the most heroic
efforts, a portion only of the entrenchment could be carried. Night fell
while the conflict was raging. Although I now brought up Major-general
Sir Harry Smith's division, and he captured and long retained another
part of the position, and her majesty's 3rd light-dragoons charged, and
took some of the most formidable batteries, yet the enemy remained in
possession of a considerable portion of the great quadrangle, whilst
our troops, mingled with theirs, kept possession of the remainder, and
finally bivouacked upon it, exhausted by their gallant efforts, greatly
reduced in numbers, and suffering extremely from thirst, yet animated by
an indomitable spirit. In this state of things the long night wore away.
Near the middle of it, one of their heavy guns was advanced, and
played with deadly effect upon our troops. Lieutenant-general Sir
Henry Hardinge immediately formed her majesty's 80th foot, and the 1st
European light-infantry. They were led to the attack by their commanding
officers, and animated in their exertions by Lieutenant-colonel Wood,
who was wounded in the outset. The 80th captured the gun; and the enemy,
dismayed by this countercheck, did not venture to press on further.
During the whole night, however, they continued to harass our troops by
fire of artillery, wherever moonlight discovered our position. But with
daylight of the 22nd came retribution. Our infantry formed in line,
supported on both flanks by horse-artillery, whilst a fire was opened
from our centre, by such of our heavy guns as remained effective, aided
by a flight of rockets. A masked battery played with great effect upon
this point, dismounting our pieces, and blowing up our tumbrils. At this
movement Lieutenant-general Sir Henry Hardinge placed himself at the
head of the left, whilst I rode at the head of the right wing. Our line
advanced, and, unchecked by the enemy's fire, drove them rapidly out of
the village of Ferozeshah and their encampment; then, changing front to
its left, on its centre, our force continued to sweep the camp, bearing
down all opposition, and dislodged the enemy from their whole position.
The line then halted, as if on a clay of manoeuvre, receiving its two
leaders, as they rode along its front, with a gratifying cheer, and
displaying the captured standards of the Khalsa army. We had taken
seventy-three pieces of cannon, and were masters of the whole field. The
force assumed a position on the ground which it had won; but even here
its labours were not to cease. In the course of two hours, Sirdar Tej
Sing, who had commanded in the last great battle, brought up from the
vicinity of Ferozepore fresh battalions and a large field of artillery,
supported by 30,000 Ghorepurras, hitherto encamped near the river. He
drove in our cavalry parties, and made strenuous efforts to regain the
position at Ferozeshah. This attempt was defeated; but its failure had
scarcely become manifest, when the sirdar renewed the contest with more
troops, and a large artillery. He commenced by a combination against
our left flank; and when this was frustrated, made such a demonstration
against the captured village, as compelled us to change our whole front
to the right. His guns during this manouvre maintained an incessant
fire; whilst, our artillery ammunition being completely expended in these
protracted combats, we were unable to answer him with a single shot.
I now directed our almost exhausted cavalry to threaten both flanks at
once, preparing the infantry to advance in support, which apparently
caused him suddenly to cease his fire, and to abandon the field." This
victory, by which the enemy was driven to the banks of the Sutlej,
was not achieved without heavy loss; and among the slain were Major
Broadfoot, political agent in the north-western provinces, Colonels
Wallace and Taylor, and Major Fitzroy Somerset, military secretary
to the governor-general. The Sikh army retreated on the fords of the
Sutlej, and, disheartened by the capture of its artillery, and the loss
it had sustained in killed and wounded, crossed over to the other side
of the river. Early in the next year the victorious British followed
them, and pressed onwards to Lahore. Terms of peace were agreed on; and
one of the stipulations between the two states was the disbandment of
the Sikh force. The importance of these victories was acknowledged by
government, and the people of England at large; who joined in admiration
of the conduct of the governor-general, the commanders, and the troops,
by whom the victory was achieved.

In the vicinity of Scinde Sir Charles Napier was employed in military
operations against the mountain desert tribes on the right bank of the
Indus, north of Shikarpoor.

This was a hazardous service, requiring, as Sir Henry Hardinge remarked,
"on the part of the general, the utmost prudence, skill, and foresight;
and on the part of the troops, the greatest fortitude in enduring
the fatigues and privations to which they were exposed." In these
operations, however, Sir Charles Napier was completely successful. On
the 9th of March he wrote to the governor-general an account of his
victory in these terms:--"I have to report to you the conclusion of the
war against the mountain and desert tribes, who, driven into their last
refuge, the stronghold at Truckee, have this day laid down their arms:
the fort of Deyrah is destroyed; and Islam Boogtie, the only chief not a
prisoner, is said to be a lonely fugitive in the Ketrau country, far in
the north, and ruled by a chief whose daughter Islam married. To detail
the movements which led to this result, would produce a despatch
of greater length than is necessary; nor, indeed, could it be well
understood, as no map exists of this part of Schwistan and Cutchee;
suffice it therefore to say that the mountain tribes occupy a country of
extensive deserts and barren mountains, stretching about one hundred
and forty miles from east to west. Into this apex, or smaller part, we
succeeded in driving the robber chiefs; but with great difficulty, for
this part of the country is full of the most dangerous defiles. To
enter them with a regular force is an operation which threatens it with
destruction. The only credit to be acquired in such a war is that which
results from patience, under privations created by the dearth of water,
and the difficulty of getting supplies. These deprivations were borne
by this whole force with so much good humour as to show that the eager
desire of every one to do his duty absorbed all other feelings; and
deserves my highest praise. These privations fell especially hard upon
those hard-working and much-enduring men, called camp-followers. The
result of this campaign may be divided into two parts--the physical
effect and the moral effect. With regard to the first the results are
as follows:--First, the total destruction of the robber tribes; Deyriah
Khan, chief of the Jackranies, Dinanah Moondrannee, Sooliman Ramdanee,
and Toork Ali, and their tribes, all surrendered on the 5th, accompanied
by Jumea Khan, nephew of Beeja Khan Doomkie, with a large portion
of that tribe. These men I pardoned, and saved from plunder, but on
condition of their being transplanted into the Scinde territory. The
great chief, Beeja Khan, and the rest of the Doomkies, refused to
surrender on the proffered conditions. They held out till this day, when
they were forced to submit unconditionally, together with Meer Hussen
Notanee, a leading chief ot the Boogtie tribe, and his followers; also
Mundoo Khan Doomkie, nephew to Beejar Khan, and Wuzeer Doomkie, son of
Beejar Khan: Ali Sher Boordie, a minor desert chief, surrendered a week
ago, and was the first who broke the coalition. The chiefs and their
tribes who have held out have been deservedly plundered by the troops
which I had despatched in all directions to intercept their retreat,
with their baggage, cattle, and household furniture; almost everything
has been taken except what was in possession of their women and
children, who have been in no way molested, or even approached by the
troops. The moral effect of this expedition has been:--1st. To spread
a wholesome respect for our arms among the neighbouring nations, who,
seeing that tribes so warlike and honoured among them have been broken
to pieces without daring to fight a battle, even when posted in the
celebrated fastness of Truckee, will form a just idea of the British
power. Indeed, I have already received, within the last few days,
letters from neighbouring tribes, asking me to attach their territory to
Scinde, to be under the British rule, and thus to be protected from the
pillage and misery in which they live. 2nd. The moral effect in Scinde
will be to give confidence to the people; especially those bordering on
the desert frontier, whose cries against the government during the last
summer, for not affording them protection against the robber tribes,
were both frequent and just; but the great heat at that time rendered
it impossible to give them that protection. The example now made of the
robber tribes, will show the people of Scinde that the government has
both the will and the power to protect them."


THE STATE OF THE CONTINENT.

The war which France had waged in Algeria for a considerable period
continued throughout the whole of this year and was marked by several
reverses experienced by its forces.

Little of interest occurs in the annals of Spain during this year. The
chiefs, Zurbano and Muro, were captured near Logrono, and were both
shot. The hopes of Don Carlos were now cut off, and he was under
the necessity of issuing this farewell address to the Spanish
nation:--"Spaniards, my faithful defenders, called to the crown of
Spain by imprescriptible rights, my sole desire has constantly been,
the happiness of my beloved country. That happiness now requires my
renunciation in behalf of my very dear eldest son, Charles Louis, prince
of the Asturias. No sacrifice could be too great to me when the welfare
of my land was at stake. I have willingly made that of the renunciation
in behalf of my son, whom you will acknowledge as my lawful successor,
and surround with the same affection and fidelity. He will, on his side,
know how to reward, as they deserve to be, your loyalty and constancy in
upholding the sound principles which alone can save Spain. In quitting
public life, I feel great satisfaction and consolation in expressing my
gratitude for the heroic achievements by which you have astonished the
world, and which will ever remain engraven on my heart. Farewell, my
constant defenders and faithful companions. Pray unto God with me
that He may take pity on the miseries of our country, and vouchsafe us
quieter and happier days." During the year some disturbances occurred
at Madrid, and the state of Catalonia caused government considerable
uneasiness; but these insurrectionary movements were finally put down,
though not without loss of life.

At Rimini, in Italy, on the 23rd of September, a revolt broke out
against the papal authority. A number of persons, armed with muskets,
assembled in the Square-del-Corso; and when the garrison was called out
the soldiers joined the populace, and a provincial junto was appointed.
Other towns followed the example of Rimini, and emigrants from the
Tuscan dominions united with the insurgents. Their leaders were Counts
Biancoli, Pasi, and Beltrami; and they took up a position near Faenza;
but being attacked by detachments of pontifical and Austrian soldiers
at this place, they were finally compelled to fly for refuge into the
Tuscan states, where they were protected by the grand duke, and whence,
subsequently, they set sail for Marseilles.

During this year the King of Holland paid a visit to her majesty Queen
Victoria, to which event, on his return to his dominions, in his speech
to the States-general, he thus referred:--"The visit which I have
paid to her majesty the Queen of England will contribute, I hope,
to consolidate the good understanding which exists between the two
countries and their governments. For my part, I shall retain the most
agreeable impression of the welcome which I received on that visit."


CHAPTER LVII.

{VICTORIA. 1845-1846}

     State of Public Affairs at the Commencement of this Year,
     &c...... Meeting of Parliament..... Settlement of the Corn
     Law Question.


STATE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS AT THE COMMENCEMENT OF THIS YEAR, ETC.

{A.D. 1846}

The close of the last year and the commencement of the present, were
marked by great activity among all classes on the subject of the
corn-laws. The agents of the anti-corn-law league were everywhere
active. Meetings were held in every part of England; and converts to the
free-trade doctrine were made daily. Even the farmers at this time began
to think that their interests were concerned in the matter; and some
landowners adopted the views of the great leader of the movement, Mr.
Cobden. A stimulus was given to the exertions of the free-traders in the
failure of the potato crop in the autumn of 1845, both in England and
Ireland. It was generally felt, indeed, that some alterations in the
corn-laws must be made, and that government itself would be compelled to
throw the trade open. While the hopes of the free-traders in Sir Robert
Peel were thus excited, those of his own party seemed proportionably
cast down. They, too, held meetings, and formed agricultural protection
societies in every part of the United Kingdom. It was, in truth, evident
to every man that a change was coming; and while the mass hailed the
prospect with delight, the great landowners, witli some exceptions,
stretched every nerve to stem the onward progress of free-trade
principles. The hopes of the one party, and the fears of the other, were
heightened by the quarrel with America concerning the Oregon territory.
It was thought by all that the abolition of the corn-law would for
ever destroy all chance of war between England and the United States,
inasmuch as the latter country would see that its interest was concerned
in cultivating that great blessing of life--peace. Coming events thus
cast their broad and ample shadows before.

From the thirteenth century, downwards, there are numerous instances on
record of the interference of the legislature with the course of trade
in every department. A few centuries ago, indeed, it was usual to fix
the prices of many articles of consumption; and that of corn was more
interfered with than any other. One circumstance which led to this
interference was scarcity; and another, the want of adequate means of
internal communication, which often rendered it more profitable to the
corn-factor to ship the surplus produce of our maritime districts to a
neighbouring country, than to send it to other counties in England. As a
remedy for these evils, exportation was prohibited. But such a measure,
inasmuch as exportation would not take place except when a better
price could be got abroad than at home, was a palpable injustice to the
grower. On the other hand, when the general supply was supposed to be
more than sufficient, importation was prohibited; but as wheat could
never be imported except when it was cheaper in foreign countries than
in our own, an injustice was done to the consumer. These restrictions
failed to effect their object, and a third party was then fixed upon
as the object of further legislation; from alternately restricting
the export and import of corn, stringent restrictions were laid on the
buying and selling of corn within the country itself. The buying of corn
in one place, to sell in another, was even looked upon as an unnecessary
and improper interference on the part of the dealers. Both the farmers
and the people looked upon them as interlopers: men who had no right to
deal in corn, and who, to enhance their own gains, increased the price
without any profit to the former, and the manifest detriment of the
latter. The complaints against them were so general that the legislature
interfered. Protection to the growers of corn pervaded the legislature
down to the period of 1815; but so badly were the arrangements for this
purpose laid, that the protective laws were often abortive. Generally,
the country raised more corn than it consumed--a sufficient cause for
rendering protection inoperative. In 1773 the period closed during
which this country commonly raised a surplus of corn beyond its own
consumption, and the duties on importation became oppressive. Mr.
Robinson brought forward the resolutions which were embodied in the
celebrated corn-law of 1815. The report of a committee in 1814 fixed the
remunerating price at 80s., and it was proposed absolutely to prohibit
the importation of foreign wheat till it reached that price, and
of colonial wheat till it reached 67s.; when over those prices,
respectively, the imports were to be free. This measure was in itself
oppressive, but it was made doubly so by the mode adopted for fixing
the averages. These were fixed every three months upon the prices of the
previous six weeks, and continued the same until the expiration of the
quarter. However great might be the demands of the country for import,
no rise of price could affect the scale of duties until the arrival
of the next period for fixing the averages. The measure created a great
sensation throughout the country, and met with much opposition in both
houses of parliament; but it passed into law. Agriculturalists now
considered that the price of 80s. per quarter for their corn was
certain, and cheerfully entered into contracts with their landlords upon
that basis. It soon, however, proved to be mere delusion. The three next
years witnessed deficient harvests, which had the effect at one time of
raising the price to 112s. 7d.; but the ports were at length opened, and
in September, 1817, the price had fallen to 74s. The harvest of 1819 was
an average one, and the price of corn through' the year, ranged at 72s.
But this was a remunerating price, and the farmers and landowners were
induced to increase the breadth of land sown, in the hope of selling the
produce at remunerating prices. They were still convinced that the act
of 1815 was efficient to protect their interests, and they should still
flourish. But the harvest of 1821 was abundant, and the effect was such
as to surprise, though it did not instruct them. The price of corn in
July, 1821, was 51s., and the two next harvests being abundant likewise,
the price sunk in August, 1822, to 42s. The law of 1815, therefore, had
the effect of seducing the farmer into a course of conduct which induced
ruin rather than prosperity. Committees were appointed to inquire into
the causes of distress then prevailing among them. These inquiries were
useless; but, by the year 1824, much of the capital invested in the
poorer description of soils, under the stimulus of the high prices of
previous years, was withdrawn, and less corn being brought to market,
the price rose considerably, and an improved condition of the farmer
took place accordingly. For several years nothing was done permanently
to settle the terms upon which foreign corn could be admitted into the
market. Colonial corn was still excluded till the average price reached
67s. In 1825, however, an act was passed, admitting corn from our North
American colonies at a fixed duty of 5s. per quarter, till July, 1827;
and by another act passed at the same time, corn from our other colonies
was admitted at reduced duties: the stocks of corn in bond were further
admitted for consumption at lower duties. In 1826 there was a partial
failure of the corn-crops, and an order in council was issued in
September 1st, admitting for home consumption oats and oatmeal, rye,
peas, and beans, on the ground that there was great cause to fear that
much distress might ensue to all classes of his majesty's subjects. A
meeting of parliament was summoned in November, to indemnify ministers
for this order in council, on which occasion Mr. Canning announced the
intention of government early in the ensuing session to introduce a
general measure on the corn-trade. This measure was brought forward soon
after the next meeting of parliament; and its plan was a sliding-scale,
with a more regular and artificial range of duties than those of the
existing law; the object being to keep the price of wheat somewhere
between 55s. and 65s. This bill passed the house of commons by a large
majority; but the bill met with so much opposition in the upper house,
that Mr. Canning, whose health was now declining, dropped the measure,
and announced another of a similar character early in the ensuing
session. Before that period arrived, however, Mr. Canning died, and
the task of introducing the measure of 1828 fell to the share of Mr. C.
Grant, then president of the board of trade. His resolutions differed
from those of Mr. Canning, chiefly in making the protection afforded
when the average price should range between 60s. and 70s. more
restrictive by an amount varying from 3s. to 7s. per quarter. The new
scale was also less regular in its construction; and thus afforded
greater inducements to the commission of frauds upon the averages. This
bill, notwithstanding, passed both houses: it being accepted by the
landed interest as the best to be obtained in the then state of parties,
and by their opponents as a step towards further reform. The scale of
duties as established by this law fixed the price of 1s. per quarter
when the average of six weeks per quarter was 73s.; but when the average
was 60s. no less a sum than 36s. 8d. was to be paid for duty. From
this period down to 1842 no further change took place in the corn-laws,
though year after year the subject was agitated in one shape or the
other, and committees were appointed to inquire into the state of
agriculture. In the year 1842 her majesty's speech at the opening of the
session recommended the taking of "the state of the laws which affected
the import of corn" into consideration, and expressed regret at the
continued distress in the manufacturing districts. For the measure
brought forward by Sir Robert Peel, the reader is referred to the
parliamentary debates of that year; it will be sufficient here to state,
that in his resolutions he retained the sliding-scale, and introduced
such amendments as he conceived would diminish the oscillations
previously experienced under that mode of levying the duties. Up to the
year 1846, Sir Robert Peel resolutely defended the measure passed in
1842; giving a decided negative to all the free-trade propositions moved
by Lord John Russell and Messrs. Cobden and Villiers, with other members
of parliament. His constant reply was, to these propositions, that
his experience of the present system was not such as to induce him to
propose "further change at present." He was at length convinced by the
arguments of his opponents that the corn-laws were no longer tenable. He
resigned office, promising Lord John Russell, whom he recommended to her
majesty as his successor, his support in the final adjustment of this
great question. There was no one, however, able to settle this
question but himself; and when Lord John Russell failed in forming an
administration, he resumed office with a fixed resolution, at the risk
of being denominated a changeling and a deceiver of party, to open the
English ports to all the world. How he grappled with and settled the
question will be seen in the ensuing debates.


MEETING OF PARLIAMENT.

Parliament reassembled on the 19th of February. As her majesty proceeded
to the walls of St. Stephen, a significant incident occurred: at the
corner of Bridge-street, one of the spectators exclaimed, "No monopoly!"
at which her majesty smiled, graciously bowing, at which a hundred
voices united in the shout of "God save the queen!" The speech delivered
by the queen first referred to friendly relations with allied powers; to
an adjustment of differences between the Ottoman Porte and the King of
Persia, to negociations pending for the pacification of the states of
Rio de la Plata, in which for several years a desolating and sanguinary
war had existed; and to the convention concluded with France last year
for the more effectual suppression of the slave-trade. On the dispute
with America her majesty remarked:--"I regret that the conflicting
claims of Great Britain and the United States, in respect of the
territory on the north-western coast of America, although they have been
made the subject of repeated negociation, still remain unsettled. You
may be assured that no effort consistent with national honour shall
be wanting on my part to bring this question to an early and peaceful
termination." Having adverted to the estimates, and to the crime of
assassination in Ireland, which was more flagrant than even in former
years, her majesty proceeded to say:--"I have to lament that in
consequence of a failure of the potato crop in several parts of the
United Kingdom, there will be a deficient supply of an article of food
which forms the chief subsistence of great numbers of my people. The
disease by which the plant has been affected, has prevailed to the
utmost extent in Ireland. I have adopted all such precautions as it was
in my power to adopt for the purpose of alleviating the sufferings which
maybe caused by this calamity; and I shall confidently rely on your
co-operation in devising such other means for effecting the same
benevolent purpose as may require the sanction of the legislature. I
have had great satisfaction in giving my assent to the measures which
you have presented to me from time to time, calculated to extend
commerce, and to stimulate domestic skill and industry, by the repeal of
prohibitory and restrictive duties. The prosperous state of the revenue;
the increased demand for labour, and the general improvement which
has taken place in the internal condition of the country, are strong
testimonies in favour of the course you have pursued. I recommend you to
take into your early consideration, whether the principles on which you
have acted, may not with advantage be yet more extensively applied,
and whether it may not be in your power, after a careful review of the
existing duties upon many articles the produce or manufacture of other
countries, to make such further reductions and remissions as may tend to
insure the continuance of the great benefits to which I have adverted,
and, by enlarging our commercial intercourse, to strengthen the bonds of
amity with foreign powers."

Before proceeding with the address, Sir Robert Peel announced that on
the next Monday, he should propose the appointment of a committee to
consider the mode in which the house should deal with railway bills; and
that on Tuesday, the following day, he would make, in committee of the
whole house, a statement as to the intention of her majesty's government
with respect to the commercial policy of the country, and the corn-laws.

The address was moved in the commons by Lord Francis Egerton. Lord
Francis had long been a noted Conservative, and a supporter of the
corn-laws; but he now avowed himself favourable to free-trade. The
address was seconded by Mr. Beckett Denison. Sir Robert Peel rose to
explain the late ministerial crisis, and his own views and measures.
He attributed the cause which led to the dissolution of the cabinet, to
that great and mysterious calamity--the failure of the potato crop. At
the same time he confessed, that it would be uncandid to attribute undue
importance to that one cause. "That particular cause," he continued,
"appeared to me to preclude any further delay, and to require immediate
decision--decision, not only upon the measures which it was necessary
at the time to adopt, but as to the course to be ultimately taken with
regard to the laws which govern the importation of grain." Sir Robert
Peel continued to say he should have wished that another parliament
should have had the opportunity of considering this question; but in
the course of last autumn occurred that visitation of Providence, the
consequences of which it was still difficult to foresee--the failure of
the potato crop in Ireland, and in some parts of England--and it became
a question whether it was not desirable to take immediate steps to
meet the threatened evil. Government had instituted inquiries, and had
received much correspondence from foreign countries on the subject;
and from all the accounts they had received, it became evident that
something must be done. The right honourable baronet next came to the
explanation of what had occurred in the cabinet, and how he had been
led to tender his resignation. He would not have abandoned his post, he
said, if he had been supported by an unanimous government; but that was
not the case, and he had no alternative but to quit office. Her majesty
accepted his resignation, and of her own choice sent for Lord John
Russell, who undertook the task of forming an administration. Their
appeared every probability that the question would have devolved on his
lordship; but before he went to Windsor to take a final farewell of the
queen, he learned that Lord John had failed to form a government. On
meeting Sir Robert, the queen informed him that so far from taking
leave, she was obliged to require him to continue his services; and the
colleagues who differed from him not having advised the formation of a
cabinet on the principles of protection, and Lord John having failed, he
did not hesitate to withdraw his resignation. Accordingly he resolved
to meet parliament, prepared to submit those measures which he thought
necessary to meet the emergency. These measures would be brought forward
on Tuesday next, and therefore he would not anticipate the discussion.
Lord John Russell rose to explain his conduct during the recent
negociations, and how he had failed in forming an administration. Having
received her majesty's commands, he called together those with whom he
had been in the habit of acting, and had stated that he would endeavour
to frame an outline of a measure on the corn-laws. He had previously
been informed by Sir Robert Peel that it was not advisable he should
state the details of the measure he should have brought forward under
the responsibility of his own government: and, therefore, he had to
consider what it would be the duty of his government to propose, should
he succeed in forming one. The result of his exertions on this subject
would be best explained by reading a letter which he addressed to her
majesty:--"Lord John Russell presents his humble duty to your majesty,
and has the honour to state that he has found it impossible to form an
administration. Lord John Russell was aware from the first moment, when
your majesty was pleased to propose this commission, that there were
very great difficulties in the way, which it required the most cordial
co-operation on the part of his friends, and the firm support of a large
portion of those who followed Sir Robert Peel to surmount. Those who
have served your majesty and your royal predecessor in cabinet-offices
during the administration of Lord Grey and Lord Melbourne, who were now
in political connexion with Lord John Russell were consulted by him.
They agreed on the principles by which they would be guided in framing
a measure for the repeal of the corn-laws. Thus one great difficulty was
surmounted. But, as the party which acts with Lord John Russell is in a
minority in both houses of parliament, it was necessary to ascertain
how far they were likely to obtain the support of Sir Robert Peel. Your
majesty is acquainted with all that has passed on this subject. Lord
John Russell is quite ready to admit that Sir Robert Peel has been
willing, from the commencement to the end, to diminish the difficulties
in the course of a new government prepared to attempt the settlement
of the corn-laws. But Sir Robert Peel could not, of course, rely on the
support of his political friends should the proposed measure be in their
eyes dangerous and unwise. In this uncertainty of obtaining a majority
in the house of commons it was absolutely necessary that all those who
were prominent in the political party to which Lord John Russell is
attached should give their zealous aid, and act in concert in the new
administration. Lord John Russell has, in one instance, been unable to
obtain this concert; and he must now consider this task as hopeless,
which has been from the beginning hazardous. Lord John Russell is deeply
sensible of the embarrassment caused by the present state of public
affairs. He will be ready, therefore, to do all in his power, as a
member of parliament, to promote the settlement of that question which,
in present circumstances, is the source of so much danger, especially
to the welfare and peace of Ireland. Lord John Russell would have
formed his ministry on the basis of a complete free trade in corn, to
be established at once, without gradation or delay. He would have
accompanied that proposal with measures of relief to a considerable
extent of the occupiers of land from the burdens to which they are
subjected. But he will be little disposed to insist, as a member of
parliament, on what may seem to your majesty's advisers an impracticable
course. The country requires, above all things, an early and peaceable
settlement of a question, which, if not soon settled, may, in an
adverse state of affairs, cause a fearful convulsion." Lord John Russell
concluded by expressing the obligations he felt to her majesty for the
gracious manner in which she entrusted him with the task of forming the
administration; and by stating that, whether in office or out of office,
he should be ready to give his assent to measures calculated to benefit
the country, without reference to the proposer. Mr. D'Israeli was not so
liberal in his sentiments. As the champion of protection, he asked,
what would be thought of a statesman who, having served under four
sovereigns, came forward and declared that, after an observation of
three years, he had found it necessary to change his convictions on a
subject which must have presented itself for more than twenty years to
his notice?

The peers waved their right to discuss these great topics on the first
night of the session; awaiting the discussion in the commons. The
Duke of Richmond endeavoured to bring on a debate; but ministers were
taciturn; and after a long and discursive speech delivered by Lord
Brougham, which touched upon the subjects of the Oregon dispute, the
corn-laws, and Irish affairs, the address was carried. In the course
of the evening, the Duke of Richmond wished the Duke of Wellington
to explain the reasons which induced the government to accept and to
re-accept office; but his grace said that he could not do so without her
majesty's permission. On the following Monday, however, the noble
duke explained their reasons in his own plain, straightforward, and
characteristic manner. What these reasons were has been touched upon
before.


SETTLEMENT OF THE CORN-LAW QUESTION.

The house of commons resolved itself into committee on Tuesday, the
3rd of February, to consider that portion of the speech from the throne
referring to the commercial policy of the government. Sir Robert Peel
commenced his speech by bespeaking the patient indulgence of the house.
He was about to act, he said, on the assumption adopted in the queen's
speech, that the repeal of prohibitory duties, and the relaxation of
protective duties is in itself a wise policy. He was about to act on
the presumption, that during the last three years, notwithstanding the
relaxation of heavy taxes, there had been increased revenue, increased
demand for labour, increased commerce, increased comfort, contentment,
and peace in the country. Passing on to the explanation of his views and
designs, the right honourable baronet said, that within the last three
years, the tariff, that is, the whole scheme of customs' duties, had
been submitted to the review of parliament; and the general principle of
the changes then effected was, to remit the duty on raw materials,
and to subject foreign manufactures to a duty of twenty per cent.
Notwithstanding the fears of a falling revenue, those remissions were
carried further: in 1844, the duty on wool was altogether reduced; in
1845, the duty on cotton-wool. Almost the only articles of the nature of
raw material still subjected to duty were timber and tallow; and he
now proposed to reduce these. Tallow, which was chiefly imported from
Russia, had a duty on it of 3s. 2d. per hundred weight; he proposed,
mainly with a view to our own interests, and partly to induce Russia
to follow our liberal policy, to reduce it to Is. 6d. With respect
to timber, he could not yet state particulars, as the details needed
careful adjustment. The course which government would probably take
would be a gradual reduction of the existing amount of duty, where it
should rest a certain time lower than at present: the reduction being
so apportioned, if possible, as to prevent any derangement of internal
trade by inducing parties to withhold the supply of timber, in the hope
of realising a large amount of duty; and yet at the same time, as the
importation of timber from the Baltic partook in some respect of a
monopoly, care would be taken that the reduction of duty should be an
advantage, not so much to the producer as to the consumer. Having given
the manufacturer the advantage of a free command, without any impost, of
the raw materials which enter into his fabrics, he should call upon the
manufacturers of the three great articles which entered into consumption
as the clothing of the great body of the community, to give a proof
of the sincerity of their convictions as to the impolicy of protective
duties, by consenting to relax the protection on their manufactures.
These three great articles were linen, woollen, and cotton manufactures;
and he asked the manufacturers of these at once to set the example to
others, by relaxing, voluntarily and cheerfully, the protection they
enjoyed. It should not be said, that he considered only the "great
interests," and injured the minor interests. As the case now stood, the
great articles of the cotton manufacture, such as calicos, prints, &c,
were subject to a duty of 10 per cent, on importation; while cottons
made up, as cotton stockings, &c, were subject to a duty of 20 per cent.
With respect to the former articles, he proposed that they should
be duty free; and that the duty of 20 per cent, on the manufactured
articles of cotton in a more advanced state should be reduced to 10 per
cent. He proposed also to call on the manufacturers of linen and
woollen to relinquish protection on the coarser manufactures used in the
clothing of the great body of the people. There would be some loss
to the revenue; but he believed that the importation of some articles
competing with the production of our manufacturers would stimulate their
skill; and, with the capital and enterprise of this country, he did not
doubt but they would beat foreign manufactures. At present woollen goods
which were made up were subject to a duty of 20 per cent.: he proposed
they should be reduced to 10 per cent. Flax was a raw material, he
continued, imported free of duty: the duty will be taken off the coarser
manufactures; on the finest and made up kinds it would be reduced one
half. Silk enjoyed apparently a protection of 30 per cent., practically
ranging indeed to 78, or even 145 per cent, on some made up articles,
such as net and bonnets, or turbans: but a false reliance was placed
on that protection. It was a delusion: many houses in London and Paris
undertook to introduce silken goods into this country at half the
duty. The revenue and the trade were robbed by the smuggler; and the
manufacturer was deluded by an unreal protection. With respect to silks,
he proposed, therefore, to adopt a new principle. The general rule would
be, enumerating each article of silk manufacture, to levy a duty of so
much per pound, giving an option to the custom-house officers of levying
for every £100 value of silk, a duty of 15 per cent. Sir Robert Peel
went on to explain the reduction of duties on paper-hangings, carriages,
metal manufactures, soap, &c, most of which articles are noticed in a
subsequent page. By the measure of 1842, he continued, the tariff was
greatly simplified. There were one thousand articles still on the list,
five hundred of which were free of duty: he proposed that many other
articles should be relieved from duty. Brandy and foreign spirits were
to be reduced from 22s. 10d. per gallon to 15s. With respect to sugar,
he could not enter into details; and he feared his proposition would not
satisfy all parties. He would still exclude slave-labour sugar; but on
free-labour sugar, the differential duties would be reduced from lis.
8d. for clayed sugar, to 8s.; for Muscovado, from 9s. 4d. to 5s. 10d. He
next came to the articles connected with agriculture; first taking those
not immediately used as food for the people. On leek and onion seed, he
said, the duty was 20s. per cwt.: he proposed to reduce it to 5s. With
reference to maize, or Indian corn, he proposed that the duty upon it
should hereafter and immediately be nominal. By removing this duty he
did not conceive that he was depriving agriculture of any protection.
Maize was generally used in the United States, and partly for human
food: and he believed that, though it was disregarded in this country,
on parts of the Continent it was made into excellent food. His object
in providing for its free importation was the better feeding of
cattle, which would be an advantage rather than a detriment to the
agriculturist. Buck-wheat was to be subject to the same rule: maize and
buck-wheat, and the flour of these corns, were to be admitted duty free.
"Rice feed," as a substitute for the expensive article of linseed-cake
was also to be introduced, for the better feeding of cattle, duty free.
He now came to the food of man. He feared that his proposal would not
satisfy both sides--those who insisted on protection, and those who
insisted on its total abolition. He could assure both that his desire
was, without any favour or undue partiality, to suggest that which he
believed to be just, and calculated to terminate that conflict, the
continuance of which all must regret. He considered that it was for the
public advantage, at least, to lay the foundation of a final settlement
of this question; but he was not about to propose the immediate repeal
upon grain. But first he explained his course with reference to other
articles. Butter, the duty of which was 20s. per cwt., hops £4 10s.,
and cured fish 2s., were each to be reduced one half. On those articles
which constituted meat as distinguished from grain, namely, fresh or
salted beef, salt or fresh pork, potatoes, vegetables of all sorts,
and un-enumerated articles of the kind, he proposed a total repeal. The
duties on live animals also would be abolished. Some urged him to make
a distinction in the importation of lean or fatted cattle, as it was
unfair to levy an equal amount on both kinds: his proposal to admit
materials for fattening cattle would meet that objection. He hoped that
these advantages would be considered as somewhat a compensation for any
immediate loss that might be felt by the introduction free of the
other animals. He asked those connected with agriculture, while he was
proposing these reductions, to bear in mind that he had already proposed
the removal of protection from some of the great articles of manufacture
connected with clothing in this country. He directed their attention
not merely to the protection connected with the land, but asked them
to remember that he had called on the manufacturers to set the first
example of the relinquishment of protection. They would bear in mind
that their farm servants and domestics would be able to command a
cheaper supply of clothing; and they would, therefore, be disposed to
follow the example of those whom he had called upon to make the first
example of relinquishment. Sir Robert continued:--"I will now state,
with the permission of the house, the proposal which I mean to make on
the subject of grain. I propose that, from the passing of the act, some
articles shall be admitted duty free. On the one hand, I do not propose
the immediate repeal of the corn-laws; but in the hope of a final
arrangement, of preventing undue apprehensions, and giving time for the
adjustment of agriculture to the new state of circumstances, though
I propose a temporary continuance of protection, I propose it on the
distinct understanding, that, after the lapse of a certain time,
foreign grain shall be imported into this country duty free. I am deeply
convinced that any intermediate proposal would be of no avail. It
would have been entirely out of my power to explain or to suggest any
modification of the existing corn-law with a guarantee that it should
be continued. The choice is either between the maintenance intact of
the existing amount of protection in every particular, or laying the
foundation for an ultimate settlement by means of ultimate freedom. I
propose, therefore, a considerable reduction in the existing amount of
duties; and I propose that the continuance of the duty so reduced shall
be for a period of three years; that it shall then continue till that
period of the year in which I believe there will be least inconvenience
in the termination of that protection. I propose that on and after the
1st of February, 1849, oats, barley, and wheat shall be subject only to
that nominal rate of duty which I have proposed to apply to maize and
buck-wheat. But what shall be the intermediate state of the law during
the continuance of these three years?" Sir Robert Peel then explained the
duties on wheat, oats, and barley, which will be found in a subsequent
page; after which, he stated that the arrangement of them would
be accompanied by other provisions, calculated, if not to give
compensation, at least to advance the interests of the agriculturists.
"Take," he said, "some of the burdens on land, and see whether they
are not capable of alleviation, not by their transfer to others, but
by introducing reforms into their administration. Take that admitted
grievance, the highway-rates. As railways advance, the parish highways
will become of increased importance. There are 16,000 local authorities
that have charge of these highways. There is a nominal surveyor to each
parish--a surveyor who knows nothing about rates. Such a division of
authority makes lax expenditure and bad management. An existing act
of parliament authorizes the union of parishes for the management of
highways; but the act is permissory--the union must be voluntary; and
in very few cases has advantage been taken of the statute. I propose
to make what is now voluntary, compulsory. Taking the scale of the
poor-law, there will be 600 district authorities, instead of 16,000."
Further aid would be given to agriculture in loans of public money for
improvement of estates, to persons applying for assistance; the public
to be secured against ultimate loss. The loans were to be made by the
exchequer-bill commissioners, and the administration of the measure
entrusted to the newly-appointed inclosure-commissioners; the
preliminary expenses to be borne by the applicant for aid. An annual
repayment by instalments was to be secured as a rent-charge, having
priority over other charges; but the commissioners would have the
discretion left to them of allowing objections made by parties already
having a charge on the land. This alteration, Sir Robert said, he
believed would lay the foundation for great agricultural improvement
throughout the country. He further proposed to relieve the counties of
the whole expense of prisoners, and place it upon the consolidated
fund: the charges of that fund to be subject to periodical review in the
house. The estimated cost of that change was £64,900. In England
half the expense of the prosecutions, in Scotland all, is paid by the
treasury: he proposed to make the treasury pay the whole in England
and in Ireland. The relief would not be great; but it would be of
importance, as giving greater control over prosecutions: the estimated
expense in England was £100,000; in Ireland, £17,000. At present part of
the police force in Ireland was borne by the land: he proposed to impose
the whole expense on the state. He proposed, also, that government
should bear a share in the cost of medical relief under the new poor-law
act; half to be defrayed by government, half by local authorities--the
estimated cost was £100,000 for England, and £15,000 for Scotland. Aid
also would be given in providing education in workhouses; the unions to
appoint, and government to pay the schoolmasters. The expense of this
would be £30,000. Finally, government proposed to pay the poor-law
auditors in England and Ireland, which would cost £15,000. Sir Robert
concluded by thanking the house for the patience with which they had
listened to his financial exposition.

A long and desultory conversation followed this explanation of the
ministerial measure of free trade; several members avowing their
determined hostility, and others promising unlimited support. At the
suggestion of Sir Robert Peel, Monday, the 9th of February, was fixed
for the day on which the discussion should commence. In order to enable
the reader to understand rightly the reductions and alterations proposed
in the tariff, it is necessary to glance at the resolutions proposed by
Sir Robert Peel in committee of the whole house on the customs and corn
act. The first resolution related to the importation of corn, grain,
meal, or flour, setting forth the duties to paid until the 1st day of
February, 1849, when the duties were wholly to cease. Thus, on wheat,
when under 48s. per quarter, 10s. duty was to paid; and this duty was to
be lowered Is. on the rise of wheat up to 53s., when there was to be a
duty paid of 4s. for every quarter. Barley, oats, rye, peas, and beans,
wheat-meal and flour, barley-meal, oat-meal, rye-meal, pea-meal, and
bean-meal were by tire same resolution, taxed in equal proportion, until
the 1st day of February, 1849, when these duties were likewise to cease
and determine; or, at least, to pay only a nominal duty of 1s. per
quarter on wheat, let the price be what it might, and the other corn in
proportion to its value. By the second resolution, in lieu of duties of
customs then chargeable on certain articles, reduced duties were, from
the passing of the bill, to be exacted. These articles consisted of what
might be termed the necessaries and luxuries of life; and the duties
were reduced on some to the amount of one hundred per cent. The articles
enumerated in the resolution were agates, or cornelians; ale and beer;
almonds; amber (manufactures of); arrowroot; band-string twist; bailey,
pearled; bast-ropes; twines, and strands; beads: coral; crystal; jet;
beer or mum; blacking; brass manufactures; brass (powder of); brocade
of gold or silver; bronze (manufactures of); bronze-powder; buck-wheat:
butter; buttons; candles; canes; carriages of all sorts; casks;
cassiva-powder; catlings; cheese; china or porcelain; cider; citron;
clocks; copper manufactures; copper or brass wire; cotton; crayons;
crystal (cut and manufactured); cucumbers; fish; gauze of thread; hair,
manufactures of hair or goats' wool, &c.; hams; harp-strings; hats
or bonnets of straw, silk, beaver, felt, &c.; hops; iron and steel,
wrought; japanned or lacquered ware; lace, made by the hand,
&c.; latten-wire; lead (manufactures of); leather (manufactures
of)--calashes, boots, and shoes, of all sorts; linen, or linen and
cotton, viz., cambrics, lawns, damasks, &c.; maize, or Indian corn;
musical instruments; mustard-flower; paper, painted or stained paper,
&c.; pencils, lead and slate; perfumery; perry; pewter; pomatum; pots
of stone; puddings and sausages; rice; sago; seeds, garden, &c.; silk
(manufactures of), &c.; silk-worm gut; skins (articles manufactured of);
soap, hard and soft; spa-ware; spirits, viz., brandy, geneva, and other
foreign spirits, &c.; steel manufactures; tallow; tapioca; tin; tobacco;
tongues; turnery; twine; varnish; wafers; washing-balls; wax (sealing);
whipcord; wire; woollen manufactures. If any of the articles here
enumerated was the production of a British possession, they were to be
admitted at a reduced duty. Thus, while the woollen goods of foreign
countries were to pay £10 for every £100 value, those of British
possessions were only to pay £5. By a third resolution the duties of
customs, chargeable upon certain goods, wares, and merchandise imported
into the United Kingdom, were to cease and determine. These goods,
wares, and merchandise were--living animals: viz., asses, goats, kids,
oxen, and bulls; cows, calves, horses, mares, geldings, colts, foals,
mules, sheep, lambs, swine, and hogs, and sucking-pigs; bacon; beef
(fresh and salted); bottles of earth and stone; casts of busts, statues,
or figures; caviare; cranberries; cotton manufactures, not being
articles wholly or in part made up, not otherwise charged with duty;
enamel; gelatine; glue; hay; hides, tawed, curried, or in any way
dressed, not otherwise enumerated; ink for printers; inkle (wrought);
lamp-black; linen, manufactures of linen, or of linen mixed with cotton,
or with wool, not particularly enumerated, or otherwise charged with
duty, not being articles wholly or in part made up; magna-grocia ware;
manuscripts; maps, and charts; matresses; meat, (salted or fresh), not
otherwise described; medals; palmetto-thatch manufactures; parchment;
pens; plantains; potatoes; pork, fresh and salted; silk, thrown or
dyed, viz., silk, single or tram, organzine, or crape-silk; thread, not
otherwise enumerated or described; woollens, viz., manufactures of wool,
not being goats' wool, or of wool mixed with cotton, not particularly
enumerated or described, not otherwise charged with duty, not being
articles wholly or in part made up; vegetables, all, not otherwise
enumerated or described; and vellum.

Sir Robert Peel announced the intentions of government with respect to
the reductions in the timber duties on Tuesday, the 10th of February.
He was anxious to make the statement at the earliest opportunity, on
account of the importance of the subject, and as the American mail was
on the eve of sailing from Liverpool. "We propose," he said, "to make
ultimately a reduction in the differential duty on foreign timber, so
that the duty shall remain after the reduction at 15s., instead of the
present amount. I think on hewn timber the duty is now 25s.; we propose
to reduce it 15s. But, with the view of insuring to the consumer as
great a benefit as possible, the Baltic timber-trade partaking now
very much of the nature of a monopoly, in consequence of the very great
demand for it, we do not propose that the reduction shall be immediate.
We propose that from the 5th of April, 1847, the period of the year we
think most suitable for making a reduction of duty, the duty on hewn
timber shall be reduced by 5s.; and on the 5th of April, 1848,
by another 5s. With respect to sawn timber maintaining the same
proportions, the reduction of duty ought to be 6s. on the 5th of April,
1847, and another 6s. on the 5th of April, 1848. With respect to the
smaller description, such as lath-wood, spars, and oars, the reduction
will be proportionate."

Such were the great measures of free-trade brought forward by
the government. By the people they were not met with any national
demonstration, or by any well-pronounced declaration. The signs of
the prevalent opinion, however, were well seen in various quarters,
particular as well as general, official as well as popular. Meetings
were held in various parts of the country, but success was very partial;
and if there was no enthusiastic and unqualified manifestation of the
abolition of the corn-laws on the part of "the country," the opposition
to it proved, to be disjointed and petty in the extreme. In parliament
the Conservatives put forth all their remaining strength to check the
onward progress of free-trade. On the 10th of February, the day fixed
for the resumption of the discussion, a "monster debate" commenced,
which, as will be seen, continued for some weeks. It was brought on by
Mr. P. Miles, who, on the motion that the house resolve itself into
a committee, moved that it should do so on that day six months. The
measure was further opposed by Lord Norrys, Sirs W. Heathcote and J.
Walsh, and Mr. W. S. Lascelles: Lord Sandon and Mr. Cochrane, both of
whom were Conservatives, supported it. Lord John Russell proceeded to
discuss the mode in which Sir Robert Peel had treated the question.
With the principles of the measure he agreed; but he advocated immediate
abolition of the corn-laws, and hoped that Sir Robert Peel would
reconsider that part of his plan. His lordship concluded by drawing
a contrast between the disinterested support which the Whigs were now
giving to the free-trade measures of a Tory government, and the factious
opposition which the Tories gave to the same measure when proposed by a
Whig government. He thought that if the free-trade measures of the Whig
government had been allowed to pass when originally proposed, much of
the sufferings of 1842 would have been avoided; and that if Sir Robert
Peel had then been true to himself, he would have escaped, much of the
invective now heaped upon him. After a few words from Sir Robert Inglis
and Captain Fitzmaurice in support of the amendment, and from Mr. S.
Herbert in favour of the measure, he having "changed his opinion on the
subject," on the motion of Mr. S. O'Brien, the debate was adjourned. The
debate continued by adjournment up to February 28th, before any division
or amendment took place: the opposition wishing to stop it on the very
threshold. On the last night of the debate the house was addressed by
Mr. Cobden, who complained that extraneous matter had been introduced
into the discussion to a greater extent than had ever been introduced
previously into any corn-law debate. The two main topics, he said, on
which it had turned, were the conduct of ministers and the propriety
of an appeal to the country. The people of England believed that the
discussion on the first topic was a quarrel got up for no other purpose
than to evade the real question, and to conceal from public observation
that there was no justification for the corn-laws. He assured their
opponents that the more they covered ministers with obloquy, the more
sympathy they would obtain from the country. In point of fact they
were making ministers popular: if Sir Robert Peel were to visit the
manufacturing districts, his march through them would, be one continued
triumph. Even Sir James Graham, who had rendered, himself unpopular by
certain measures, by his magnificent contribution to free trade, and
still more by the nightly attacks which had been made upon him during
this debate, had become an object of popular sympathy in Manchester
and Liverpool. As to the wish of the protectionists to appeal to the
country, nobody knew better than they did, that they had no chance of
obtaining a majority at the next election. Three months ago he had
said that the advocates of a free trade had no chance of obtaining that
majority; but now that the protectionists were a broken party, and
had lost all the talent and intelligence which formerly directed their
tactics, the case was altered, and it wras they who had now no chance of
success in an appeal to the constituency. Speaking of the intelligence
of the people on this subject, Mr. Cobden remarked:--"I will tell you
what my thoughts were, as T sat at home patiently reading these debates.
As I read speech after speech, and saw the fallacies which I had knocked
on the head seven years ago reappearing afresh, my thought was, What
fun these debates will afford the men in fustian jackets! All these
fallacies are perfectly transparent to these men; and they would laugh
at you for putting them forward. Dependence on foreigners! Who in the
world could have supposed that that long-buried ghost would come again
to light! Drain of gold! Wages rising and falling with the price of
bread! Throwing land out of cultivation, and bringing corn here at 25s.
a quarter! You forget that the great mass of the people now take a very
different view of these questions from what you do. Seven years ago they
gave in to your reiterated assertions that wages rise and fall with the
price of bread. You had a very fair clap-trap against us, as we happened
to be master manufacturers, in saying that we wanted to reduce wages.
But the right honourable baronet at the head of the government, and the
right honourable baronet, the home-secretary, are not suspected by the
English people of having such motives on these questions. The English
people have no disinclination to refer to high authorities on these
matters. They assume that men high in office have access to accurate
information; and they generally suppose that those men have no sinister
motive for deceiving the great body of the people on a question like
the present. You see I do not underrate the importance of your leaders
having declared in favour of free trade. On the contrary, I avow that
that has caused the greatest possible accession to the ranks of the free
traders. Well then, the working classes, not believing that wages rise
and fall with the price of bread, when you tell them that they are to
have corn at 25s. per quarter, instead of being frightened, are rubbing
their hands with the greatest satisfaction. They are not frightened at
the visions which you present to their eyes of a big loaf, seeing they
expect to get more money, and bread at half the price. And then the
danger of having your land thrown out of cultivation! Why, what would
the men in smock-frocks in the south of England say to that? They would
say, 'We shall get our land for potato-ground at 1/2 d. a lug, instead
of paying 3d. or 4d. for it.' These fallacies have all been disposed of;
and if you lived more in the world, more in contact with public opinion,
and less within that charmed circle which you think the world, but which
is anything but the world--if you gave way less to the excitement of
clubs, less to the buoyancy which arises from talking to each other
as to the effect of some smart speech in which the minister has been
assailed, you would see that it is mere child's play to attempt to balk
the intelligence of the country on this great question, and you would
not have talked as you have talked for the last eleven days." Mr. Cobden
proceeded to discuss the effect of the march of free trade on farmers;
proving to demonstration that they were not alarmed by it, and that
they were at the very time the discussion was going forward, and with a
certainty of the repeal of the corn-laws in prospect, taking farms at
a higher rent, and engaging to drain lands at great cost. Speaking
of public opinion on protection, he said:--"What is this boasted
protection? The country has come to regard it as they regard
witchcraft--as a mere sound and a delusion. They no more regard your
precautions against free-trade than they regard the horse-shoes that
are nailed over stables to keep the witches from the horses. They do
not believe in protection; they have no fear of free-trade; and they are
laughing to scorn all the arguments by which you are trying to frighten
them. How can protection, think you, add to the wealth of a country? Can
you by legislation add one farthing to the wealth of a country? You may
by legislation, in one evening, destroy the fruits and accumulations of
a century of labour: but I defy you to show me how, by the legislation
of this house, you can add one farthing to the wealth of this country?
That springs from the industry and intelligence of the people of this
country." In conclusion, Mr. Cobden called upon the protectionists
cheerfully to make concessions for the good of the community. The debate
was closed by Lord George Bentinck, who condemned the proposition of
government as vicious in principle, and likely to be deeply injurious,
not only to agriculturists, but to all the great interests of the
country, On a division, the amendment was negatived by a majority of
three hundred and seven against two hundred and forty.

This great fact was now apparent to all men. The Conservatives, however,
did not yet give up the struggle, though they fought as men in despair.
Having failed in defeating the measure in the whole, they sought to
defeat it in its details. On the house resolving itself into committee
on the customs' acts, amendment after amendment was moved by them; and
when these were all negatived, they commenced another struggle to defeat
the second reading. A division on the second reading took place on the
28th of March, which was carried by a majority of three hundred and
two against two hundred and fourteen. Nor yet was the battle won. As if
exhausted by the struggle, both parties rested awhile from the strife;
but it recommenced on the 5th of May, on a motion that the house resolve
itself into a committee of the whole house on the corn-importation bill.
This was opposed by Lord George Bentinck, who was considered as the
champion of protection; he moved that the speaker do leave the chair
that day three months. No division took place on his lordship's
amendment, and the house resolved into committee on the corn-law
importation act. Amendments were moved on some of its clauses, but they
were all either negatived or withdrawn; and by the 9th of May the report
was brought up. Sir G. Burrell moved that the report should be received
that day six months; but after a long discussion, which was more
distinguished for personal attacks than for sober argument, the
amendment was withdrawn, and the bill was ordered to be printed, and
to be read a third time on the 12th. The third reading was on that
day moved by Sir James Graham, and the final struggle in the house of
commons on this great subject commenced. The Marquis of Granby moved
that the bill be read a third time that day six months; and in doing
so, he did not believe the measure would pass the legislature; but if
it did, he hoped their anticipations of evil would prove inaccurate,
and that the anticipations of Sir Robert Peel, however vague, would be
verified. The debate on the third reading continued by adjournment up
to the 16th of May, its opponents putting forth all their strength to
defeat it--arguing and pleading for the corn-laws as though the very
existence of England depended on their continuance.

On a division, the third reading was carried by a majority of three
hundred and twenty-seven against two hundred and twenty-nine, and the
bill was then read a third time, and passed amidst loud cheering.

The report of the customs' duties bill was brought up in the commons on
Monday the 18th of May, and though strenuously opposed by Lord George
Bentinck, and others of his party, was agreed to without a division;
and on the morrow it was read a third time without either discussion or
division, and passed.

On the 18th the corn-importation bill was introduced into the lords
by the Duke of Wellington, who moved its first reading. The Duke of
Richmond said that he could not permit the bill to be read even a first
time without entering his protest against it. The first reading was
carried without a division, the Duke of Richmond being the only peer who
expressed dissent. The Duke of Wellington gave notice that he would
move the second reading of the bill on Monday the 25th. This motion
was introduced, however, on that day by the Earl of Ripon. The Duke of
Richmond moved that the bill be read a second time that day six months;
feeling it to be a measure likely to inflict a deadly blow upon
British agriculture and the national greatness. The debate continued
by adjournment up to Thursday the 28th of May, most of the peers
being anxious to deliver their sentiments on this great subject.
Lord Ash-burton justified the principles of protection. The system of
protection, he said, was founded upon three grounds: it was necessary
in order to secure industry; it secured us against dependence on foreign
countries for food; and there were peculiar burdens upon the land, for
which landowners were entitled to compensation. The debate was closed by
the Duke of Wellington, who justified the measure in an emphatic speech,
and warned their lordships, that if they rejected it, it would only be
to have another brought before them. On a division, the second reading
was carried by a majority of two hundred and eleven against one hundred
and sixty-four.

The customs' duties bill was read a first time, after the stern
opposition of the Duke of Richmond, in the house of lords, on the 20th
of May. The second reading was moved by the Earl of Dalhousie on the 4th
of June; in doing which is lordship stated generally the ground on which
it was based. The noble lord went through the detail of the several
articles of the tariff on which reductions were proposed, and concluded
by repudiating the notion that the measure was one of pure free trade,
and therefore did not go far enough: it was no free-trade measure at
all; but one for the removal of prohibitive, and the gradual repeal of
protective duties. The Duke of Richmond said, that after the decision to
which their lordships had come on the corn-importation bill, he felt it
was little use to trouble them with any remarks; and therefore he should
content himself with moving that the bill be read a second time that
day six months. After a few words from the Earl of Wicklow and Lord
Ashburton against the bill, and from Earl Grey and Lord Monteagle in its
support, the bill was read a second time, and ordered to be committed on
Monday week. Before proceeding with the tariff, however, their lordships
went into committee on the corn-importation bill. The first night of
the committee's sitting was Friday, June 12th; and the opponents of the
measure brought forward so many amendments, that the several clauses
were not gone through till the 19th. On that day, after all the
amendments had been negatived, it was arranged that the report should
be brought up on the 22nd; that afterwards the tariff bill should be
proceeded with, as far as possible, and continued on the following
day; and that on the 25th the corn-bill should be read a third time. In
accordance with this agreement the report of the corn-bill was brought
up on the following Monday, and the house went into committee upon the
tariff-bill. Several amendments were proposed and negatived, and
at length the opponents of the measure gave up the contest. On the
following day the bill was reported without amendments, and ordered to
be read a third time on Thursday with the corn-importation bill. Upon
the motion for the third reading of these bills several noble lords,
in opposition, urged their previous arguments, and entered their solemn
protests against them; but all opposition was futile: they passed their
final stage triumphantly, and on the morrow, Friday, the 26th, the royal
assent was given to them by commission, and they became laws.

Thus triumphed Sir Robert Peel. Yet with his triumph as a patriot came
his downfall as a minister. Simultaneous with these great and twin
measures, the corn-bill and the customs-bill, he had brought in a
protection life-bill for Ireland. The premier, in bringing in this bill,
was aware that the Whigs, who had supported him in his great free-trade
measures, would be to a man adverse to any coercive measure for that
country; and his only hope of success was that those of his recent
colleagues whom he had so grievously offended by striking the final blow
at their darling measure, the corn-laws, would forget their resentment,
and act according to their conscience, in a matter which, under ordinary
circumstances, and according to their usual policy, would have obtained
their hearty support. That hope was vain. They, his former stanch
adherents, considered that government had forfeited all claim to their
confidence, and therefore declined "to supply them with unconstitutional
powers." The protection life-bill was thrown out by the commons--the
Tories uniting with the Whigs, that they might crush a man whom they had
idolized--by a majority of seventy-three, although it was urged by stern
necessity, and enforced with the whole weight of a triumphant cabinet.
On the day after the triumph of the corn-bill and the customs-bill,
the premier went down to Osborne-house to tender the resignation of
his ministry, in his retirement he carried with him the sympathy and
admiration of the great body of the people. All felt that he had not
only benefited England by these great measures, but all the world. Nor
must the name of Cobden be forgotten in this achievement. The retiring
premier, indeed, nobly attributed the whole triumph to that long-tried
champion of free-trade. But the names of Peel and Cobden will ever
be associated in the annals of the country, as the names of those who
struck the final blow at laws which enriched the few at the cost of the
whole population.


CHAPTER LVIII.

{VICTORIA. 1846}

     Position of the Conservative Party on the Defection of Sir
     Robert Peel, and the Parliamentary   Success of his  Free-
     Trade  Measures..... Formation of a Whig Cabinet..... The
     Sugar Duties..... Dreadful Condition   of Ireland.....
     Decline of Mr. O'Connell..... The Young Ireland Leaders.....
     Colonial Affairs..... War with the Sikhs..... Foreign
     Affairs..... Coolness with France..... Spanish Marriages


POSITION OF THE CONSERVATIVE PARTY ON THE DEFECTION OF SIR ROBERT PEEL.
AND THE PARLIAMENTARY SUCCESS OF HIS FREE-TRADE MEASURES.

{A.D. 1846}

The adoption of a free-trade policy by Sir Robert Peel disorganised the
conservative party, then more frequently designated Protectionist. The
chief difficulty arose from the scarcity of talent in its ranks, and,
therefore, the apparent impossibility of procuring a leader. At last
the commons and the country were startled by the announcement of a
new conservative chief in the person of Lord George Bentinck. So
unfavourable were the antecedents--at all events, the immediate
antecedents--of this nobleman, that the announcement of his name as
the leader of the Protectionists excited the mirth of parliament, which
found a loud echo in the country. After the public press had lampooned
him--the _Times_ scarcely condescending to launch its thunders,
only allowing a distant rumble to be heard--after the _Examiner_ had
exhausted its pungent and polished satire, and _Punch_ had caricatured
the noble member for King's Lynn, and while yet his own party scarcely
ventured to hope anything from his leadership, Lord George proved
himself an orator and a debater, a party tactician, and an energetic,
vigilant, intelligent chief of opposition. Perhaps no public man
ever burst so suddenly upon the house of commons as a leading party
politician. He had been well known as a member of parliament, had
conciliated general esteem, and won extensive respect, as a private
gentleman, from both sides of the house; but as a politician he had
scarcely been noticed, nor had he taken any pains to make himself
felt in debate: his irruption, so to speak, upon the ranks of the
ministerialists, was sudden and effective. Mr. Disraeli has written an
elaborate memoir of the noble lord, which exaggerates his capabilities
and achievements, and in a style less eloquent than showy, holds up his
policy to the admiration of his country. Mr. Disraeli, however, pays in
many respects a tribute that is no more than just to the memory of Lord
George, and his book affords material for an impartial judgment. At
that period the noble lord was a distinguished patron of the turf: all
England knew him as a sporting gentleman, a first-rate judge of horses,
and an extensive winner on the course. In allusion to his habits
in these respects, it became a popular sneer that the Conservatives
required "a stable mind," after the versatile performances of Sir Robert
Peel, and they had at last found such in Lord George. But although his
whole mind had apparently been given up to the turf, it was not actually
so. He had been a member of parliament for eighteen years, and was a
shrewd observer of party, as he was of men and things in general life.
Before entering parliament he had for three years served as private
secretary to Mr. Canning, whose sagacity was seldom at fault in the
selection of persons of indisputable ability. The great statesman was
connected with Lord George, for he married the sister of the Duke of
Portland. The young nobleman's powers of observation were such, that he
was not likely to be in constant and intimate communication with such
a man as Canning, without gleaning some political intelligence and
experience. After Lord George entered parliament he remained for some
time in the army, but gradually abandoned his military tastes for those
of the turf, and his speculations in that direction were carried out
on a scale of unprecedented magnitude. Politically, his sympathies and
opinions appear to have been what might be designated Conservative-Whig.
When the partisans of Mr. Canning left the Duke of Wellington's
administration, Lord George Bentinck ranged himself in opposition. Under
Earl Grey's administration, he sat on the ministerial side of the
house. The Mends of Mr. Canning, who were associated with Lord Grey,
entertained high opinions of Lord George's talents for official and
administrative service, so that he was requested to accept office,
but he declined. These offers were repeatedly renewed, under the same
auspices, and as often rejected. He desired to be unfettered in his
parliamentary position, and freely gave up the chances of Downing Street
for those of the race-course. He voted for the reform bill, and afforded
a cordial and constant support to that and nearly every measure of the
whig administration, until Lord Stanley abandoned the party. To that
noble lord he was personally and politically much attached, and of Mr.
Spring Rice, afterwards Lord Monteagle, he also had a high opinion; but
no friendship nor influence was sufficient to retard what may be called
his retrograde course: like his friend, Lord Stanley, he became less and
less a Whig, and finally stood in the foreground of Conservatism. He was
a warm supporter of the Irish Roman Catholics, but did not appear ever
to have understood their political tactics. His sympathy for what
is termed Pusey-ism may have accounted for his leanings to the Irish
Romanist party, although in this respect, according to Mr. Disraeli, "he
was for the Established Church, and nothing more." According to the
same author he was a Whig of 1688. It is admitted that his personal
prejudices were strong; but those who allow this maintain that he had no
prejudice as to things, but examined all doctrines and theories with
a strong common sense and a clear judgment. His painstaking to inquire
after truth is much vaunted by his biographer; but his speeches as
leader of the Protectionists do not reveal this quality,--for while
no orator of the time, not even Sir Robert Peel, relied more upon
statistics, or at least made a larger use of them, no advocate of any
cause was ever more unfortunate in the data selected as groundwork for
argument. Such was the man in whom the conservative opposition found
a leader, when despairing of being again able to form an effective and
organised opposition. It was on the 27th of February, 1846, that Lord
George made his _début_ in his new capacity. His speech was excellent in
everything but its logic. Modest yet courageous in manner, plain but not
ungraceful in style, his address told upon the house. The tone, however,
was too aristocratic for the place and the times, and his arguments
proved that he had not mastered the controversy, into the midst of which
he had so chivalrously launched. He brought forward numerous details;
but his facts were, as they say in Ireland, "false facts." He had not
investigated the science of political economy, or the condition of the
nation, but had only "crammed," as they say in college phrase, for the
occasion and the controversy. He had industriously read whatever was
written, and listened to whatever was said on the side of protection,
but had not followed the counsel of an ancient adviser--_audi alteram
partem_; and the result was that even the most transparent fallacies of
the Protectionists were uttered by him with an air of serious but honest
importance, as if they were truths which he was raised up irrefragably
to establish by new and original arguments. When a free trade in corn
was at last sanctioned by the legislature, Lord George continued to
offer an industrious, courageous, and ingenious opposition, and by the
vigour of his mind and the incessant energy of his attacks, kept up the
party life of the opposition, which he resuscitated and led. Lord George
looked upon himself as the champion of a class; to save or serve the
aristocracy, irrespective of the interests of the masses of the people,
was, in his opinion, patriotism, and he was willing "to spend and be
spent" in that service. Throughout the debates on the customs bill, and
upon the measures of reduction of duties generally which Sir Robert Peel
proposed, Lord George offered an animated and pertinacious, although
unavailing opposition.

At this juncture the state of Ireland was melancholy in the extreme.
Unlawful confederacies were formed among the peasantry and small
farmers, and outrages of the most sanguinary character were perpetrated
in the open day. Disaffection pervaded the masses of the Roman Catholic
population, and language of daring menace was employed towards the
government by the popular leaders of every rank, both in and out of
parliament. Neither life nor property was safe, in any part of the
country, except where the Protestants predominated. The loyal and
peaceable petitioned for some measures of protection, and this class was
indignant that the government did not propose laws which would afford
security to the well-disposed. Sir Robert Peel listened to these
demands, and prepared a bill, known as the "life-protection bill," which
was very stringent in its nature, and proposed utterly to disarm the
whole population, except under restrictions which would not be felt by
the peaceable inhabitants, but would reach effectually the disaffected
masses. This bill was at first supported by both the Whigs and Tories,
acting under a sense of the common danger to society in Ireland, which
would exist so long as the refractory populace had easy access to arms.
The efforts to procure both fire and side-arms, all over the country,
were extraordinary; this fact alarmed the Whigs, and made them feel
disposed to support Sir Robert: the Conservatives were always ready
to entertain repressive measures for Ireland. Both parties at last
perceived that the tendency of the bill was to strengthen Sir Robert's
government, and, therefore, although they supported the first reading,
they determined to give it, in its future stages, a determined
opposition. The ground taken by Lord John Russell, as the whig leader,
was, that if Ireland was criminal she was also oppressed; that measures
of coercion and redress should proceed _pari passu_. He would not
support repression, unless accompanied by relief. Lord George Bentinck,
as the conservative leader, took different ground. He admitted that the
state of Ireland was such as to require extra constitutional remedies,
but such ought not to be entrusted to any but constitutional ministers;
that Sir Robert did not advise her majesty in the spirit of the
constitution, and he (Lord George) would not therefore confide so large
a responsibility to his administrative discretion. The union of the two
parties ensured the minister's defeat, although the first reading was
carried after seven nights' debate. Sir W. Somerville, then a popular
and influential member of the whig party, proposed an amendment on the
9th of June, when the bill was brought up for a second reading; the
amendment was its postponement for six months, and was carried by a
large majority. This decided the fate of the Peel administration. During
the debate Lord George Bentinck gave an unhappy proof of his inaccuracy
of statement and party spirit. He accused Sir Robert Peel of having made
up his mind in favour of Roman Catholic emancipation, before he turned
Mr. Canning out of office on that very question. This allegation was
made in terms of the bitterest reproach, and was placed in such a form
and light before the house, as, if true, must have left the impression
that Sir Robert was a man destitute of all principle and honour. The
following Friday, the 12th of June, the honourable baronet exculpated
himself in one of the happiest speeches which he ever delivered in
parliament. On this occasion Mr. Roebuck defended Sir Robert, and
assailed Lord George with much justice and more acrimony; but the speech
was well received by the house, and by the country, and increased the
honourable member's reputation as a debater and a politician. Mr. Hume,
then in the zenith of his influence, followed up the blows so heavily
dealt by Sir Robert and Mr. Roebuck. The efforts of Lord George's
followers to cover his disastrous defeat were feeble and fruitless.
It was not until the 20th that the amendment proposed by Sir William
Somerville on the 9th was carried, and on the 29th the announcements
were made in the lords and commons that ministers had resigned. The Duke
of Wellington made it known to the lords, as the ministerial leader
in that house, and never was a similar communication so laconically
delivered. Sir Robert made a long speech, vindicating his policy and
his personal consistency, and declaring his unabated confidence in the
measures in favour of free-trade, which he had been enabled to carry,
and which he averred would bring peace, contentment, and prosperity to
the country. The farewell address of the minister was rendered still
more remarkable than it otherwise would have been, by his announcing
that the Oregon dispute with the United States had been amicably
adjusted. This was well received by the house and by the country,
although, perhaps, neither had given such attention to the nature of the
differences between the two countries on that subject, or the character
of the adjustment. The foreign policy of Sir Robert had neither been
firm nor dignified, and the basis of the settlement of the Oregon
dispute was simply concession on the part of England. There can be no
great merit in a minister preserving peace by giving up everything,
or nearly everything, for which he might have to go to war. On
this principle our foreign politics would be easy enough to all
administrations, and the only talent really necessary would be, the
ability to persuade parliament that, in conceding what was justly ours,
we saved the expense of defending it, and that such a course was wise,
honourable, and statesmanlike. The spirit infused into our foreign
policy by Sir Robert, and which the Earl of Aberdeen too faithfully
represented, proved, afterwards, costly alike to our resources and our
honour.

On the resignation of Sir Robert, her majesty sent for Lord John
Russell, and confided to him the task of forming an administration. His
lordship succeeded in this object, and presented himself to parliament
as first lord of the treasury and prime-minister, with Lord Cottenham as
lord-chancellor, Lord Lansdowne as president of the council, Mr. Charles
Wood as chancellor of the exchequer, and the three chief secretaries of
state--home, foreign, and colonial--were Sir G. Grey, Lord Palmerston,
and Earl Grey.

The public were not displeased with the formation of a whig ministry,
although, had the parliament been dissolved upon the question simply
of Sir Robert or Lord John, the former would have had an overwhelming
majority. Some discontent was expressed with the prevalence of the Grey
family in the cabinet--three members of that connexion in three of the
principal offices gave too much patronage and influence to a single
family, especially as their nepotism had brought discredit upon the late
earl, even in the height of his popularity. The chancellorship of the
exchequer, and the home and colonial secretaryships, being now in the
hands of this aristocratic house, the departments, it was alleged,
would be overwhelmed with scions and _proteges_ of the noble lord, the
representative of the race. Some of the liberal journals sneered at the
administration as "the Grey government" from the beginning, and
prepared the minds of the more radical portion of the people for an
administrative failure. The conservative press caught up the tone of
the Radicals, and ridiculed the new whig government in similar terms,
affecting to feel a constitutional alarm and jealousy at the prevailing
influence of "the Grey sept."

When Lord John appeared in the house as the head of the government,
Mr. Duncombe, one of the members for Fins-bury, a popular and patriotic
commoner, challenged the premier to make a full and explicit statement
of the principles upon which he intended to administer the affairs of
the country. This appeal met with a noble response in a clear, manful
enunciation of free-trade principles, justice to Ireland, peace as far
as that could be maintained in justice and honour, and the "maintenance
and extension of religious liberty, which, together with its civil
liberty, had made England conspicuous as one of the greatest nations of
the world."

The first parliamentary measure introduced by the Whigs was a plan for
the better regulation of the sugar duties. On the 20th of July Lord
John introduced his plan, which he professed would meet the wishes
and expectations of the producer, the consumer, and the treasury. His
proposal was substantially a protective duty of twenty shillings the
cwt. upon all foreign Muscovada sugar, to be diminished annually in a
certain ratio, so that in 1851 it would be only fifteen shillings and
sixpence, and after that year permanently fourteen shillings. This was
a great advantage to the consumers as compared with the old prohibitory
duty of sixty-three shillings, and the protective duty of twenty-three
shillings and fourpence. Lord John met the objections of "the negroes'
friends," as to the admission of slave-grown sugar, by showing that the
exclusion of such sugar was impracticable, inasmuch as by treaty, states
producing slave-grown sugar were entitled to demand its admission
under "the most favoured nation clause." To conciliate the West-India
interest, his lordship announced that it was his intention to introduce
a bill giving the queen power to assent to any act of the West-India
legislatures, modifying or abolishing the differential duties
established there in favour of British goods. As these differential
duties were only five or seven per cent., the West-India interest
considered that his lordship mocked them by a show of concession. The
whole of that interest was "up in arms," as their parliamentary and
colonial opposition, moral and political, was described. This interest
had not joined the Conservatives in resisting the repeal of the corn
laws, but, nevertheless, it now supplicated conservative support in
impeding the measures of the ministry. The English landed interest was
anxious to strengthen itself by the aid of the West-India planters and
merchants, and therefore affected to be generous, and to repay evil
by good. Lord George Bentinck's boastful words were paraded before all
monopolists to induce their co-operation with his party--"If we are a
proud aristocracy, we are proud of our honour, inasmuch as we have never
been guilty, and never can be guilty, of double-dealing with the farmers
of England, of swindling our opponents, deceiving our friends, or
betraying our constituents." The West-India party was happy to gain help
from any quarter, and joined "the farmers' friends" in adopting
Lord George Bentinck as their leader. The premier had proceeded by
"resolution," as it is constitutional to do in all measures affecting
the public revenue. When the resolution was reported, Lord George moved
as an amendment, "That in the present state of the sugar cultivation in
the East and West-India possessions, the proposed reduction of duty upon
foreign slave-grown sugar is alike unjust and impolitic, as tending to
check the advance of sugar produced by British free labour, and to
give a great additional stimulus to slave labour." In support of this
amendment the noble mover paraded a vast array of "facts and figures,"
which made a wonderful show of industry and knowledge; but his
statistical statements were illusory as his logic was unsound. The
awkward manner in which his amendment was expressed embarrassed his
arguments and those of his party, justifying the description of him in
the following passage of his memoir, written by Disraeli:--"He had not
much sustained his literary culture, and of late years, at any rate,
had not given his mind to political study." Sir Robert Peel gave the
government a qualified and hesitating support. He started so many
objections to the government measure that the opposition might have
fairly looked for his support, but he answered his speech by his vote.
In the course of his oration he predicted evils which never came to
pass, and after all that had occurred, even his own glorious triumph
in repealing the corn laws, the speech proved that he was not only an
unwilling reformer, but that he had not clear and fair convictions of
the truth of the great principles of political economy, that he was
still the man of mere political expediency, and almost as jealous
as ever of all bold attempts at theoretical or practical reform. The
support of Sir Robert, such as it was, saved the government, for on this
question, at all events, he held the balance of power. The debate
lasted through the nights of the 27th and 28th, the West-India interest
affecting great horror of slavery, and depicting the encouragement the
measure would give to that evil in terms of great and even pious alarm.
Never did a party resort more scandalously to cant and hypocrisy to
serve a purpose than this, on the memorable occasion of "the sugar
debate." The resolution was carried, and a bill embodying it rapidly
passed the commons, but was resisted in the lords with much tenacity of
purpose. This was in a considerable measure the result of a remarkable
petition presented to that house by Mr. Clarkson, of whom Mr.
Wilberforce had been a disciple. Mr. Clarkson was a philanthropist and
a Christian, but neither a political economist nor a politician. The
Bishop of Oxford proposed an amendment, on the second reading, which
would have virtually destroyed the bill; but the original motion was
carried, and the remaining stages were unobstructed.

This was a most important measure to the comfort of the people and the
commerce of the country. The government was logically and politically
right; and the Whigs left the impression upon the country, by the bill
itself, and the arguments by which they conducted it through the
house, that they had been of late successful students in the important
department of economics. A considerable stir among the wealthy and
influential body of English citizens, the Society of Friends, was
created, by the support which Mr. Bright, Mr. Crewdson, and others of
the Quakers of the north of England, gave to the sugar bill. The body
at large considered that support inconsistent with their professed
principles. Mr. Bright, and those who took his views, eloquently
defended themselves against the criticisms of the Friends, and Mr.
George Thompson, the celebrated anti-slavery lecturer, espoused their
cause with great ardour. Mr. Bright and his fellow-labourers of the
Quaker persuasion were in a minority. The great body of the Friends
disapproved of his conduct, and the old anti-slavery party throughout
the country joined in the disapprobation. Mr. Bright was not a man to
be deterred by friends or foes from pursuing a course which he thought
right, and he persisted in giving to the government a very hearty and
efficient support. The Manchester school accepted the bill with great
favour, and upheld the ministry in carrying it. Large assemblages were
convened in Manchester and the manufacturing districts, but especially
in South Lancashire, Cheshire and Staffordshire, on behalf of
the measure, and the various chambers of commerce and commercial
associations passed resolutions or sent petitions in its favour. It was
a good beginning for Lord John as premier, and conduced to the tenure of
office which he was enabled to maintain.


THE CONDITION OF IRELAND.--DISTURBED STATE OF THE COUNTRY.--DISAFFECTION
OF THE POPULACE.--FAILURE OF THE POTATOE CROP.--DISTRESS.--AGITATION BY
THE YOUNG IRELANDERS.--DECLINE OF O'CONNELL.

Some notice has been taken of the condition of Ireland as leading to the
dissolution of the Peel ministry. It is appropriate to resume here the
thread of Irish history. The affairs of that country, politically and
socially, became rapidly worse. From day to day the people of England
were startled with tidings of fierce conflicts which faction waged, the
disloyalty of the great majority of the people, the relentless cruelty
with which the Ribbon Society exacted its victims, and the continued
pressure of famine and sickness upon the physical life of the people.
Ireland, so long conversant with misery, was still to taste the cup in
all its bitterness. Everything meant for her good by the legislature
brought with it some new form of evil, or aggravated some that existed.
She had sought and obtained emancipation, but while her arms wore no
longer a manacle, she still clanked her broken chain, and with it smote
her benefactors or wounded herself. The removal of restrictions from
commerce, effected by Sir Robert Peel, she regarded as an injury; the
majority of Irishmen believed that the repeal of the corn laws was
designed to enrich England at the expense of Ireland, and that it
was the most fatal blow ever given to her agricultural and commercial
prosperity. There were many enlightened Irishmen who advocated the
repeal of the laws which made the food of the people dear;--of seven
men who met in Manchester to form the anti-corn-law association, out of
which sprang "the League," at least two were Irishmen. Perhaps the man
to whom that cause was originally indebted, more than to any other, was
Archibald Prentice of the city just named, a native of Scotland; but
among his earliest and most earnest coadjutors were Irishmen. The
merchants of the three principal cities in Ireland--Dublin, Cork,
and Belfast--favoured Sir Robert Peel's law, especially those of
the enlightened and enterprising town last named; but the Irish
agriculturists, and the inhabitants of the country generally, resented
it as a new Irish grievance! Lord George Bentinck did not misrepresent
the feeling of the Irish people towards the free-trade movement, when he
claimed the country, with some exceptions only, as on his side. Even the
educational boon, so recently accorded by parliament, was regarded as
a religious affront. "The Queen's colleges" were denounced by Mr.
O'Connell and the priests as "godless colleges." In parliament he
opposed, in Ireland he vituperated it.

A new phase of mischief gradually ripened during the year 1846.
O'Connell had taught the people habits of political organisation,
and while he had so wielded the masses thus organised as to prevent
insurrection, he kept the government in continual alarm, lest some
sudden outbreak should rend society and deluge the country with
blood. The "agitator" professed to hold the doctrine of moral force in
opposition to physical force; but while he proclaimed that the liberties
of Ireland were "not worth the shedding of one drop of blood," and in
long letters and speeches declared that whoever committed crime was his
enemy, and the enemy of Irish freedom, he palliated those crimes, when
committed, defended the criminals, shifted the blame to the Protestants,
the local authorities, the government, the law, or the Saxon; and so
wrote and spoke as was calculated to lead the perpetrators of outrage
to regard themselves as having an excuse for their crimes, in their
own condition or that of their country. The general feeling of the
disaffected in reference to Mr. O'Connell's exhortations of peace was,
that he was only sincere so far as expediency dictated; that he had no
other objection to physical force than his conviction that the prospects
of success did not warrant recourse to it. Accordingly, whilst a great
display was made of carrying out his "moral force" policy, and his
"pacificators" were the ostensible preservers of the peace,--taking the
credit themselves, or claiming it for their chief, of preventing an open
insurrection,--murder, incendiarism, assault, and religious persecution
were carried out in detail. When any were arraigned, no scruples were
entertained as to the means by which conviction might be prevented;
perjury, intimidation, and assassination were among these
instrumentalities. When convicted, the criminal was regarded as
suffering for his religion and country, although the crime for which he
was condemned was some cruel and cowardly assassination, or attempt
to commit such. "The liberal press," as the newspapers devoted to the
agitation were designated, was filled with extenuations or denials of
the culprit's guilt, and the most vengeful attacks were made upon all
who sought to enforce the laws, and preserve peace and life from the
ruffian hands of the Ribbonmen, and "the moral force agitators." Lord
John Russell has often resorted to _finesse_ in his parliamentary
tactics which has not always done him honour, but he never erred in this
respect more egregiously than when, withdrawing the Irish arms bill, he
reported that the law had its unimpeded course, that juries did their
duty, and that crime was effectually restrained. So far from juries
doing their duty, it was difficult in the provinces to obtain
convictions, where a portion of the jury were O'Connellites, if the
person before them was arraigned for an agrarian offence, or an
outrage against the persons of those who were loyal. Neither Whigs, nor
Protestants who were politicians of a school yet more free, nor liberal
Roman Catholics who respected the law, or enforced their rights as
landlords, were spared by the secret societies, any more than the most
rabid Tories or the most flaming Orangemen. A reign of terror prevailed
through the country; the perpetrators of outrage were everywhere, and
the popular masses sympathised with them. An illustration of the state
of things then prevailing was afforded in the following paragraph from
the _Illustrated London News_ of the 21st of February, 1846:--

"On Friday (last week) Bryan Seery was executed at Mullingar. The
conviction took place under the following circumstances:--Some time
since Sir Francis Hopkins was shot at by a man in Westmeath; Sir Francis
tried to seize the assassin, but he escaped; and afterwards Seery was
captured. The sole witness to the prisoner's identity with the assassin
was the prosecutor: the defence was the common Irish defence--_alibi_,
which was of course sworn to stoutly, as it always is in Ireland. One
jury could not agree to the verdict, two Roman Catholics standing out
against conviction: a second jury condemned the man: efforts to procure
commutation of his sentence failed, and he was left for execution.
Seery, at the place of execution, solemnly denied his guilt. A
circumstance highly characteristic of the feeling of the public
occurred. The morning was calm--the sounding of bugles and peeling of
drums were heard in all directions: there was a perfect cessation of
business in the town. About ten o'clock all the shops were closed,
and not a single human being was to be seen in the streets--not one
individual came in from the country. Thus the people determined to mark
their opinion of this awful tragedy, for all regard Seery as a martyr.
At eleven o'clock the military were paraded before the gaol, and not one
human being appeared before the scaffold but themselves and the
police. Even the magistrates of the county stayed away--not one of
them appeared, except Mr. Uniacke, who walked up and down with Captain
Despard. Under the imposing head of the 'Mullingar Tragedy,' the
reporter of the _Dublin Freeman_ furnishes that journal with a long and
highly-coloured account of the interment of Bryan Seery. The melancholy
spectacle took place on Sunday, in the presence of vast multitudes of
the country people, whose numbers were estimated by the writer to amount
to fifty thousand or sixty thousand souls."

On other occasions the populace attended the execution of criminals in
large numbers, and exhibited their sympathy by demonstrations of respect
and of regret for their fate, speaking of them as "the blessed martyrs"
for their religion, or their country, or both. An execution took place
at Nenagh, in the county of Tipperary, early in June, which was thus
noticed in a paper, neither unfavourable to the rights of the people,
nor the exercise of the utmost clemency on the part of the government
towards the misguided:--"Three men were executed at Nenagh on Friday
(last week), pursuant to their sentences; two--namely, Patrick Hayes and
Patrick Rice--for conspiring to murder the late Mr. Patrick Clarke; and
one, named William Fogarty--for shooting at Mr. M'Donald, a steward in
the slate quarries. An immense multitude collected to witness the scene.
The three men were accompanied to the drop by Roman Catholic clergymen.
They died after a brief struggle, having made no public confession of
their crimes. A large police force of one hundred and fifty men, and a
company of the 72nd depot, comprised the guard in attendance. All was
quiet and peaceable, says a local paper, and nothing heard but the
moanings of the friends of the culprits. After the usual time of
hanging, the bodies were lowered into coffins, and given to the
relations. The long respite obtained by these men whilst various points
of law were urged in their favour, gave much additional interest to
their cases."

Executions did not, however, extinguish the prevalence of crime, nor
were the precautions of the executive sufficient to wrest the weapon
from the murderous hand. A Galway paper, in "the liberal interest,"
recorded a murder near the junction of that county with the county of
Clare, immediately after the execution at Nenagh, and various others of
a similar character throughout the country. This atrocity was very much
in character with those which disgraced the whole south and west of
Ireland, and which, to a less extent, took place in the north and
north-eastern portions of the land:--"We regret to state that, on the
night of Thursday (last week), a barbarous murder was committed at a
village near Woodford, in this county. The unfortunate object of the
assassin's vengeance was a man named Pat Hill. Two persons came into
his house, and brought him out of his bed to a place about forty yards
distant, and there inflicted no less than forty-two bayonet wounds
on his person, besides a fracture of the skull. His wife, hearing his
screams, went to his assistance, and, having begged for mercy, she was
told by the heartless ruffians that if she did not go away, she would
herself be treated in a like manner. Having completed their purpose,
the miscreants, who are unknown, walked off, and their victim almost
immediately expired. An inquest was held at Portumna, when a verdict of
'Wilful murder' was returned against persons unknown. Deceased was in
rather comfortable circumstances, and bore a most excellent character."

While disaffection, secret societies, fanatical intolerance, and
wide-spread personal outrage cursed unhappy Ireland, the failure of the
potato crop intensified every other form of evil to which the country
was subjected. Very early in the year it was obvious to intelligent
observers that the failure of 1845 would be exceeded in 1846. The
distress developed itself very early. In February the Rev. W. B.
Townend, rector of Aghadda, in the diocess of Cloyne, county of Cork,
published a letter, in which he thus described the sufferings and the
prospects of the people:--"In this part of Ireland we are in a frightful
state--the humbler classes are all living on the contaminated potato;
the sides of fields and gardens literally covered with rotten ones,
thrown away. The detail of destruction is endless. That employment
should be wanted for the people, while one-third of Ireland is as
much waste as the woods in Canada, and the rest badly cultivated, not
affording half labour, is a strange anomaly."

Later in the year the Rev. J. B. Tyrwhitt, an English clergyman of
the Established Church, settled in Keny, published an account of the
sufferings and prospects of the people of the south and west of Munster,
truly appalling. The reverend gentleman wrote in the celebrated Vale
of Iverah, where the O'Connells held property, and exercised an almost
absolute sway:--"The prospects of the people of this very poor barony,
and all along from the River Kenmare, Sneem, Darrynane, to Cahirciveen,
and thence towards Killorglin, is harrowing and startling. The whole
potato crop is literally destroyed, while over a very wide surface the
oat crop presents an unnatural lilac tinge to the eye; at the same
time, in too many instances, the head is found flaccid to the touch, and
possessing no substance. The barley crop, too, in many places, exhibits
the effect of a powerful blight. In some places, also, where turnips
have been grown, they present--as, indeed, has been the case in other
parts of the county--a healthier exterior in top and skin, but, on being
opened, are found deeply impregnated with a taint similar to that which
has smitten the potato, to such an extent, that one cannot stand in the
blackened fields without being overpowered by the offensive effluvia."

From the county of Clare statements arrived in London, if possible,
more appalling. Early in April pestilence manifested itself in various
places, and the county of Tipperary was disturbed by famine riots,
independent of the normal disturbances which subjected that county to
such misery, and earned for it so terrible a reputation. At Clonmel
food riots assumed a formidable appearance, and the military had to
guard the flour mills. The Roman Catholic clergy exerted themselves
successfully to soothe the minds of the peasantry, and prevent that
increase of their sufferings, which would result from the plunder of
private property. The peasantry of Ireland were not addicted to robbery,
and whatever outrages fanaticism, political and religious, might goad
them to commit, the necessities of their famishing wives and children
alone could cause them to resort to plunder. Thus, at a large and
peaceable meeting of the peasantry in the county of Galway, at the end
of April, they made this declaration:--"If employment be not immediately
given, we can no longer stand the distress under which we are
suffering." Of course it was necessary to put down tumult and protect
property, and very painful were the duties which in consequence devolved
upon the civil and military power. _Ex uno disce omnes_. At Kilsheelan,
between the counties of Tipperary and Waterford, an occurrence took
place, which was described in the language of one of the leading
journals of the south of Ireland in the following terms:--"On Thursday
morning, in consequence of information received by the magistrates,
they very prudently had cars stationed in the barracks for the
prompt conveyance of the troops in case of necessity; and subsequent
proceedings will show how very judicious and prudent their arrangements
were. In a short time an express arrived in town stating that an
immense mob was plundering the boats at Kilsheelan, within four miles of
Clonmel, and forthwith a party of the 33rd got on the cars and proceeded
to the scene of outrage, together with a party of the 1st Royal
Dragoons, under the command of Major Galloway. Mr. J. Bagwell, Mr. W.
Riall, Major Shaw, and Sub-inspector Fosberry accompanied them, and when
within a short distance of the scene of plunder, word reached them that
the robbery going on was most extensive. Mr. Fosberry and a mounted
policeman immediately galloped on, and when they reached the spot, the
scene which met their view is more easily imagined than described. An
immense multitude were plundering the boats; a vast quantity of Indian
corn, the property of Mr. Going, of Caher, was destroyed or made off
with, and a quantity of wheat, the property of Mr. T. Hughes, was
also stolen and destroyed. The military quickly came up, and a regular
engagement took place. Stones were firing in all directions--several
soldiers were struck; Mr. Fosberry received a blow of a stone in the
leg, and it was not until some time had elapsed that this lawless rabble
were subdued, and thirteen of them taken prisoners and brought into our
gaol. Nothing could exceed the coolness of our magistrates, officers,
and soldiers during this rencontre, and we are happy to say that a
portion of the wheat was retaken."

Such was the state of Ireland up to the harvest time of 1846, when,
unhappily, all the fears of men, such as have been quoted, and the
predictions of Sir Robert Peel, were fulfilled. There was another
failure of the harvest; the crops of potatoes and oats suffered to
such an extent as to increase, many fold, all the miseries previously
experienced, and the dangers previously apprehended. Five millions,
five hundred thousand tons of potatoes, and five millions two hundred
thousand quarters of oats, below the average, was produced that harvest.
The estimated loss in money, from the deficient produce of the year, was
sixteen millions pounds sterling!

The efforts to mitigate these evils were manifold. Subscriptions were
raised in every part of the British Isles, and, indeed, in every part
of the British empire. From various places on the continent, especially
France, donations were transmitted in either money or food. The Sultan
of Turkey sent a generous contribution to the common stock of relief.
From the United States of America supplies also came. The world might
be represented as laid under contribution to relieve the miseries of
Ireland. The government also made great exertions. Sir Robert Peel's
administration made secret and extensive purchases of Indian corn, which
were sold, or distributed gratuitously, according to circumstances. By
donations for public works, and "general presentments," Sir Robert Peel
also prepared for the coming disaster. He had expended in this way more
than eight hundred thousand pounds, a little more than the half of which
had been repaid by rates levied in Ireland under the powers intrusted
to the grand juries. Lord John Russell, soon after he passed his
sugar duties bill, made proposals to parliament calculated to meet
the distress as it then existed, and in some measure to anticipate the
relief which he foresaw would be required. He proposed to empower the
lord-lieutenant to summon sessions of counties and of baronies, to
consider the propriety of making public works for the relief of the
poor, and to give to those sessions, under certain circumstances,
authority to determine upon what works were desirable or necessary,
which the board ot works would upon such decision execute. The imperial
treasury was to make advances for carrying on these works, to be repaid
in ten years at three and a half per cent, interest. Grants of £50,000
each would be made to certain poor districts which would be unable
to repay advances. His lordship moved resolutions embodying these
proposals, which were carried, and a bill founded upon them passed
through both houses with the utmost rapidity. The introduction of these
measures seemed to produce a good effect on Ireland, for crime and
outrage abated. The ministers took advantage of this circumstance to
claim great merit for their administration, and, on the 28th of August,
when parliament was prorogued by commission, the speech delivered
ascribed to her majesty great satisfaction in the relief so cordially
provided by parliament for the Irish poor, and the beneficial effects
produced. These tokens of returning peace were as the morning dew, which
soon passes away, and the measures of parliament, notwithstanding their
magnitude, were soon proved to be inadequate. The government acted,
however, with generosity and courage, although their wisdom and
administrative aptitude were not equally conspicuous. During a portion
of the interval of the reassembling of parliament, in January, 1847, the
government, unauthorised by parliament, expended a million sterling
per month. The cabinet felt assured that parliament would indemnify and
England approve. Immense supplies of Indian corn and other articles of
food were carried by government steamers to such points of the coast
as were convenient for their prompt dispersion to the interior. The
labourers on the public works were paid from one shilling to one
shilling and sixpence per day. In the county of Mayo, where the distress
was peculiarly aggravated, nearly half a million sterling was expended
in public works, in districts the Ordnance valuation of which was little
more than half that amount. These works were unproductive, and baronies
were pledged to their whole value, some for a year, and others for
several years, in repayment of the grants, although the plan of
repayment to the government was, that only half the amount advanced
should be refunded. Many private individuals, both in Ireland and
in Great Britain, exhibited a noble generosity; and the heroic
self-sacrifice of clergymen, medical men, and others, in the midst of
the famine and plague-stricken people, cannot be too much commended. The
liberality and exertions of the Irish residents in England and Scotland
was much to their own honour and to the reputation of their country.
Notwithstanding all these exertions, the aid of the government and
of private individuals was abused, and the annals of the world do not
contain any narrative of ingratitude and selfishness more base than
those which record the transactions of certain classes of the Irish
people during that terrible crisis. Many of the landed gentry took
occasion to have their own fences and private roads repaired at the
public expense, and there were few parts of the country where "public
works" did not mean improvements of the domains, and the creation of
roads to the mansions of the gentry. The Roman Catholic chapels, and the
ways of access to them, were also treated as "public works." The
conduct of "the Board of Works" was far from unimpeachable, and men
distinguished in her majesty's service cut a poor figure in connection
with the inquiries and discussions to which the modes of managing the
public relief ultimately led. The moral effect of the charity was most
injurious to the country, whatever its material advantage in the urgency
of the occasion. This was exemplified in many ways. The peasantry were
unwilling to bestow a fair amount of labour upon works of acknowledged
utility, although paid nearly double the ordinary rates of wages; they
lazily preferred public works, so that there was a scarcity of hands to
gather in the imperfect harvest until the government partially withdrew
its competition from the labour market. Considerable numbers of farmers,
some of whom held as many as sixty acres of land, applied for tickets
from the relief committees, and were placed upon the public works, thus
drawing off the money from the legitimate objects of aid. Small farmers
in numbers received gratuities of Indian corn and other food, whose
means were such as ought in common decency and common honesty to
have prevented such an application. The local committees acted with
partiality and injustice, and numbers of the peasantry perished of
starvation, while the greedy, who were not necessitous, preyed upon the
public charity. In the county Clare, five thousand persons were struck
off the lists of those who were employed by the labour rate, and who, it
is scarcely necessary to add, rendered no return for the money they had
received, for the ostensible labour was in these cases a sham. The most
scandalous of all the exhibitions of want of probity which the crisis
developed was the revival of efforts to procure arms. The peasantry,
farmers, town-population--all of every rank--sought to possess
themselves of weapons of war, especially firearms. The demand for powder
and percussion-caps was as eager as for weapons. Birmingham was kept
busy; every hand in the gun-making trades there was employed; Sheffield
was also labouring at sword cutlery, and in the manufacture of daggers
and bayonets; while the smithies of Ireland were extensively engaged in
the manufacture of pike heads. The money expended by benevolent persons
and by the government on the vast scale which the emergency and a
noble compassion dictated, was employed to procure arms which those who
purchased them intended to turn upon the hands that fed them as soon
as opportunity allowed. Whatever thanks might be felt by the peasantry
towards those who on the spot gave of their private store to mitigate
the pangs of the sufferers, no gratitude was entertained to the British
public or to the government. Starving Ireland armed to strike down her
benefactors with weapons procured by the misuse of the boon whicli these
benefactors had extended. However painful it may be to relate the story
of such turpitude, truth constrains it: the Irish peasant begged, that
he might arm against the charitable hand that succoured him. Persons
actually perished leaving some, money, with which surviving relatives,
in the depths of their misery, purchased arms. It was thought that no
other opportunity so favourable would arise to turn the gold of the
Saxon into steel, which might be pointed against his own breast. The
object most at heart with the famishing crowds was the ascendancy
of their religion, to be accomplished by the subjugation of British
authority; for this they famished and bought muskets and horse-pistols,
powder and percussion caps, old swords and bayonets. To such an extent
was this carried that in Clonmel, a town of about 18,000 inhabitants,
and where the people rioted for food, as already recorded, nearly twelve
hundred stand of arms were sold in a few days. These were purchased
by the silver which the government Board of Works had paid in the
charitable employment of the people on non-productive labour.

Much difficulty arose, in the distribution of gratuitous supplies
of food, from the routine of the public offices. So complex were the
details which the under-officials were obliged to observe, that men
actually perished while a useless routine correspondence was being
conducted. It was satirically said by an English observer, "the delivery
of a few quarters of English corn to those who want it requires as much
correspondence and documentary forms as a chancery suit."

The refusal of grand juries to "present" was another obstacle to the
prompt relief of the people. They were unwilling to carry into force the
presentment act, because the money advanced should be one-half repaid,
and, while held as a loan, be chargeable with interest. These bodies,
which refused presentments on grounds that it was not desirable or
necessary to make them, were amongst the most clamorous in the kingdom
for their share of patronage in dispensing the money and food for which
no repayment was to be made.


POLITICAL AGITATION.--YOUNG IRELAND.

During the progress of all this misery and turbulence, and while the
government required to put forth all its energies to mitigate the one
and suppress the other, Ireland was torn by political factions, and
the voice of party was never for a moment silent. On previous pages the
reader will find the state of Irish parties depicted as they stood in
1845. Throughout the year 1846 some new phases of the political spirit
of the people were presented. O'Connell still declared that the only
remedy for Ireland was the repeal of the union; and that while he gave a
modified support to a whig government, so long as it sincerely attempted
the melioration of Irish circumstances, he merely did so to prove that
he was not a partisan, and in the hope of eventually bringing all men
to believe that no effectual redress for the wrongs of Ireland was to be
expected from the imperial legislature--that Ireland's only hope lay in
"a native parliament." This the great agitator declared he would obtain
by moral force only, if the people of Ireland abstained from rebellion,
and preserved the moral attitude of a united demand for the repeal of
the legislative union between Great Britain and Ireland. Gradually there
arose in "the Repeal Association" a more spirited section, which went
by the designation of "Young Ireland." These men laughed at O'Connell's
moral force doctrines, or denounced them with disdain. At first they
professed unbounded respect for himself, and an approval of his aims,
but an irreconcileable antipathy to his measures. They maintained the
right of all men to use arms in defence or in the assertion of liberty;
proclaimed that Ireland was too noble a country, and the Irish too fine
a race, to be subjected to a provincial _status_. "Ireland a nation--not
a province," so often proclaimed by O'Connell, became in earnest the
watchword of this new and vigorous party. They derided the time-serving
and place-hunting of O'Connell's partisans, and declared that, by asking
places from the English government for his followers, O'Connell had
corrupted and dishonoured his country. They also opposed "the rent,"
which O'Connell received as a tribute from the people, and a means
of enabling him to employ various agencies for the prosecution of his
labours. He had given up the practice of his profession, to him most
lucrative, in order to devote himself wholly to what he believed to
be the good of his country, and, accordingly, the people contributed
liberally to enable him, as the leader of the Roman Catholics of
Ireland, to hold his place without indignity in the face of the
parliament and people of England. In theory this contribution was at all
events creditable to the generosity and zeal of the Irish people, and no
discredit to O'Connell himself. Nor can it be alleged with truth that
he accepted it from mercenary motives, or used it selfishly. His fortune
was small; his position required large expenditure; and it is notorious
that the money he received was not hoarded, nor used to enrich his
family, but employed for political and often charitable purposes which
had the entire approbation of the donors. The Young Irelanders, however,
at first furtively and anonymously, afterwards more or less openly,
and, finally, in the columns of the newspaper press, and in the Repeal
Association itself, stigmatised the rent as mercenary. This new party
divided influence with "the Liberator" upon the boards of the Corn
Exchange, and in public meetings generally, and was the cause of great
distraction in the councils and operations of the Repeal Association.
At first they treated O'Connell as conscientiously wrong-headed on the
subjects of moral and physical force; but they gradually widened their
ground of attack, and suggested that he was actuated by corrupt motives,
not for his own advantage, but in order to obtain places for a host of
needy adventurers who constituted what was termed his "tail." Finally,
they denounced him as a coward, and the abettor therefore of a cowardly
policy: that being afraid to place himself at the head of his armed
countrymen, he affected to abhor bloodshed, and held out a hope which he
knew to be delusive--that Ireland could conquer the restoration of her
legislature by moral, in contradistinction to physical force.

Before noticing further the effect of these differences upon O'Connell
and the Irish repeal party, it is desirable to glance at the character
and talents of the leading Young Irelanders, as these men will occupy
much prominence in the history of succeeding years. Thomas Davis was
generally alleged to be the founder of this section of the repeal party.
He was only a student in Trinity College, Dublin, when he first entered
upon political life. He imbibed early in youth a passionate love of
country, and retained it until his death, which, to the general regret,
occurred in a few years after he had entered upon political life. Mr.
Davis was a poet, although not of a high order; several specimens of
good ballad composition are amongst his remains. He cultivated classic
literature with success; as an antiquary and an historian acquired
reputation; wrote energetically and fluently; spoke in public with
earnestness and force, but had none of the graces of the finished
orator, and he despised all "rhetorical artifices." In conversation
he was persuasive, but in public debate deficient in this quality; and
while he possessed courage to confront mobs, or dictators, as he
did also to meet an armed host in his country's service, he was
not characterised by that presence of mind in public discussion, so
necessary for effective repartee and popular power. He was in religion
a Protestant, and a member of the Established Church; but it is obvious,
from his various papers in connection with Irish affairs, that he
was not a very earnest Protestant, and was entirely unacquainted with
theological studies. His letters and speeches also show that he was
not conversant with political economy, and that his social views were
unsound. He was a man of many excellences, a true friend, an amiable
companion, an honest and brave patriot, a gentleman, a scholar, and a
_litterateur_.

The next most notable person among the leaders of the Young Irelanders
was William Smith O'Brien. Like Thomas Davis, his integrity was
indisputable. A member, and the representative of probably the oldest
family in Europe, descended from the celebrated Brien Boroighome, who
was monarch of Ireland in the twelfth century, he was proudly jealous
of the honour of his lineage and of his name, and never did man bear a
proud name with more unsullied honour than O'Brien. He mourned over the
sufferings of his country with a tender and compassionate heart, and he
ascribed these sufferings to bad government. It was his desire to remove
all grievances by constitutional means, but his experience as a member
of the imperial parliament led him to believe that Ireland never could
receive proper legislative consideration until the union was repealed.
Perceiving that O'Connell's agitation was never likely to effect that
object, despising the mean and corrupt practices by which that agitation
was attended, and being filled with horror at the occurrence of so much
agrarian crime, he came to the conclusion that an armed attempt to sever
Ireland from Great Britain was the duty of Irishmen, and the only hope
left for her political or social redemption. Mr. O'Brien was a member
of the Church of England, and his sympathies were with the evangelical
section. He was well acquainted with the great fundamental differences
between the church of Rome and Protestant communions, and was
conscientiously and firmly a Protestant, while his mental habits and
religious principles alike made him the consistent friend of religious
liberty. It was generally supposed that his views of government were
monarchical; and as he was the undoubted representative of the Irish
monarchy, it was also believed that he had sufficient ambition to look
forward to the time when independent Ireland would restore to him his
family honours. The personal and moral influence of Mr. O'Brien were
such as to qualify him to be a leader. He was much loved, and deserved
to be so. As a man he was amiable, as a gentleman courteous, as a friend
true. Intellectually, he was not fit to conduct a powerful party through
great dangers. Scholarly and accomplished, he was yet not profoundly
read, nor did he possess any great power as a writer or speaker. He
could not shake the senate like Grattan, Flood, or Curran, nor could
he move the popular will by his pen, like Moore or Davis. Whatever he
undertook for Ireland was in the spirit of a patriot, and his courage
was as unquestionable as his truth. He had studied too little the
character of his countrymen, and the political influence of their
religious predilections, or he probably would never have embarked upon
the stormy sea of the repeal agitation. Had he pondered deeply the
philosophy of Irish character, and of the Protestant and Roman Catholic
religions, by which the people were so extensively and sincerely
influenced, he must have foreseen that the Irish Roman Catholic
population would never enter upon any political enterprise to which
their priests were opposed; that the priests would never favour any
political scheme that did not comprise the ascendancy of Rome; and that
the Irish Protestants, deeply and thoroughly convinced of that fact,
would not extensively join any confederacy for political purposes where
the priesthood could possibly exercise any authority. All these
things William Smith O'Brien, from his position as an Irish Protestant
gentleman, ought to have known; knowing these things, he never could
have plunged into the raging surge of an Irish popular insurrection. He
meant honestly, failed signally, and suffered himself to be involved in
a hapless enterprise, because he had not sufficiently studied the people
among whom he lived, nor the religious influences to which they were
subjected.

A third leader of this party was Thomas Meagher, who afterwards called
himself O'Meagher, son of a wealthy and respectable Roman Catholic
citizen at Waterford. Mr. Meagher was the youngest of all the Young
Ireland leaders.

He had been educated at the Jesuit College, Stonyhurst, Lancashire,
where it would appear that one principle undermined another in his
education; for while he came forth a Roman Catholic politician and a
patriot, he found that the consistent profession of the one came into
such frequent collision with the other, that his honest and manly mind
could not reconcile them, and, as some regarded it, he sacrificed his
creed to his country. Sir Jonah Barrington represents the Roman Catholic
leaders of his day as sacrificing their country to their church.
Thomas Meagher certainly appeared to perform the converse of this.
His enunciations of religious opinion were boldly liberal, and utterly
incompatible with the ascendancy of his own or any other church. In this
respect, as, indeed, in every other, he preserved throughout his course
a most laudable consistency. He probably comprehended the principles of
civil and religious liberty better than any other member of the Young
Ireland confederacy. Young Meagher was full of ardour for the cause of
repeal. Like Davis and Smith O'Brien (to both of whom he was attached
by the tenderest friendship), he believed it to be the salvation of his
country. His soul was inflamed with love of her, and he consecrated
his genius and his life to her resuscitation by the modes which
alone appeared to him calculated to restore her from political death.
Intellectually, Mr. Meagher was superior to any other leader of the
party. Davis had neither the compass nor versatility of Meagher, who
was the only finished orator of the remarkable group of men whom he
intellectually outshone. Some of his orations are as chaste and
fervent as Emmet's, as rich and varied as Curran's, as intellectual
as Grattan's, as logical as Flood's, and as graceful and eloquent as
Shiel's. There are few specimens of political oratory in the English
language which rival some of the speeches of this young tribune. He was
almost as gifted with his pen as with his tongue. His letters abound
with pathos, and poetry of thought and feeling; his descriptions
are graphic and lifeful; his analysis of character accurate and
discriminating; his aspirations noble and pure. There was a pleasing
fascination in his oratory and writing which never passed away. One can
hardly think of his sad story without remembering also the simile of his
national poet:--

     "You may break, you may ruin the vase if you will,
     But the scent of the roses will hang round it still."

John Mitchell was another remarkable member of this fraternity. He was a
solicitor, a Protestant, and a Dissenter. He was the most fiery of all
"the rebels," as these agitators ultimately became. Mitchell was a native
of Ulster, and possessed much of the spirit of the old Presbyterian
United Irishmen of 1798; indeed, some of their leaders were his
relations. He possessed a vigorous intellect, great energy of
thought and action, overbearing-purpose, and unflinching courage. His
information was not extensive, nor his judgment profound, and yet he was
a well-educated, well-read, and very thoughtful, reflective man. He was
adapted to be the sole leader of an insurrection where the object might
be clear, the undertaking desperate, and the work short. His nature was
not adapted either to lay an extensive plan, or co-operate with other
men of mental power in the execution of such. He was crotchetty and
impracticable, a man of rash judgment and hasty action-as brave and as
tenacious as a bulldog. In private life he was gentle and loving; it
was easy, as a friend or companion, to argue with John Mitchell, but
impossible to co-operate with him as a compatriot. He had not the mind
of a statesman, nor had he the prudence and policy requisite for a
popular leader anywhere, much less in Ireland, at a crisis of her
history so peculiar. This gentleman did much to precipitate the
insurrection which drew down upon Ireland, so soon after the period of
which we write, disgrace and ridicule. Like Smith O'Brien, he did
not thoroughly understand the people he was to lead, nor those of his
countrymen to whom he and they were so certain to be opposed, nor did
he compute the religious prepossessions by which those distinct parties
were respectively influenced. Mr. Mitchell was nominally a Unitarian in
his religious creed, but he held very lax notions of this theology, and
verged to Deism.

His views of political economy were erroneous and impracticable; yet he
seemed to pride himself upon his absurd economical theories. He seemed
to have no fixed views of government; he was neither monarchist,
aristocrat, nor republican: his opinions seemed to be incompatible with
all organised government, except a popular despotism, such as the French
empire exemplified. Hatred to England, her name, race, and institutions,
seems to have amounted to a monomania with him; yet he was not himself
of Celtic lineage. His intolerance of opinion and rashness of action
would have been utterly unendurable, were it not for the directness of
his aims, the sincerity of his motives, the disinterestedness of his
spirit, and the suavity of his disposition. The only other member of the
Young Ireland party deserving notice as a chief was Charles Gavin Duffy,
the editor and proprietor of the _Nation_ newspaper. Mr. Duffy was a
Roman Catholic, and professed unbounded respect for the priests. He was
generally suspected of coquetting with them to secure their patronage
of the Young Ireland cause, and that at heart he despised the popular
subserviency to them. There was much in his speeches and literary
articles to confirm this view, but there was also a great deal to lead
to the belief that he was at heart "a priest's man." Certainly their
reverences did not think, or, at all events, appear to think him, a
very particular friend to their order, for they frequently opposed
the circulation of his paper, and denounced himself. He bravely,-'-but
respectfully battled with them, and lost the game-the circulation of his
paper fell as the Roman Catholic tone of it was lowered. Whether this
circumstance had any influence, as was alleged, it is beyond doubt that,
while he continued to maintain his young Ireland theories, he became
more chary of combat with the clergy, and no paper put forth a more wild
and daring ultra-montanism than the Dublin _Nation_, at the very time
that its columns were filled with passionate poetry dedicated to the
rights of country and of kind. Articles asserting that all Irishmen
should be held equal before God and the law, and that Orange ascendancy
and all party ascendancy was destructive to Ireland, were strangely in
contiguity with others asserting the most despotic claims for the
church of Rome that ever were put forth in her name. On the whole, the
inference might be fairly drawn from the writings and speeches of Mr.
Duffy that he hated England with an indiscriminating and malignant
rancour; that her peculiar virtues were as hateful to him as her vices,
her glorious deeds as her errors; and that he hated her for the power
with which she supported a certain degree of civil and religious
liberty, as much as from any grievances of which his country had to
complain, or any distaste he entertained to her race, her habits, or the
idiosyncracies of thought by which her people were characterised. He was
anxious to see his country independent and prosperous, and in order
to be so, wished to see a severance from England, and a full and
unmitigated ascendancy of the Roman Catholic religion. Personally, Mr.
Duffy was too generous, kind-hearted, and manly to persecute, and would
have been among the first to endanger himself by interposing to protect
another from the chain or brand of the persecutor; but the tone of his
writings, and the writings of those who found readiest access to the
columns of his journal, was relentlessly bigoted. If mobs fell upon
zealous, or, it may be, over-zealous clergymen or Scripture-readers,
the Nation always extenuated the ruffianism, and abused the objects of
popular violence. Some reason for this course, applicable only to the
particular case, or to a class of cases under which it was ranged,
was always relied upon in justification of these bitter outbreaks of
intolerance, but the paragraphs in which the vituperation found vent
always disclosed some bigoted principle which constituted the core of
the article. O'Connell obtained an unhappy celebrity for his violence
in religious disputation, but there was always a waggery in his
most virulent sectarian harangues which relieved them, and left the
impression that his bigotry was professional or forensic rather than
heartfelt, but the _Nation_ newspaper allowed no humour to shed a ray
of relief upon the dark sentences of its intolerance. If indomitable
fortitude, endurance, and perseverance could win a cause, Charles Gavin
Duffy would have secured all for which he afterwards struggled and
suffered. The political economy of Mr. Duffy, judging from the columns
of the _Nation_, was not much more enlightened than that of his
coadjutors.

Such were the men who constituted the leaders of the Young Ireland
section of the Repeal Association. There were others who possessed
eloquence, courage, and patriotism, but they did not occupy the
front rank. With this fresh, youthful, earnest, intellectual, and
uncompromising body of young men O'Connell had to compete almost
single-handed; for although he was well supported by the priests, and by
the old hacks of the association, he alone could confront intellectually
so gifted an array of antagonists, or maintain, with any chance of
victory, his side in the logomachy which was perpetually proceeding
within the circle of the Repeal Association. Moore, in one of his
melodies, represents the demon of discord as annually appearing in the
Boyne, and casting forth the burning arrows which were ignited by his
breath; but the scene of the fiery fiend's operations might be well
supposed as changed to "Conciliation Hall," and his arrows thence flung
over the inflammable isle. However indifferent the loyalists might be
to the conflicts between Old Ireland and Young Ireland, the government
could not be so, for "O'Connell's tail" was, if no ornament, of some use
on the ministerial benches. O'Connell denounced the Whigs, but intrigued
to keep them in power, or help them to obtain it. The old Ireland party
had votes in parliament, and gave them with more or less fidelity on the
side of Lord John's administration; whereas the Young Irelanders had
yet to gain the heart, if not the ear of their country, and were not
recognised as a power, except so far as they constituted an _imperium
in imperio_ within the circle of the Repeal Association. The bolder
doctrines of this young party tended also to inspire a spirit of
determined and organised revolt, which the government could not observe
without concern, and the temper of the people was so embittered by
the feuds of their leaders, as to be at least an unfavourable set-off
against the probability that these contests would impair the moral
influences of those who waged them. As a specimen of the state of
feeling between these two parties, the proceedings of the Repeal
Association for June 22nd may be adduced. At that time Sir Robert Peel
was still in office, if not in power; but every one in Ireland believed
that the Whigs would soon resume place, and that O'Connell would pass
from the sphere of unqualified opposition to that of qualified support.
The Young Irelanders took advantage of these impressions to weaken
O'Connell's influence as a leader. This cut him to the heart: he
received the tidings in London, and chafed under the vigilant restraint
which this opposition in his own parliament placed him as to the policy
he might adopt at St. Stephen's. He wrote to the association a letter,
which showed his annoyance and apprehension; the following is an
extract, the most pertinent to the purpose for which the reference
is made:--"It is with the bitterest regret and deepest sorrow that I
witness the efforts which are made by some of our juvenile members to
create dissension and circulate distractions amongst the repealers. It
is manifest that the great majority of the Repeal Association must exert
themselves strenuously to support the association, or the persons to
whom I allude will divide its ranks, and finally destroy the association
itself. For my poor part, I will not be an idle spectator of such a
struggle. 'Tis true that the people may be induced to desert me, but I
never will desert the people. I perceive that it is--I will not use the
proper term--but I will say, most unhandsomely suggested that, in
the event of the Whigs coming into power, the repeal cause is to be
abandoned, or postponed, or compromised. I utterly deny the assertion.
While I live the repeal cause shall never be abandoned, postponed, or
compromised, to advance any persons to power, to support any party or
faction. I have long since; nailed the colours of repeal to the mast,
and they shall, during my life, never be taken down, unless to cover the
entry of the Irish members into the Irish parliament in College Green."

The contests between the two sections of repealers ended in the
secession of the Young Irelanders from the Repeal Association. O'Connell
was at heart glad of this, for his physical and intellectual energies
were flagging, and the constant tantalising to which he was subjected
in the association by these young men irritated his nervous system, and
impaired his health. He made a show of conciliation, and sent a Roman
Catholic clergyman of considerable importance, the Rev. Dr. Miley, to
open negotiations with Smith O'Brien, whom he did not hesitate publicly
to declare was the only man of weight among them. O'Brien was not to be
won by the voice of the charmer, and O'Connell became furious, attacking
the literary men, who principally led the Young Irelanders, in terms
which gave offence to the whole press, and strengthened the ranks of his
opponents. The Whigs treated the Young Irelanders contemptuously, but
endeavoured by every means in their power to conciliate the old repeal
party. Not only was the arms bill dismissed from parliament, but place
and patronage was at the beck of O'Connell; and many of his followers,
notwithstanding their anti-English feeling, and the need of their
services which they supposed their country had, accepted situations in
England and the colonies. The magistrates who had been dismissed by Sir
Robert Peel's government for attending repeal meetings, or joining the
association, were all restored to the commission of the peace. Dublin
Castle unbarred its venerable portals to those who had ceased to be
welcome there, because of their connection with the repeal agitation.
O'Connell's reiterated declaration, that the Young Ireland leaders did
not possess the intelligence, experience, tact, or discretion to conduct
any great movement, much less one of such magnitude and peril as they
proposed, made a deep impression on the minds of the people, and checked
the insurgent progress of these eloquent declaimers.

A circumstance occurred in the English house of commons, in the early
part of the year, which damaged the _prestige_ of Smith O'Brien, and
although O'Connell exerted himself in parliament on his behalf, the
event gave the arch-agitator satisfaction. He had many a private joke
at the expense of O'Brien, and few men could wound with a brighter point
than O'Connell in his best moods of satire. Mr. O'Brien was nominated
on a committee, and refused to serve, alleging that the affairs of his
country were so neglected that he would not attend to any other business
than such as related to it. This was untrue, the affairs of Ireland
had for some years occupied much of the attention of the house, and,
moreover, if Mr. O'Brien did not choose to be amenable to the rules
of the assembly, he ought to have resigned his seat. Persisting in his
refusal to serve on the committee, he was, by order of the speaker,
taken into custody by the serjeant-at-arms, and confined to a chamber
within the precincts. After some time he was released, upon the motion
of Mr. Shaw, an Irish Conservative member. The obstinate conduct of
Mr. O'Brien, on this occasion, vindicated no principle and asserted no
right; it caused his own pure patriotism to be suspected, and brought
his country and himself into ridicule.

Such was the political condition of Ireland when 1846 closed in cold and
gloom over its sickening, starving population. The year expired in
the midst of the most frightful social condition to which any European
people had ever been reduced. O'Connell too truly described it, in one
of his strange and varied harangues in the Repeal Association, in the
following manner:--He commenced by saying, that he deeply regretted to
be obliged to announce that the state of the country was tenfold worse
than it was that day week. The frost had set in, and cold and hunger
were doing their work--in fact, starvation was stalking through the
land. In Connaught there were no less than forty-seven deaths
from starvation within the week--not merely reports of deaths, but
forty-seven cases in which coroners' juries returned verdicts of death
from starvation. This was a horrible state of things, and he hoped that
they would soon be put an end to. The landlords had come forward to give
relief--at least, to some extent; but the merchant classes, he regretted
to say, were holding back. He had seen no meeting of these men; however,
he soon hoped to hear of one; and, in the name of the forty-seven
starved and murdered victims, he would implore of them, and the men of
all classes, to come forward and render every assistance in their power
to relieve the distress.

The orator on that occasion was less than just to the merchants, and
somewhat more than just to the landlords. It was brought to light by
certain correspondents of the London press, that on Mr. O'Connell's own
land the state of the people was most deplorable; that this was so even
before the failure of the crops; that the ordinary condition of his
tenantry bordered upon famine. Mr. O'Connell was, in fact, "a middle
man;" he rented extensive lands, and sub-let at a very large profit. The
persons who were his tenants were ground down with an oppressive rent,
and vainly endeavoured, without capital, profitably to cultivate their
"takings." On the land over which he had himself full control, the
people had little ground of complaint, and much cause for gratitude.
Although he did not come out unscathed from the controversy, which was
raised about the state of the people on his own lands, he was as much
sinned against as sinning--there was an unfair effort to fasten upon him
an imputation of selfishness, which, at all events, he confuted.

Such was Ireland in 1846. Much was done for her; but she suffered
not only in spite of these benevolent efforts, but even by them. She
sorrowfully exemplified the song of her bard--

     "Thy suns, with doubtful gleam.
     Weep while they rise."

The effect of the opposition of the Young Irelanders upon O'Connell
was signal; he evidently began to droop; his physical power no longer
endured. The attacks made upon him by the London press, in connection
with his conduct as a landlord, deeply depressed him; for although he
positively denied the imputations, and furiously assailed his critics,
he felt to the core the exposure of whatever was wrong in his conduct on
that matter. The failure of the potato crop, and the starvation of the
people, were all that seemed necessary to complete the physical decline
of this remarkable man. It was remarked in Dublin, at the close of the
year, that his voice had so far failed that he could scarcely be heard
in the Repeal Association; indeed, similar complaints had been made in
parliament months before. He walked as if weary; his head drooped, and
he wore a prodigious mass of clothing, especially about his throat and
chest. He might be sometimes seen walking between his sons, leaning on
their arms, his head bowed down, as if to escape the winter's blast,
and his body bent as if unable any longer to walk upright. Sometimes he
might be seen passing to or from the association on a "jaunting car,"
so muffled up that only those conversant with his habits could have
identified him. The public power of O'Connell was evidently drawing to a
close.


AFFAIRS OF INDIA.--BATTLE OF ALIWAL.--TOTAL EXPULSION OF THE SIKHS
FROM THE WEST BANK OF THE SUTLEJ.--SUBMISSION OF THE LAHORE
GOVERNMENT.--INSURRECTION OF THE CASHMERE PEOPLE.

The year 1846 was an eventful one for India and for British interests
there; it opened in the midst of one of the most formidable warlike
straggles ever witnessed since the English first began their conquering
progress under Clive. Although the Sikhs had experienced such defeat at
Mood-kee and Ferozashooshah, they were not yet disheartened, but were
determined to maintain the war. By the close of 1845 they had been
driven from all their posts of importance on the left bank of the
Sutlej, except their strong works at the bridge of Sobraon. Early in
January, 1846, they began operations by crossing the river, so as to
draw supplies from the fertile resources of the territory from which
they had been so recently, and after such hard fighting, expelled.
The Sirdar Runjoor Singh Majeethea crossed over to the bank opposite
Philoor, and occupied Baran Hara. This place was situated between the
old and new courses of the Sutlej, and was favourably situated for
the purpose of cutting off the communications of the British, and of
alarming the garrison of Loodiana, then one of the most important places
in that part of the country. Brigadier-general Godby held command of the
garrison at Loodiana, which consisted of only three regiments of native
infantry; but other troops were rapidly moving up to reinforce it. Some
of those troops had to march from Umballah. While Runjoor Singh was
crossing the Sutlej and taking up a position at Baran Hara, the British
were also engaged in active operations. Lord Gough had sent a detachment
from the division of Sir Hairy Smith against Dhurrumkote. The town was
defended by a fort, and it was reported that the garrison would make
a desperate resistance. Sir Harry Smith in person commanded the troops
sent against the place, and proceeded with such celerity, that the town
and fort became an easy conquest. The garrison proved to be entirely
composed of irregular auxiliaries to the Khalsa, and they made no show
of determination. The movements of the sirdar, already described, became
so threatening to Loodiana, that Sir Harry Smith was ordered, upon the
reduction of that place and the security of the stores of grain which it
contained, to manouvre for the defence of the menaced British garrison;
and Brigadier-general Wheeler was ordered, with the second brigade
of Sir Harry's division, to follow in support. General Smith marched
rapidly from Dhurrumkote to Jugroon, and then, to use the language
of General Gough, "breaking down" from Jugroon, he marched towards
Loodiana. This movement was extremely hazardous, for the sirdar's
forces were by far the more numerous, and his infantry, active and well
disciplined, burned to avenge the previous disasters. Runjoor marched
his forces parallel to those of the British general, opening upon him,
as occasion allowed, a heavy cannonade; for the Sikh forces were well
supplied with cannon, and their gunners were capable of maintaining,
with coolness and skill, a well-directed fire. Both parties showed great
skill in manoeuvring, and the major-general required all the ability
which he displayed to extricate himself from the superior force, which
pursued his march and harassed all his movements. On several occasions,
the whole force of Major-general Smith was in imminent peril, but its
gallant commander never quailed, was never thrown off his guard, and
was not in a single instance out-generalled. On one occasion the enemy
obtained, by his superior numbers, a most advantageous position, which
placed the small British force in great peril, for, bending round one
wing of his army, the sirdar enveloped the flank of the British.
The English general with admirable coolness, extricated his brigade,
retiring by _échelons_ of battalions, suffering heavily, but maintaining
the order and steadiness of his troops until the imminency of the peril
was over, when he opened his communications with Loodiana, at
once securing his own force, and affording safety to the garrison.
Brigadier-general Wheeler was unable at once to follow up these
movements; the skilful and complicated manoeuvres which Sir Hairy made
to evade the enemy threw the brigadier off the communication. The
Sikhs were, on the whole, encouraged by these proceedings; they had
interrupted the communication of Generals Smith and Wheeler, captured
considerable baggage, acted for some time on the aggressive, and
inflicted loss upon the British. It was, therefore, with some
confidence, that they took up an intrenched position at Budhawal,
resting for support on the fort connected with that place. The position
was not, however, a safe one. Smith and Godby were on one Hank, and
Wheeler, cautiously feeling his way, hung dangerously upon the other.
The sirdar became alarmed lest Wheeler should be reinforced, and the
British generals should then fall on both his flanks; he accordingly
fell back upon the Sutlej, a movement bad in strategy, but which was
forced upon him by the movements of the English generals--unless,
indeed, he had suddenly, with great rapidity and boldness, attacked them
in detail. Wheeler and Smith formed a junction, and moved clown upon the
abandoned post of Budhawal. Here General Smith was further reinforced,
and he found himself at the head of a body of men, European and native,
sufficiently formidable to justify him in acting at once upon the
offensive. Before General Smith could attack the new position of the
sirdar, the latter was reinforced by a brigade of cavalry, twelve guns,
and a small division of infantry, probably numbering about four thousand
men. Finding himself at the head of a force numerically so superior to
the British, the enterprising sirdar once more took the offensive;
but instead of attacking the army of Sir Harry Smith, he attempted to
intercept his communications with the main army, by the occupation
of Jugroon. To prevent the accomplishment of this object, the English
general determined to bring on a general engagement. Accordingly, on the
morning of the 28th of January, the British force made directly for the
enemy, with whom they came up after a march of six miles. The Sikhs were
in position along a ridge of elevated ground, close to the village of
Ullewall, or, as it is called in the British despatches, Aliwal. The
right of the enemy rested upon a somewhat precipitous ridge, while the
left was defended by intrenchments. As the British cavalry came near the
enemy, they deployed, and advanced boldly, presenting an imposing array,
especially the European lancers. The ground was favourable for cavalry;
it was like a fine English sward. The troopers then took ground to the
right and left by brigades, the infantry advancing in column. From the
Sikh camp the scene was more brilliant; as the cavalry broke away the
columns of the advancing infantry appeared full in view, the sheen of
their bayonets brightly gleaming in the eastern morning sun. Still more
brilliant was the scene as the advancing columns deployed into line, for
what sight so impressive, where masses of men constitute the objects of
interest, as lines of British infantry drawn up in the array of battle
'? The cavalry now assumed direct échelon to the rear of both flanks
of the infantry. The artillery were placed on either flank and in the
centre. A review day in Hyde Park, Aldershot, or in the undulated and
picturesque Phoenix Park, at Dublin, could not present a more orderly
and trim appearance than this magnificent line of British soldiers,
drawn up before the acclivities of Aliwal. There was no wind, no dust.
The sun was bright, but not so hot as might be expected in that climate,
and the troops moved with noiseless foot, hoof, and wheel over the hard
grass, as if it were a fairy scene, and the baton of the British chief
were the wand of an enchanter, every movement of which called into
gay and brilliant reality some new feature of the "glorious pomp and
circumstance of war." Viewed from the British lines, the Khalsa host
was also imposing, as its dark masses of infantry were ranged along the
position, from whence they looked sullenly down upon their skilful
and gallant foe. The Sikh cavalry, in constant and unnecessary motion,
gave some life to the stillness which brooded over the long lines of the
compact and motionless infantry of the Khalsa army. It was a moment of
extreme suspense, for upon the fortune of this battle much depended.
If the sirdar repulsed the British, he would undoubtedly cutoff their
communications, oblige them to fall back upon Loodiana, and paralyse the
advance of Lord Gough upon Sobraon. If the British conquered the enemy's
lines, the sirdar's army had no retreat; the river was in his rear, and
it was in no place easily fordable, nor had he other means of crossing,
adequate to the safe retreat of such an army--defeat and destruction
were to him the same. It was a day for valour to aid men; life, hope,
honour to both armies depended upon the deeds to be that day enacted
upon the grassy slopes of Aliwal.

The superiority of the enemy in numbers enabled him, by his left, to
outflank the British; Sir Harry Smith, accordingly, ordered the troops
to break into open columns and take ground to the right. The British
line had advanced one hundred and fifty yards; it was now ten o'clock,
and suddenly from the whole of the Khalsa position a fierce cannonade
was opened. At first the balls fell short, but as the British advanced,
the enemy's shot told fearfully upon their ranks. Still, under this
heavy fire, the line was halted, that the general might execute a
manoeuvre which appeared to open a prospect of more speedy victory. The
village of Aliwal was discovered to be the key of the position, and the
British general, by moving his right successfully upon it, could with
great advantage operate against the left and centre of the enemy's line.
This the English commander executed in the most brilliant manner: the
first brigade of his own division, under Brigadier Hicks, immediately
supported by Brigadier Godby's brigade, which had constituted the
garrison of Loodiana, gallantly stormed the village of Aliwal, and
from this new vantage-ground opened a deadly fire upon the right of the
enemy's left, and his left centre. Sir Harry then ordered his whole
line to advance, which was gallantly achieved, the 31st (or Young Buffs)
European regiment distinguishing itself, although the native regiments
showed a noble emulation to be first in front. The cavalry on the
enemy's left were now in a position to act effectively against the
British, but the brigade of cavalry on our right flank, commanded by the
skilful and clashing Brigadier Cureton, charged them, sabring numbers,
and driving the rest pell-mell upon their infantry, whom they threw
into confusion. Another body of British cavalry, consisting of the
light-horse and the body-guard, made a second charge equally brilliant.
The intrenchments of the enemy, filled with infantry, were now brought
into view; but General Smith ordered Godby's brigade to change front
and take them _en revers_; this manouvre increased the confusion of the
enemy, whose infantry gave way, leaving several guns in the hands of the
victorious brigade. These movements on the enemy's left were decisive
of the action, but the British behaved equally well on other portions of
the field. Brigadiers Wheeler and Wilson assailed their right, storming
their lines and capturing their guns. The Khalsa army reeled back,
broken and despairing, and sought the river, in the vain hope that they
might manage to cross by fording or by boats. The rapid movements of the
British turned the retreat of the enemy into a disorderly and desperate
flight. The sirdar had, however, made some provision for defeat; he had
occupied strongly the village of Bhoardec, so as to cover the retreat
to the river, and if possible to cover also the passage. Here the 16th
Lancers behaved splendidly. The enemy had a strong force of infantry
drawn up on one flank of the village; the 16th charged them; the foe
stood the charge heroically; the 16th penetrated their square; the Sikh
square, notwithstanding the efficiency of the lance in such warfare,
closing behind the cavalry as they charged through. The lancers wheeled,
and this time used the sword more than the lance, disconcerting the
arrangement of the enemy, and breaking their square. The 3rd Light
Cavalry completed the work of destruction, bursting through the
formation of the infantry, and putting great numbers to the sword. The
fighting might be said, to be in some sense more desperate after
the battle was lost and won than during the operations upon which
stragetically its issue depended. While these brilliant, cavalry charges
were occurring on the right of the village, her majesty's 53rd carried
the village itself by storm, and the 30th native infantry, wheeling
round by the left of the houses, took the fugitives in rear. The same
masterly skill and heroic valour which was shown in taking Aliwal
conquered Bhoardee, the last hope of the defeated; for although about
1000 Khalsa infantry rallied under a high bank to check the destructive
advance of the English, there was no longer any hope of covering a
retreat across the river. Even this rally only added to the slaughter
and the ultimate confusion: a heavy fire of musketry from 1000 men,
closely directed, was galling to our soldiers, but the 30th native
infantry took them, at the point of the bayonet, and as they retreated,
twelve guns which were previously moved up to within three hundred
yards, opened a deadly fire of canister, mowing down the fugitives in
a manner which even those engaged in deadly strife thought it awful to
witness. To complete the horror of this flight, her majesty's 63rd,
who moved up to the support of the 30th native infantry, pursued the
fugitives, pouring in a close, deadly, unremitting stream of musketry.
With wild cries of despair, casting away their arms, and lifting up
their hands as if beseechingly to their victors, the whole of the Khalsa
troops cast themselves into the river, except such of the earliest
fugitives as secured the boats and made good their passage. The river
was swollen; at the shallowest place the infantry were up to their
necks, and were under the fire of the artillery and musketry of their
pursuers. Those who succeeded in crossing drew up with a few guns, but
the fire of the artillery caused their speedy departure, leaving their
cannon behind. Lieutenant Holmes, of the irregular cavalry, and gunner
Scott, of the 2nd brigade horse-artillery, here performed a gallant
exploit; they swam their horses across the stream, and spiked the guns,
exposed to the fire of the enemy's skirmishers, but covered by the
British fire from the left bank. The conflict of Aliwal was over, and
one of the most skilfully fought and completely won battles of modern
times reflected its glory upon the name of Sir Harry Smith, and the
valour of the British army of India.

The scene after the battle was horrible; the whole field of combat was
covered with the slain; the river's banks were thickly strewn with the
dying and the dead; the Sutlej itself bore to the Sikhs at Sobraon
the tidings of the battle, for not only "redly ran its blushing waters
down," but the corpses of the slain Khalsa soldiery were borne along
in such numbers by the current as to reveal the horrible nature of the
slaughter, and to fill with dismay the Khalsa host.

The slain of the enemy was computed variously, from eight to ten
thousand men; the trophies of war were, nearly all the Khalsa standards,
fifty-one pieces of cannon, and a vast quantity of ammunition, small
arms, and camp equipage.

Every arm of the British force behaved with admirable gallantry and
skill; the infantry carried every point under the most galling fire,
preserving their formation in a manner beyond all praise; the cavalry
swept the horsemen of the enemy from the field, as the tide rolls the
wreck upon the shore; the artillery could not be surpassed by that of
any army in Europe: towards the close of the action, the manner in
which two 8-inch howitzers, ordered up by Sir Harry Smith himself, were
worked, excited the admiration of the troops.

This battle, however, did not determine the war. The Sikhs occupied such
strong positions on both sides of the river at Sobraon, that they were
willing to believe their post impregnable, that an attempt to storm it
would be fruitless, and that in fact there a barrier existed, against
which the surging wave of British power would be broken. This was the
only point of occupation then held by the Khalsa army on the left bank
of the Sutlej. All fears for Loodiana having now subsided, the mission
of Sir Harry Smith at the head of a separate _corps d'armée_ was over,
and he marched to join the grand army under the command of the intrepid
veteran Sir Hugh Gough, one of the noblest soldiers that ever served in
the British army. General Sir Charles Napier, in his own eccentric way,
said of him that he was "as brave as ten lions, each with two tails
and two sets of teeth." Sir Charles rivalled Mr. Roebuck, the radical
English commoner, in the scantiness of his commendations; his droll
eulogy of Sir Hugh Gough will therefore be appreciated. On the 8th of
February, Sir Harry Smith made his junction with the army of his chief,
and was received in terms not more flattering than just from a general
who never refused to merit its just meed.

The first duty of the English commander-in-chief was now to capture the
stronghold of the enemy, which was extensively fortified, mounted more
than seventy heavy pieces of cannon, and was garrisoned by 30,000 men,
the select troops of the grand Khalsa army. Even with the addition of
Sir Harry Smith's division, the brave old chief was hardly strong enough
for the task imposed upon him; but happily his artillery, which very
much needed it, was reinforced from Delhi by several howitzers and
mortars.

On the morning of the 10th, General Gough considered himself in a
condition to proceed against the works of Sobraon; these had been well
reconnoitred previously, and never was an army more confident in its
chief, its resources, and its own will than the British army of the
Sutlej. The enemy had been ceaselessly employed since the battle of
Aliwal in throwing up fieldworks on the right bank of the river, so as
to command the flanks of the works on the left bank. Easy communications
between the two camps were preserved by an excellently constructed
bridge. As this is a general History of England, and not a History of
India, or of the War in India, the space allotted to our task will not
allow of more minute particularisation of the defences.

Sir Hugh Gough made his dispositions of battle on the evening of the
9th, according to which, at daybreak on the 10th, the cannonade was to
open. A dense mist, however, covered the sphere of intended operations,
rendering it impossible to open fire until the sun had penetrated the
obscure atmosphere. On the extreme right of the works, close by the
river, Major-general Sir K. Dick, with two brigades of infantry,
awaited the signal to begin. On this point the attack was to be led by
Brigadier-general Stacey, at the head of her majesty's 10th and 53rd
foot, brigaded with two native regiments: the 10th now, for the first
time, came under fire during this war. Brigadier Wilkinson, at the
head of the sixth brigade, was posted within 200 yards in support of
Brigadier Stacey. The reserve was commanded by Brigadier Ashburnham. The
right of the attack was occupied by the division of Major-general Sir
Hany Smith, its extreme right approaching the river. The centre was
commanded by Major-general Gilbert, whose division was posted with
its right resting on the Little Sobraon. Brigadier-general Cureton
threatened the ford at Hurrakee, and remained in observation of the
enemy's horse, posted on the other side. The force under Cureton was
to make a feint of attempting the ford.

The supports were commanded by Brigadier-general Campbell and
Major-general Sir Joseph Thackwell; the former in support of Smith's
left and Gilbert's right, the latter in support of Gilbert's left and
the right of General Dick.

As soon as the mists were dispersed by the morning sun, the Sikhs
appeared behind well-constructed redoubts and breastworks of planks
and fascines. The British field-batteries opened fire, and received a
terrible response.

At nine o'clock, Brigadier Stacey advanced, supported on either flank
by artillery. The movement was orderly and beautiful, the infantry
preserving its line in double quick time, the artillery galloping up
to take possession of every advantage of the ground, until the infantry
again occupied the advanced position; thus mutually supporting, the
artillery and infantry arrived within three hundred yards of the
ponderous batteries of the works. Here a terrible fire opened upon the
advancing force, before which many fell, and few believed, who could
see what was passing, that Stacey and his brigade would ever reach the
intrenchments of the enemy. The troops of Brigadier Wilkinson were
well up in support, and under cover of the fire of our fieldpieces and
horse-artillery. Stacey's brigade charged' the intrenchments, entered
them, drove the enemy in at the point of the bayonet, fighting
desperately as they receded. This took place within view of a large
portion of the army, and the exultation and assurance of victory which
was consequently excited, materially affected the fortunes of the
day. The whole of this brigade, European and native, behaved with the
greatest intrepidity, "the brave Irish of the 10th," as Major Edwardes
on another occasion described them, were especially distinguished. They
never fired a shot until within the intrenchments; they discharged their
pieces into the breasts of such of their enemies as withstood them, or
in pursuing volleys upon those who retreated within the inner area of
the works. The 53rd regiment also, as in the battle of Aliwal, behaved
with great courage, and showed the highest discipline.

As soon as General Gough perceived the success of Stacey, supported by
Wilkinson, he directed brigadier the Hon. T. Ashburnham to follow the
supports, and Generals Gilbert and Smith's divisions to throw out their
light troops against the enemy's centre and left, and to open a heavy
fire of artillery. The cannonade against the enemy's centre, and more
especially against his left, was delivered with amazing rapidity, at a
close range, and with deadly aim. The Sikhs, at the same time, worked
their very heavy pieces with skill, so that while a fierce bayonet
encounter went on within the trenches on the enemy's extreme right,
one hundred and twenty pieces of cannon sent their messengers of death
across the opposing lines, and rolled their thunders over the valley
and the waters of the Sutlej. The Sikhs began to expect that the British
centre and right would confine the attack to an artillery battle, and
therefore detached their infantry in masses from those points against
Stacey's brigade, which had then fought their way well within the works.
General Gough, thereupon, ordered the centre and left trenches to be
attacked, so that the whole semi-circle of the works was stormed. At the
first onset the Sikhs gave way on every point, but they returned with
desperation to the conflict, especially where there was a chance of
precipitating themselves upon the native regiments. Three British
divisions of infantry fought hand to hand with the enemy; but the
battle seemed doubtful, from the numbers and desperation of the enemy.
A manoeuvre was now executed which was generally regarded as novel, but
which, on a small scale, British cavalry accomplished also in America.
The sappers and miners of the left attack broke passages through the
intrenchments, through which the cavalry of Sir Joseph Thackwell rode,
in single file, forming as they passed through, and then charging
within the area of the defences, cut down the Sikh gunners and infantry
mercilessly. The 3rd Dragoons, with less assistance from the sappers,
and making many "break-neck leaps," sprang within, the defences,
and used their swords with the skill for which that gallant corp had
obtained so high and so well-deserved a reputation. The conduct of that
intrepid regiment surpassed, if that were possible, its own glory at
Moodkee and Ferozashooshah. Light field-pieces were brought in through
every opening, and were worked in murderous proximity to the enemy.
Infantry, cavalry, and artillery were now within the works, which were
no longer tenable, and the Khalsa soldiery fled precipitately to the
bridge, pursued with a carnage similar to that at Aliwal. Here, however,
the bridge befriended the fugitives, but an artillery and musketry fire
was directed upon it, making havoc in the confused and dense masses--men
whose hurried flight impeded their progress, and increased the
slaughter. As they gained the bridge their pursuers were at hand,
precipitating them over it into the Sutlej. Another column of fugitives
attempted to ford the river, but the waters were high, and swept them
from their feet. The horse artillery galloped into the river, and
discharged showers of grape upon the unresisting masses who struggled
through its dark waters. Little quarter was given, for, true to Eastern
usage, those who now were fugitives and cried for mercy, murdered the
prisoners whom in the early part of the action they had captured. Their
conduct resembled that of another Asiatic nation which calls itself
European, years afterwards, on the slopes of Alma, and on the plateau of
Sebastopol. To the circumstance of the Khalsa soldiery refusing to give
quarter the unsparing vengeance of our troops was to be attributed; and
it must also be admitted that when the Sepoy soldiery are thoroughly
excited, they display a ferocity which none who are only acquainted with
their ordinary conduct and character would ever suppose possible. The
battle was over by eleven o'clock. History furnishes few instances of
such a signal victory so soon won. On no occasion, not even excepting
Aliwal, did the Company's troops fight better: the testimony of Sir
Hugh Gough was very much to their honour in this respect. He especially
selected for encomium the Ghoorkhas, as bravest where all were brave.
"I must," wrote the general in his despatch, "pause in this narrative
to notice the determined hardihood and bravery with which our two
battalions of Ghoorkhas met the Sikhs wherever they were opposed to
them. Soldiers of small stature, but indomitable spirit, they vied in
ardent courage in the charge with the grenadiers of our own nation, and,
armed with the short weapon of their mountains, were a terror to the
Sikhs throughout this great combat."

The battle of Sobraon destroyed the Khalsa army, and humbled the
military power of the nation. The spoils of war were sixty-seven pieces
of cannon, more than two hundred camel swivels, numerous standards,
ammunition, small-arms, side-arms, accoutrements, tools, and every
appendage of a fortified place. The loss of the British army was very
serious in effecting such important achievements.

Major-general Dick, one of the heroes of Waterloo, was killed; also
Brigadier-general Taylor; and Major-general McLaren was mortally
wounded. In all, thirteen European, and three native officers, were
killed; one hundred and one European, and thirty-nine native officers,
were wounded. The total of men killed was only three hundred and twenty,
but more than two thousand were wounded, many of them mortally. The loss
on the part of the Khalsa army was enormous; notwithstanding that they
fought behind works, a larger number were slain than at Aliwal.

Sir Hugh Gough lost no time in utilising his victory, for the same day
he passed a division of native infantry over a bridge of boats across
the Sutlej, the bridge of Sobraon having been broken and burnt at the
close of the action, and the ford at Hurrakee being impassable, the
river having risen some seven inches in a short time. The destruction of
the bridge of Sobraon does not appear to have been a politic measure;
it was not necessary as a precaution, because the enemy was so totally
defeated as not to be able to make use of it any longer.

On the 14th of February, the whole of the British army of the Sutlej
bivouaced at Kussoor, within thirty-two miles of Lahore, the Sikh
capital. The governor-general there issued a proclamation, announcing
his determination to prosecute the war until the complete submission
of the Lahore government was obtained; at the same time, his excellency
declared that he had no wish to subvert the Sikh government, but only
desired to obtain security for the future good faith of the maharajah's
ministers, and the peace of the bordering possessions of British India.
The Lahore government was terror-struck at the rapid approach of the
British army, and at the moral effect which the proclamations of the
governor-general were likely to have upon the Sikh population. Gholab
Singh, the wuzeer, represented to the ranee, or queen-mother, that the
Khalsa army had lost twenty thousand men in the last two battles, and
that unless terms were made with the governor-general, the dominions of
her son would be soon forfeited. The ranee called a council, and it was
then agreed that Gholab should repair to the British camp and sue for
peace. The wuzeer undertook the task, on the condition that the ranee,
the durbar, and the chief officers of the army, as well as the members
of the punchayete, should sign a solemn declaration that they would
abide by the terms he might accept, and do all in their power to enforce
their observance by the Sikh soldiery and population. This was acceded
to; and on the 15th the wuzeer, accompanied by Dewan Deena Nath, and
Fakeer Kboroodeen, proceeded to the British camp. These three persons
were conjointly empowered to negotiate, and they were attended by many
influential Sikhs, anxious for peace; among them was the Banuhzie chief,
Sultan Mohammed Khan, and several sirdars of great eminence. Thus a
strong moral guarantee was given to the British that the negotiations
were sincerely opened by the Lahore government. Sir Henry Hardinge
admitted the deputation coldly, refusing to receive the muzzars offered
and accepted on all occasions of important negotiations in the East. The
terms demanded by Sir Henry were the surrender of the territories east
of the Beas, in addition to the province which had in December been
declared confiscated; the surrender of every gun which had been
pointed at the British; the disbanding of the Khalsa army, and its
reorganisation on the principles observed by the Maharajah Bunjeet
Singh; the entire regulation and control of both banks of the Sutlej;
a reorganisation of the Lahore administration, and the payment of one
million and a half sterling as indemnification for the expenses of the
war. It was also demanded that the young Maharajah Dhuleep Singh should
meet the governor-general eleven miles from Lahore. Sir Henry refused to
discuss these points in person with the Rajah Gholab Singh, but referred
him to his secretary, Mr. Currie, and to Major Lawrence. The rajah
remained until midnight discussing the terms with these officers, and
finally accepted them. On the 17th Gholab again renewed his interview
with Mr. Currie and Major Lawrence, when various details were settled.
On the 18th the young maharajah, attended by a magnificent suite,
presented himself, at Lulleeanee, to Sir Henry, who received him without
a royal salute, or any other mark of royal distinction. The maharajah,
an amiable and gentle prince, submitted to the governor, expressing
his contrition for the outrage which had been inflicted upon British
territory. Of course this was a mere formal ceremony, as the prince was
too young to take any share in the responsibility of these occurrences.
When submission was made in due form, a royal salute thundered from
the British camp, and all the etiquette due to an eastern prince was
observed towards the young maharajah.

The relics of the Sikh army were at this time drawn up about eighteen
miles from Lahore, at a place called Raebaun, under the command of
the two notorious leaders, Sirdar Fej Singh, and Rajah Sail Singh. The
soldiery of this force had the hardihood to request that they should be
led against the British, and their murmurs and threats of revenge did
not cease during the proceedings which were taking place, and which
ended in the establishment of peace. Indications were already given
that neither the Khalsa army nor its chiefs felt even yet vanquished.
Immediately after the maharajah made submission, the governor-general
put forth the following proclamation:--"The chiefs, merchants, traders,
ryots, and other inhabitants of Lahore and Umritsir, are hereby informed
that his highness Maharajah Dhuleep Singh has this day waited upon the
right honourable the governor-general, and expressed the contrition of
himself and the Sikh government for their late hostile proceedings.

"The maharajah and durbar having acquiesced in all the terms and
conditions imposed by the British government, the governor-general
has every hope that the relations of friendship will speedily be
re-established between the two governments. The inhabitants of
Lahore and Umritsir have nothing to fear from the British army. The
governor-general and the British troops, if the conditions above
adverted to are fulfilled, and no further hostile opposition is offered
by the Khalsa army, will use their endeavours for the re-establishment
of the government of the descendant of Maharajah Runjeet Singh, and for
the protection of its subjects. The inhabitants of the cities in the
Punjaub will, in that case, be perfectly safe in person and property
from any molestation by the British troops, and they are hereby called
upon to dismiss apprehension, and to follow their respective callings
with all confidence."

On the morning of the 20th the British army were under the walls
of Lahore, where not a cannon appeared in the embrasures. The
governor-general thought it politic to send Dhuleep Singh, the young
king, with some ceremonial to his palace, he accordingly issued the
following general order, which made a favourable impression on the
inhabitants of Lahore, as well as on the chiefs of the Sikh nation:--

"The right honourable the governor-general requests that the
commander-in-chief will cause the following arrangements to be made for
escorting his highness the Maharajah Dhuleep Singh to his palace, in
the citadel of Lahore, this afternoon. The escort will consist of two
regiments of European cavalry, two regiments of native cavalry--the
body-guard to be one--one regiment of irregular horse, two troops of
horse artillery, one European and one native. The secretary to the
government of India, F. Currie, Esq., will take charge of his highness
and his suite, and will be accompanied by the political agent, Major
Lawrence; the governor-general's private secretary, Charles Hardinge,
Esq.; the aides-de-camp of the governor-general; two aides-de-camp of
the commander-in-chief, one aide-de-camp from each general officer
of division, in uniform. The escort will be formed at the nearest
convenient spot to the governor-general's camp at two o'clock, and
proceed to his highness's camp, and thence to his palace. On alighting
from his elephant a salute of twenty-one guns will be fired by the horse
artillery.

"His highness the maharajah of the Sikh nation, selected by the chiefs
as their sovereign, having on the 18th instant intimated his intention
to proceed to the governor-general's camp at Lulleeanee, attended by
his highness's wuzeer, the Rajah Gholab Singh, and other chiefs, was
received in durbar on the afternoon of that day by the governor-general,
the commander-in-chief and the staff being present. His highness's
ministers and chiefs there tendered his submission, and solicited the
clemency of the British government.

"The governor-general extended the clemency of the British government to
a prince the descendant of the maharajah, the late Runjeet Singh, for
so many years the faithful ally and friend of the British government,
as the representative of the Sikh nation, selected by the chiefs and the
people to be their ruler, on the condition that all the terms imposed
by the British government and previously explained to his highness's
ministers and chiefs should be faithfully executed.

"On withdrawing from the durbar, the maharajah received the usual
salutes due to his highness's exalted rank. His highness has since
remained near the governor-general's camp; and, as it will be conducive
to his highness's comfort that he should rejoin his family, the
governor-general desires that he may, with all honour and in safety, be
conducted by the British troops to the gates of his palace this day.

"A proclamation was issued on the 18th instant by the governor-general,
promising protection to all persons at Lahore and elsewhere who
peaceably continue in their usual employments of trade and industry.

"The governor-general is satisfied, after the experience of this
campaign, that he can rely on the discipline of this invincible army,
as fully and securely as he has always been confident that the clay of
battle, under their distinguished commander, would be one of victory.

"He trusts, at present, that no officers or soldiers will pass the
advanced sentries of their encampment to enter the town of Lahore, and
he requests his excellency the commander-in-chief to give the necessary
instruction to carry this order strictly into effect, as well as to
protect all persons bringing provisions into the camp."

The report of the secretary concerning the installation of the young
maharajah in his palace, under the British auspices, is very striking,
and exemplifies the grandeur and customs of oriental courts and
conquerors:--

"I have the honour to state, for the information of your excellency,
that, in accordance with the instructions contained in the order of the
governor-general of yesterday's date, I proceeded in the afternoon with
the escort ordered, and accompanied by the officers mentioned below, on
elephants, to conduct the Maharajah Dhuleep Singh to his palace in the
citadel of Lahore:--Major Lawrence, the govern or-general's political
agent; W. Edwards, under-secretary of the foreign department; R. Oust,
Esq., assistant-secretary to the foreign department; C. Hardinge, Esq.,
private secretary to the governor-general; Lieutenant-colonel Wood,
military secretary to the governor-general; Captain Cunningham; Captain
Hardinge, aide-de-camp to the governor-general; Captain Grant, ditto;
Lord Arthur Hay, ditto; Captain Mills, ditto; Captain Bagot, aide-decamp
to the commander-in-chief; Captain Edwardes, ditto; Captain Gilbert,
aide-de-camp to General Gilbert; Captain Tottenham, aide-de-camp to
General Smith; Lieutenant-colonel Smith, ditto; Captain Napier, ditto;
Captain Smith, ditto.

"The procession was arranged in the following order:--9th irregular
cavalry, 3rd light cavalry, her majesty's 16th Lancers; troop horse
artillery, Europeans; troop horse artillery, natives; her majesty's
9th Lancers, the secretary, with the maharajah and suite, the
governor-general's bodyguard.

"The escort was formed in open column of troops left in front, commanded
by Brigadier Cureton, C.B. We proceeded in this order to the encampment
of the maharajah, about one mile and a half from our pickets, and
nearly the same distance from the citadel gate of the city. At about
three-quarters of a mile from the maharajah's camp I was met by the
minister, Rajah Gholab Singh, and some of the chiefs. Intimation of our
approach was then sent on to the maharajah, that he might be ready upon
his elephant upon our arrival.

"On reaching the maharajah's camp, the troops of our escort drew up, and
the maharajah, with Bhaee Kam Singh on the same elephant, came forward
from his tent, accompanied by several chiefs. After the usual salutation
and complimentary questions and replies, I placed the maharajah's
elephant next to mine, and the troops having fallen in, as at first,
proceeded round the walls of the city to the gate of the citadel. On
arriving, Brigadier Cureton drew up the escort in line in front of
the gateway, and I took the maharajah, accompanied by the officers
enumerated in the former part of this letter, with Rajah Gholab Singh
and the other chiefs, into the interior of the citadel, and to the inner
door of his palace. I then observed to the maharajah and chiefs, that by
the order of the right hon. the governor-general, I had thus brought
the maharajah, conducted by the British army, to his palace, which his
highness had left for the purpose of tendering submission to the British
government, and for placing himself, his capital, and his country at the
mercy of the governor-general, and requesting pardon for the insult that
had been offered; and that the governor-general had thus restored him
to his palace as a mark of the favour which he desired to show to the
descendant of the late Maharajah Runjeet Singh.

"A salute of twenty-one guns was then fired by the horse artillery.
We then took leave of the maharajah at the gate of his palace, and
returning to the outside of the city, we, continuing our progress round
Lahore, thus returned to our camp. As our camp is situated opposite the
south-east end of the city face, and the citadel is immediately within
the city walls, at the north-west angle, we made the entire circuit
of Lahore. I considered this preferable to going through the city,
the streets of which are very narrow, and would have much impeded the
progress of our large escort. We did not see one gun on any part of the
walls, all their embrasures were empty."

On the 22nd of February the governor-general occupied the citadel and
the palace, and issued a general order, proclaiming the termination of
the Sikh war. The army which had been engaged, and all regiments ordered
up to its support, received a year's _batta_ (pay). Fej Singh, who was
twice wounded at Sobraon, was at the head of a very considerable force
in the neighbourhood of Umritsir; but, notwithstanding the devotion
of his troops, he did not dare to offer resistance; his cannons were
surrendered, the soldiery uttering loud cries of rage, and the officers,
in tears, uttering suppressed groans of remorse and shame. The disbanded
troops disturbed and plundered various districts in the country.

On the 25th of February, the men of the 16th Lancers and of the 31st
foot (Young Buffs) were ordered to Bombay to embark for England,
permission being given to such of the men as thought proper to volunteer
into regiments still serving in India. The bulk of the British army
remained in the Punjaub for some months, various circumstances affording
grounds for suspicion as to the good faith of the ranee and her durbar.
The treaty of Lahore was however completed, and was sufficiently
stringent. It has already been shown upon what terms negotiations were
opened: when the stipulations were reduced to regular form, they
assumed a more binding character, the following items having been
introduced:--The hill country between the Beas and the Indus to be
ceded instead of one lac of rupees, part of the indemnity. Fifty lacs
of rupees to be paid by the maharajah on the ratification of the treaty.
The Lahore army to be limited to twenty-five battalions of regular
(Aeen) infantry, and twelve thousand cavalry. The entire control of the
rivers Beas and Sutlej, to the confluence of the Indus at Mikenkote, and
the control of the Indus from the point of the confluence to the borders
of Beloochistan. The maharajah never to take into his service any
British subject, nor the subject of any European or American state
without permission of the British government. Rajah Gholab Singh to
be recognised as an independent sovereign over such territories as the
British should make over to him. All disputes arising between him and
the Lahore government to be referred to the British. All change in the
frontiers of the Lahore state prohibited without British sanction.

In pursuance of the stipulations concerning Gholab Singh, a treaty
between him and the British government was concluded at Neuritzen on the
16th of March. The following articles of it will sufficiently disclose
its character:--In the first article, the British made over to the
rajah all the hilly country just conceded by the Lahore government. This
territory was situated to the eastward of the river Indus, and
westward of the river Ravee, including Ohumba, and excluding Lahool.
In consideration of this transfer, the rajah should pay to the British
government fifty lacs of rupees on the ratification of the treaty, and
twenty-five lacs on the 1st of October. The British government to give
the rajah assistance against all external enemies. Maharajah Gholab
Singh to acknowledge the supremacy of the British government; and in
token thereof to present annually one horse, twelve perfect shawl goats,
and three pairs of Cashmere shawls. The symptoms of discontent, on the
part of the disbanded troops and the defeated chiefs, rendered necessary
an extra article to the treaty of Lahore, for the purpose of
garrisoning that city for the defence of the young maharajah during
the reorganisation of his army on a different footing. It was agreed to
occupy the citadel and town of Lahore to the end of 1846.

While all these events were passing, Sir Charles Napier, the governor of
Scinde, made great exertions to render such service as he could to the
policy of the governor-general of India. Sir Charles hastened forward
from the seat of his government, but on passing up the Sutlej was fired
upon; he landed at Ooch, and proceeded to Bhawulpore, where he arrived
on the 20th of February. He there made a political visit to the rajah,
and proceeded on to Feroze-pore, which he reached on the 22nd of
February; but the governor-general was then in the neighbourhood of
Lahore. Before Sir Charles could arrive, all that has been related
transpired. By the same date, Lord Elphinstone had arrived as far as
Delhi, _en route_ to the governor-general's camp.

Matters did not long remain quiet in the Punjaub. The ranee was an
unprincipled woman; her paramour, Lall Singh, was an unprincipled man;
and this pair began to plot further commotions before those which had so
nearly overwhelmed them were entirely composed. Lall Singh hated Gholab;
the installation of the latter as maharajah of Cashmere excited his
jealousy, especially as Gholab, having been wuzeer, continued to tender
his advice to the ranee. It was in fact determined at Lahore,
that Gholab should never enter upon his independent sovereignty.
Mohee-ood-Een had been governor of the district under the Lahore
supremacy. A son of this person, entitled the Sheik Enam-ood-Een, was
made Sail Singh's instrument for carrying out his scheme. Acting as the
new wuzeer of the ranee, who was regent during the minority of her son,
Dhuleep Singh, Lall Singh directed the sheik to summon a meeting of
the chieftains of the mountain country subjected by treaty to the new
Maharajah Gholab Singh, and to organise among them an armed resistance
to his power. Gholab was more of a diplomatist than a soldier; he
marched against the bold mountaineers, was defeated, and obliged to call
for the aid of the English. Brigadier-general Wheeler, an experienced,
gallant, and spirited officer, was ordered to march upon Cashmere
and occupy the capital. The sheik, panic-struck, came in and made
submission, revealing the treachery of the ranee's paramour and adviser.
Lieutenant-colonel Lawrence got possession of such documents as proved
the treacherous complicity of the Lahore government; a formal demand was
therefore made upon that government for the expulsion of Lall Singh from
the Lahore territory, and for a renewed promise that the treaty of the
9th of March between Gholab Singh and the British should be respected.
The Lahore government was once again all submission, and Lall Singh
was seized and carried across the Sutlej into the British territory. In
consequence of these transactions, the governor-general demanded that
a British resident should be received at Lahore, to whom all political
questions should be referred before obtaining a practical application.
Also that English troops should be at liberty to occupy any fort or
territory, if necessary to preserve the public peace and enforce the due
observance of the treaty. The Lahore state to pay twenty-two lacs of
new Nameck-shee rupees, of full tale and weight, per annum, in order
to reimburse the expenses which the British government should incur,
in preserving by an armed force the authority of the maharajah, and
the observance of the treaty against the refractory chiefs or disbanded
soldiery. On the attainment of his sixteenth year, the maharajah to be
recognised as of age, and the regency of the ranee and the council of
regency to cease, or sooner, if the governor-general and the Lahore
durbar so agreed. Thirteen of the principal sirdars of the Punjaub
signed these agreements in the presence of Lieutenant-colonel Lawrence
and Mr. Currie, not one of whom, in all probability, contemplated the
observance of the stipulations a moment longer than suited their own
views.

Little further of importance occurred in the Punjaub during 1846.
British India generally was quiet, but disturbances of all sorts
prevailed in the surrounding territories. The new conquest of Scinde
was consolidated by the genius of the eccentric and gallant man who
conquered it, and his name was, by a strange perversion of compliment,
used as a synonyme for "_Shatan_" all over Beloo-chistan, Affghanistan,
Delhi, and the Punjaub. Lieutenant-general Sir G. Arthur was
incapacitated by ill-health from that active administration of the
Bombay presidency which had characterised his government. He had
done much to consolidate British authority there by his firmness and
humanity, his goodness and justice, and not only by those high moral
qualities, but also by his intellectual aptitudes for sustaining the
responsibility imposed upon him.

One of the causes of disquietude in various places, and more especially
in the Punjaub, was an increasing desire of the whole native population
to expel the British. This partly arose from fanaticism, and partly from
hostility of race. The Sikh ranks had been mainly recruited from our
disbanded Sepoy soldiery and deserters. Sir Charles Napier made vigorous
efforts to correct the evils which he found to exist in the army within
his own government, and made representations to Sir Henry Hardinge full
of prophetic foresight as to the disposition of the Sepoys, whom the
gallant conqueror of Scinde believed to be disloyal almost to a man.
According to statements made long afterwards by Major-general Tucker
(the adjutant-general), and by Major-general Lord Melville, Sir Henry
Hardinge, while he actually eulogised the Sepoy army especially for
their loyalty, privately expressed his alarm at the unsafe foundation
upon which British power in India rested, in consequence of the secret
unfaithfulness of the Sepoy troops! This very much resembled Sir Henry's
procedure afterwards, when Lord Plardinge and commander-in-chief of the
British army. Possessing administrative capacity, military talents of a
high order, and as dauntless a heart as ever beat in a British soldier's
breast, he had the soul of a "red-tapist" and a "snob," and was ready to
sacrifice his own opinions and the welfare of the service, to official,
aristocratic, or court influence. He fought and governed well, but not
so much for the good of the country as the objects of his caste.
His conduct in reference to the Sikh war was much reprehended for
unpreparedness, want of promptitude, and for a tampering and concessive
policy unsuitable to oriental nations. His extreme gallantry in
the field, and the successful issue of the war, blotted out these
reprehensions both from his own name and from the public mind. His
instructions from home accounted for his time-serving hesitation,
unpreparedness for the war, and forbearance with an enemy upon whom such
indulgence was lost. All this vacillation harmonised with the foreign
and domestic policy of Sir Robert Peel, under whose instructions he
acted. It met with the disapprobation _ab initio_ of all men competent
to form an opinion on Indian affairs. The chivalry of the soldier
covered the faults of the governor-general, and the impolicy of the
government under whose instructions he acted.

When the tidings of these events in India reached England, the rejoicing
was very great. Never had the arms of England been more signally crowned
with success; and never had such suspense attended the first tidings
of the dangers to our Indian empire, menaced by the invasion of the
far-famed and highly-disciplined Khalsa army. The country felt relieved
of a great pressure of care, as when, after a long and gloomy night--

     "Man wakes again to joy, and peace, and hope,
     Day dreams, and bright reality."

Parliament was prompt to express the general admiration for the brave.

On Monday, the 4th of May, the House of Commons resolved itself into a
committee on a message from her majesty, respecting a provision for the
governor-general and the commander-in-chief. Both these gallant men had
been raised to the peerage. Sir Robert Peel (the minister) proposed a
grant of £3000 a year to Lord Hardinge and his two next male heirs,
and £2000 a year to Lord Gough and his two next male heirs. These
propositions received the assent of the house. Mr. Hogg, on the part of
the East India Company, announced that the company had made grants of
£5000 per year to Lord Hardinge for life, and £2000 per year to Lord
Gough. Lord Francis Egerton drew attention to the claims of Sir Harry
Smith, which both Sir Robert Peel and Lord John Russell treated as an
interference with the prerogative of the crown.

On the following night, in the Lords, the Earl of Ripon moved an address
to her majesty in answer to her message. On that occasion the Earl
of Clanricarde eloquently eulogised both the gallant generals whose
exploits in the Punjaub had added fresh wreaths to the chaplets of their
fame.

The civil affairs of India were occasionally the subject of discussion
in the British press throughout this year: the Indian railway projects,
the high price of money at Calcutta and Bombay, and the fluctuations
of commerce in our Eastern territories, demanded the attention of
economists and politicians.

On the 9th of November, an extensive list of brevet promotions in the
Indian army was announced in the _Gazette_, which comprised thirty-four
major-generals, twenty lieutenant-colonels, and two bunded and forty-one
captains. This gave great satisfaction to the profession and the public.

An interesting occurrence in connection with India took place in the
earlier part of the year. Lieutenant Waghorn, whose enterprising genius
led him to prosecute the problem of an overland route to India, saw
his labours at last crowned with success. The government resolved, with
certain modifications, to adopt the basis of his scheme.


STATE OF AFFAIRS AT THE CAPE OF GOOD HOPE.--SUCCESSES OF THE
CAFFRES.--VICTORY OVER THE TRIBES OF STOCK AND PATO BY COLONEL SOMERSET.

Among the many eventful matters of 1846 was a Caffre war. The tribes
bordering the British territory were brave, restless, and predatory.
Almost the only property which they valued was cattle, and they were
tempted by the large flocks of the colonists to make border raids. The
force at the disposal of the settlers was not sufficient to preserve
their property, nor check these incursions, much less to punish them.
The various tribes could precipitate nearly thirty thousand, and, on
occasions, forty thousand men at once upon the colony; resolute, robust,
wild men, physically superior to the Fingoes and Hottentots within the
territory of her majesty, and equal in that respect to the Boers or
British. The marauders were also mentally superior to the black races
within the colony, and altogether more interesting savages, braver
in battle, and capable of a higher civilisation. One of these tribes,
numbering about ten thousand, was in alliance with the British, but the
whole population of the Cape able to bear arms, and the troops, taken
together, did not reach twenty thousand men. The nature of the country
favoured the action of savage assailants, especially such as were
intellectually so well capable of taking advantage of it as the Caffres.
For disciplined troops it was unfavourable, where there was such an
enemy to encounter. During the early part of the year the Caffres moved
simultaneously on various points, capturing cattle, and slaying or
driving the settlers into every post upon which they might fall back for
safety. It was not war, for the Caffres literally hunted the borders,
striking terror into the hearts of the colonists, and carrying off their
property. As the year advanced the settlers assumed a well-organised
attitude; the Fingoes and Hottentots were armed, and showed some courage
in defence of the colony and the harassed troops; by dint of courage and
exertion they appeared in various directions intime to keep the enemy
at bay, and preserve the lives and habitations of the Dutch and English
settlers. This was the state of matters when, on the 26th of April,
the Caffres came down in great numbers and swept away the cattle of the
colonists, driving them through the Fish River. In carrying away this
booty they passed, with great hardihood, close to the fortified post
called "Trompetter's Drift." The guns of the position opened with
grape and canister, at point-blank range, and accomplished a dreadful
slaughter, but none of the booty was recaptured; the enemy even earned
away all his wounded and slain.

On May the 5th a formidable force came upon the neighbourhood of Fort
Beaufort. The colonists stood to their defence, and a sharp action
ensued, in which three of the settlers were killed and many wounded. A
much larger number of the marauders were put _hors de combat_, but the
victory, on the whole, was with the Caffres, who brought away seven
horses, three hundred and thirty head of cattle, and seventeen thousand
sheep. At this juncture Colonel Somerset, of the 7th Dragoon Guards
(then quartered at the Cape, and mounted as light cavalry), displayed an
enterprise and courage which entitled him to much honour. He was wise in
council, energetic in business, indomitable in resolution, and heroic in
battle. To these qualities of a man's sterner nature, he added those
of a humane and amiable heart. The colonel was on the watch for an
opportunity to strike a severe blow against these freebooters, and on
the 8th of June opportunity was afforded. On the previous evening a
party of burghers and Fingoes scoured the Fish River bush, and performed
this duty efficiently, the Fingoes showing spirit, and generosity to the
enemy. Colonel Somerset formed a junction with this force on the morning
of the 8th. The colonel had under his command the Cape Mounted Rifles,
a detachment of the 7th Dragoon Guards, and two heavy guns. Early in
the day the united detachments encountered a very large force, under the
command of the notorious marauding chief, Stock. The Caffres, confident
in their numbers and in their recent successes, challenged the British
to come on, and, in fact, commenced the action, throwing out skirmishers
with something of the practice of regular troops; they afterwards made
some furious charges with the assigai. The measures taken by Colonel
Somerset were marked by his usual ability and promptitude, and the enemy
suffered a most sanguinary defeat. When Stock perceived that the day
was going against him, notwithstanding a protracted combat, he sent off
several mounted men express for Pato, another chief. The latter sent a
chief named Umhala, who advanced at the head of his tribe, but having no
conception that his friends had experienced defeat, and supposing that
he was only about to aid in taking a spoil, he was astonished to
find himself suddenly in front of the fine force of Colonel Somerset.
Meanwhile, Lieutenant-colonel Lindsay, who commanded in Fort Peddie,
perceiving that the firing of cannon and musketry was heavy and
protracted, sent out Captain Hogg, with a troop of the 7th Dragoon
Guards and a gun, who came upon the rear of Umhala's party just as
Colonel Somerset met them. The Caffres, placed between two fires, their
retreat cut off, numerous although they were, lost confidence and broke.
They were charged fiercely, and cut to pieces. Estimates were given of
their loss, varying from three hundred to twice that number. The British
loss was slight; about seven troopers fell, and several officers were
very severely wounded, in close combat, by the assigai, a formidable
weapon in the hands of a South African. Among the officers hurt were
Sir Harry Darell, who was wounded in the thigh and arm severely; Cornet
Bunbury also received several wounds. Captain Walpole, of the Engineers,
was shot in the thigh, and a blow from an assigai upon the neck laid
bare the windpipe. Those officers, Lieutenant O'Reilly, and others,
displayed much personal prowess, cutting down the Caffres with their
swords in close, desperate, and successful conflict.

The following letter gives a good description of the scene presented to
the reinforcement sent out by Lieutenant-colonel Lindsay:--

"Colonel Somerset has been out to-day in the direction of Stock's Kraal.
About an hour after he left we heard heavy firing, which lasted for two
or three hours. It appears that they were challenged by a lot of Caffres
in the bush; they went in after them and gave them a regular mauling,
shot a great number of them, and coming out on the flat when they had
polished these gentlemen off, they fell in with a body of about five
hundred to six hun-, dred, whom they also charged, and shot like so many
dogs. I believe, at the lowest computation, three hundred and fifty
were left dead on the field. This last body that they fell in with
were Pato's Caffres, who heard the firing at Stock's Kraal, and were
hastening to his assistance, when, luckily for us, they were caught upon
the open flat, and the 7th Dragoons and Cape Corps charged them, and
literally rode over them. I trust that this affair, coupled with the
attack on Peddie, will cool their courage considerably. One corporal
of the Cape Mounted Rifles was shot dead, and Sir Harry Darell, Captain
Walpole, Royal Engineers, and Bunbury, together with some men of the
7th, are slightly wounded: I think four of them slightly, and one very
dangerously. Colonel Somerset seems the only man that can bring them
to their senses. They were all going down to attack supply waggons that
were to come up from Trompetter's to-morrow morning, but I fancy, after
to-day, they will not attempt it. I must now give you an account of the
slaughter that took place shortly after. We were all very tired, having
been on our legs from nine o'clock last night to midday to-day, with
hardly any refreshment; we therefore hastened to the camp; however, we
were disappointed in having refreshment. We saw the colonel's division
a mile or two a-head, marching quietly on. Presently we saw a party ride
ahead, and soon after a race. Then firing commenced. I rode up as fast
as I could to the ridge; a spectacle was then presented to my view which
I shall not forget. A large party of Caffres had collected near the
Kieskamma, intending to move to-day towards the Fish River to intercept
the waggons, and stop the communication. This party heard the firing and
thought that the waggons were attacked. They hastened to help, but what
was their astonishment when they found a large force in front of them.
Fortunately, there was no bush to shelter them; they fired one volley
and dismounted from their horses--about three hundred mounted and seven
hundred foot. The Dragoons then charged them, and killed many; a panic
seized them--they ran off, and were shot like sheep--dragoons, Cape
Corps, Boers, all firing at them, following them up full six miles.
They became completely exhausted--they could not run. The slaughter was
awful! They were followed up to near the Kieskamma. The slaughter was
on the Gwanga, near Mr. Tainton's late place. The lowest estimate is, I
believe, three hundred killed; very few were seen to get away. We took
three prisoners--one at Hmpa-kati, belonging to Creili. He said the
intention of the Caffres was to drive the Umlunguinto the sea. We asked
how it was to-day. He said it was all finished to-day. Pato has crossed
the Kieskamma. Umhala and Seyolo were with this command. How they fared
we cannot tell. It is supposed that Stock was this day killed."

After this Colonel Somerset followed up his success. Many skirmishes,
much plunder, and considerable loss of life occurred, but, in the end,
the British forces remained victors. The Caffres, however, were not
prevented from reorganising themselves for fresh forays.


STATE OF NEW ZEALAND.--SUPPRESSION OF THE NATIVE REVOLT.

It was not at the Cape only that our troops had to contend with savages
of a superior race: the year began with a conflict in New Zealand.
Captain Grey, the governor, having in vain endeavoured to conciliate
the disaffected chiefs, proceeded, at the head of eleven hundred
men--sailors, marines, and soldiers--to attack the principal pal,
which was defended by stockades, so skilfully constructed, that it was
necessary to erect works, and mount cannon and mortars, to dislodge
their occupants. The subjugation of the place was effected after severe
loss on the part of the enemy, and, unhappily, considerable loss on the
part of her majesty's force. The capture of the pal led to the surrender
of the chiefs, and before the month of January expired, peace was
restored to the colony.


BORNEO.

The proceedings of the Borneo pirates having led the British Rajah
Brooke to demand assistance, Captain Mundy, under the direction of
Admiral Sir Thomas Cochrane, operated during the month of July in
command of an effective maritime force. The squadron sailed up the river
to Brune, the capital of the country, which was defended by several
strong forts, and a heavy battery, _à fleur d'eau_, of eight brass and
two iron guns, sixty-eight pounders. All; these defences were carried by
the British sailors and marines, and terrible destruction inflicted upon
the pirates. After effecting what appeared to be a complete subjugation
of these hordes of sea robbers infesting these coasts, the squadron
retired.


OUR NORTH AMERICAN COLONIES.

_Canada._--The relations between Great Britain and the United States
were so unsatisfactory at the beginning of this year that considerable
uneasiness existed in Canada lest war should break out, and that colony
become the chief theatre of contest. A militia bill passed the Canadian
legislature, which was calculated to give confidence to the imperial
government, and which placed the colony in an armed attitude towards her
great neighbour.

The free-trade measures proposed to the British parliament caused
even more disquietude than the differences with the United States. The
Canadian producers were very jealous of these states as a competitor in
supplying the English market, the legislature passed strong resolutions
expressive of their alarm, and addressed the crown, representing that
free trade in corn between the neighbouring states and the mother
country would be productive of the heaviest injuries to the colony.
This address was one of the most sturdy pronouncements of protectionist
opinion which the discussions of the day brought forth. The Canadians
were happily disappointed. The imperial legislature was not checked in
the enactment of its free-trade measures by this memorial; good was done
to Canada in spite of herself; the legislators of the parent country
understood the interests of Canada better than her own provincial
parliament did, and the great prosperity of that country may be said to
have begun with free trade. The year was one of alarm and discontent
in both the upper and lower provinces. A dreadful fire in Quebec, which
nearly destroyed the city, added to the other causes of disquietude.

_Nova Scotia._--This colony also suffered some commercial depression,
and endured apprehension of a war upon the North American continent. The
fisheries were comparatively unproductive, and the potato crop failed.
Happily the corn crops prospered, relieving considerably the pressure
upon the resources of the people. A militia bill, occasioned by the
apparently hostile policy of the United States government, provided
for the defence of the province. Certain differences arose between the
legislature and the crown, in connection with the crown revenues and
the civil list, but the year closed upon the colony in peace, and with a
fair measure of prosperity.

_Newfoundland._--The affairs of this colony were characterised by
nothing remarkable during the year, in a political point of view, but a
great social calamity attracted the attention of the American colonies
and of the mother-country. A conflagration broke out at St. John's, which
laid nearly the whole city in ashes. The fire happened on the 9th of
June, and as the houses of the town were mostly built of wood, it
soon spread beyond the power of any efforts which the population
could command to restrain it. The Custom-house, Roman Catholic Church,
Protestant Episcopal Cathedral, Court-house, jail, ordnance store, all
the newspaper and printing-offices, the banks, the Hall of Legislature,
post-office, and police-office, were all burnt clown, together with
two whole streets, each more than a mile long, leaving 12,000 persons
without a habitation. The shipping, near the wharves also caught fire,
and some of the vessels were destroyed. The loss of property exceeded a
million sterling.


FOREIGN AFFAIRS.

_The United States._--On another page sufficient reference has been
made to the circumstances attending the chief subject of dispute between
Great Britain and the North American Union. The Oregon boundary was
adjusted, and all fear of war between the two countries removed. The
propositions made by the Earl of Aberdeen, the English foreign minister,
were so unfavourable to his own country, and so completely a concession
to America, that the president and senate at once accepted them. Had the
navy of the United States driven our fleets from the Pacific, President
Polk could hardly have expected terms more favourable to his nation.
Indeed, the only energy which the noble earl displayed in his management
of foreign affairs was in conceding what his queen and country had a
good right to claim.


SOUTH AMERICA.

_Brazil and La Plata._--On the southern part of the American continent
events also occurred of some interest to England. During the previous
year a united British and French force operated successfully against the
dictator Rosas, who, in spite of the remonstrances of England, France,
and Brazil, persisted in hostile operations against the republic of
Monte Video. Notwithstanding the chastisement inflicted by the European
navies, Rosas continued his hostility to Monte Video during the year.
The measures taken against the tyrant by the governments of England and
France were half measures. The Earl of Aberdeen and M. Guizot seemed to
be associated in wondrous harmony of action, or rather inaction, when
the joint interests of the two powers were concerned.

Differences arose between Great Britain and the Brazils in connexion
with the slave-trade. A convention had existed between the two countries
for its suppression on the coasts of Brazil; the period for which the
convention existed expired early in the year, and the government of
the Brazilian emperor notified to that of her Britannic majesty that it
should not be renewed. This gave great umbrage to the latter government,
which saw that the design of the Brazilians was to continue the
infamous traffic. The British parliament consequently passed an act for
subjecting Brazilian vessels, suspected of being engaged in the trade,
to the jurisdiction of the English tribunals. Against this the Brazilian
government protested, and sent a circular note conveying a copy of the
protest to all other powers. On the 3rd of May the emperor delivered
an address to the representatives of the nation, stating that he would
support the dignity of his crown against the interference of Great
Britain, and calling upon the assembly to support him. He at the same
time, however, declared that he would be faithful to his engagements
in putting an end to the trade in Africans. This was so vaguely
expressed, and the desire of the Brazilian government was so evidently
to foster that illicit commerce, and, if possible, involve England in
a quarrel with some of the other maritime powers, that the English
government was much incensed, and resolved upon stringent measures. In
this they were opposed by the Manchester party, even by some among them
who had taken a most active part in anti-slavery movements. The persons
thus inconsistent were chiefly among the Society of Friends, who, while
on the one hand they hated oppression, on the other hated war, even
when waged to succour the oppressed. The chief movers in the Manchester
agitation against the government policy towards Brazil, were, however,
neither anti-slavery men, nor members of the Peace Society, but certain
merchants engaged largely in the Brazilian trade, and whose political
principles were very accommodating, always, somehow, being on the side
of their interests, or supposed interests, in commercial matters. No war
ensued, but the firm attitude taken by the English government prevented
the renewal of the slave-trade by Brazilian merchants.


RELATIONS WITH CONTINENTAL EUROPE.

_France_.--The year 1846 was one of much discussion between England and
France. Louis Philippe proved himself as insincere and selfish as
the Bourbons always were, to whatever branch of that faithless family
belonging. M. Guizot, the chief minister of the king, was as little
candid as his master. The same treachery which sullied the reminiscences
of Ghent, characterised the procedure of the minister towards England
in 1846. There were various subjects of difference between the two
countries; but that which most occupied the attention of Europe was the
Spanish marriages. Louis Philippe had a numerous family, was avaricious
to the last degree, and allowed avarice and nepotism to govern his
policy, rather than the honour and interests of the great kingdom over
which he presided. He was desirous that one of his sons should marry
the Queen of Spain, and that another should be united to her sister.
The queen-mother favoured this idea, as did also the chief minister,
Narvaez. On the other hand, it was alleged that the English government
was intriguing for a prince of the house of Cobourg. This was not the
case--at all events, when the Whigs came into power. Lord Palmerston, on
behalf of his court and government, disclaimed it, and demanded that
the royal family of Spain should be left free to follow their own
inclinations, excepting only as regarded members of the royal family
of France, against a union with which the English whig foreign minister
protested, as a breach of the treaty of Utrecht. Mr. Disraeli, and
others of the conservative party, were of opinion with M. Guizot, that
such marriages as the French ministry contemplated would not infringe
that treaty, which guaranteed that the throne of France and Spain
should not be filled by the same person, but made no provision against
marriages upon which such an event might appear to be contingent.
The British government was firm in regarding the proceedings of Louis
Philippe as directed by an unprincipled ambition, in defiance of
treaties, and of the alliance between Great Britain and France then
subsisting. The English government did not encourage a member of the
house of Cobourg, but advocated the pretensions to her majesty's hand of
a Spanish prince, Don Enrique, the Queen of Spain's own cousin. To this
the French government was opposed, because Don Enrique was of liberal
political opinions, and it was the policy of Louis Philippe and his
_alter ego_, M. Guizot, to keep down liberal aspirations in Spain. The
reaction policy of the French king and his minister was now in full
operation, and this was, unfortunately, more felt at Madrid than at
Paris. The King of the French wished, he alleged, to see the choice of
the Spanish princess fall within the Bourbon circle; but a ban was laid
on Don Enrique, because of his constitutionalism, or, as Guizot was
pleased to designate it, his revolutionary opinions. The intrigue of
the French government was successful, so far that the Queen of Spain
was married to a Spanish Bourbon, brother to Don Enrique, a man whom
the queen personally hated, a bigoted devotee and reactionary, whose
fanaticism against liberty was morbid, and who was an avowed Carlist,
openly denying the right of the Queen of Spain to the throne. Whatever
could be supposed as likely to influence the fortunes of the young queen
and of the Spanish nation, unfavourably, in connection with a royal
marriage, was associated with this; but Louis Philippe and M.
Guizot cared for none of these things, so as their own project was
accomplished. At the same time the sister of the queen was married to
the Duc de Montpensier, a son of Louis Philippe. The two marriages were
celebrated together with great pomp and ceremony. The Spanish government
did not much care whether the royal lady married an Orleans or a
Cobourg, so as France or England were engaged on its side against the
apprehension of a republican or Carlist revolt; and, on the whole,
France was supposed more likely to interfere for such a purpose than
Great Britain.

The singular dishonesty of M. Guizot and his master startled the
politicians of Europe. The French government had pledged itself to the
English not to take any step to secure the hand of either of the royal
ladies of Spain for a French prince. M. Guizot afterwards justified his
conduct by alleging that the English government was secretly abetting
the interests of a Cobourg. He admitted that he could not prove this,
but justified his acting upon such a strong suspicion as he entertained.
When, in 1847, M. Thiers brought on certain stormy discussions in the
French chambers on this subject, the admission was wrung from the
French foreign minister that the conduct of England had been loyal and
honourable--that no efforts had been made to press a Cobourg upon
the attention of the Spanish court; this too celebrated person thus
convicting himself of premeditated bad faith, and of resorting to
accusations and falsehood to vindicate a policy which he had falsely and
wilfully initiated, or, at all events, pursued, when initiated by his
royal master.

One feature of the infidelity of the French court and minister to their
engagements excited the indignation of all honourable minds acquainted
with it. When the English government detected the intention of Louis
Philippe to break his engagements and to prosecute the Montpensier
marriage, that government urged that, at all events, it was desirable,
if the treaty of Utrecht was to be observed, that the Queen of Spain
should have an heir to the throne before the marriage of her sister took
place. The French minister promised that the marriages should not take
place _at the same time_. When the English government remonstrated upon
the disregard of this engagement, shown in the actual fact that the two
marriages had their celebration together, M. Guizot justified himself
by alleging that, inasmuch as the queen was married first, although her
sister was married immediately after, the ceremonial was not celebrated
at the same time! This audacious departure from every decent observance
of truth and honesty was perpetrated by a man who is lauded by the
_savons_ of France to this day as one of their illustrious number. His
Memoir of Sir Robert Peel is popular in England, and he has since been
received with favour in London! The whole administration of M. Guizot,
foreign and domestic, was a dishonour and a curse to France, and
supplies one of the dark pages of her history.

It was on the 10th of October that Louis Philippe and M. Guizot
consummated their treachery to England, and their selfish policy towards
Spain, and laid the foundation for an alienation between the French and
English governments, which continued until the hypocrite king was hurled
from the throne of France.

_Spain_.--The policy of the King of the French to Spain was not regarded
with any interest by the mass of the Spanish people. The English
government and citizens supposed that the Spanish marriages would bring
about a revolution, but the people looked coldly on. The French king
understood the Spanish nation better than it was understood in England.
There was, however, a large party in Spain which regarded the designs
of the French king with an enlightened and politic alarm. Thus, when the
Spanish government selected him as mediator with the pope, to effect a
reconciliation between the courts of Rome and Madrid, the language of
suspicion uttered by Senor Leijas Lozano expressed the real views of
most men of cultivated minds in Spain:--"For my part, I admit that I
had much suspicion, mingled with fear, when it was determined to select
France as our mediator with Rome, and these fears I have not yet got
rid of. The question is, are the offers of service made by France to the
Spanish government sufficiently frank?--are they sincere? I fear
they are not. _Her interests are not identified with ours_. I may be
mistaken, but my firm belief is that it is the interests of France
that we shall remain as isolated as possible until the great events she
desires be effected."

A strong conviction was entertained by many eminent men in Spain, that
Sir Robert Peel and the Earl of Aberdeen had complicated the question
of the Spanish marriages; that, although the Whigs repudiated with
sincerity all interference, these two statesmen had coquetted with the
question of a Cobourg alliance for the Spanish queen, and that in doing
so they were only carrying out the wishes of the English court; that
the knowledge obtained of these facts by the secret agents of the French
king, and of the queen-mother of Spain, made both less scrupulous, and
hastened the perfection of a plot which, but for such discoveries, the
royal intriguants would not have had the boldness to prosecute.

Ministerial changes were frequent in Spain throughout the year. The
Narvaez ministry was broken up, and that of Senor Isturitz followed;
that too was destroyed. Narvaez was successful in his intrigues,
supported by the queen-mother and the King of the French. England
looked on with jealousy; and it was supposed in Spain that, but for
the disasters and conflicts which occurred within the bounds of her own
empire, she would have interfered in a more tangible manner. French gold
was freely spent in Spain to facilitate French policy; and so corrupt
were the public men of that country, that, as Louis Philippe well knew,
money, applied skilfully, could change ministers and effect revolutions
with a facility unknown to any other country in the world.

_Portugal_.--The Portuguese government gave satisfactory assurances,
in answer to the demands of England, that the anti-slavery stipulations
between the two countries should be carried into effect more
efficaciously than heretofore; the intercourse between the two nations
was therefore peaceful and satisfactory. The intrigues of the French
court were, however, extended to that part of the Iberian peninsula
also. The court of Portugal was invited to reactionary measures by
the French minister, and French political agents were busy in Lisbon,
Oporto, Coimbra, and elsewhere. The Cabrai government became unpopular;
Castro Cabrai was supposed to exercise an undue influence; and José
Cabrai, his brother, the minister of justice, was unpopular everywhere,
but especially at Oporto, from which city he had to flee for his life.
The Cabrai government was ultimately driven from office and from the
capital: these events occurred in May. The queen now committed affairs
to the Marquis de Palmella, and issued proclamations restoring liberty
of the press, and remitting the exorbitant burial fees demanded by
the priests, which had been enforced by the government: these measures
restored peace. The French court incessantly intrigued against this
government also, and in four months after its formation it was abruptly
dismissed; the result was civil war. Two distinct insurrections went
on together--a republican or radical one in the south, and a Miguellite
revolt in the north. It was generally supposed by the Portuguese that
the faction of the court was in favour with the court of England, as
Colonel Wylde, equerry to Prince Albert, attended the camp of the royal
commander-inchief. The colonel, however, acted as commissioner of the
British government, which felt a deep interest in the distresses of
Portugal--peculiar treaties binding the two countries. The year 1846
closed over the Iberian peninsula in discord, turbulence, and woe.

_The Papal States_.--According to the constitution, England held no
diplomatic connection with the court of Rome. The proceedings of that
court, however, had an important influence upon the British empire, as
four-fifths of the Irish population were Roman Catholics, and in Eastern
Canada, Newfoundland, and other British colonies or dependencies, many
of the people were of the same religion. The events of the year at Rome
were the death of Pope Gregory XVI., and the election of Cardinal Mastei
to the pontifical chair, who assumed the title of Pius IX. One of his
first acts was to publish an amnesty for political offenders, which
gave great satisfaction to the inhabitants of the Roman States. This
was speedily followed by a tariff reform, based upon sound views of
the interests of the Roman people. Throughout the year, his civil
and sacerdotal administration were alike popular within the states,
throughout Italy, and all over Europe. The French, Austrian, Neapolitan,
Spanish, and Portuguese governments were all, however, incensed at the
liberal tendencies of the new pope. The Roman Catholic subjects of the
Queen of Great Britain and Ireland received the announcements of the
pontifical liberality with favour; it was thought that by these means
the objections of Protestants would be softened, and a way opened for
the reconciliation of many, especially liberal churchmen, to Rome.

_Poland_.--The sympathies of England were aroused by events in Poland,
which extinguished the last spark of Polish liberty. Throughout all the
provinces, a desire existed to make one effort more for freedom. The
hope of disenthralling their native land animated every heart. An
ill-concerted insurrection, was the inevitable consequence of this
strong feeling; and as Cracow was a free city, under the guarantee of
the treaty of Vienna, the insurgents believed that they could use it as
a _point d'appui_. In the month of February, the circle of Tarnow rose
in arms. The peasantry of Silesia, armed with scythes, attacked the
Austrian troops under General Collin, and drove them out of Cracow. A
provisional government was instituted there; Poland was called upon
to rise at once; and all nations, especially France and England, were
appealed to in passionate terms for aid. After various successes by
the revolters, they were at last encountered by superior forces,
and repeatedly defeated: Cracow was taken by the Austrians, and its
independence extinguished. The English and French ministers protested
against this as a violation of the treaty of Vienna. Russia and Prussia
supported the policy of Austria, who replied to the Western diplomatists
that the proceedings of the Poles was a violation of the treaty of
Vienna, and that it was necessary to the integrity and peace of the
Austrian empire that Cracow should be no longer a focus of rebellion.
The Western governments satisfied themselves with protests, and the last
green spot of Polish independence had its life stamped out by the foot
of Austrian despotism.

Such were the general relations of England during the year 1846.
Colonial revolt was suppressed; a powerful invader was driven back from
her oriental territory; and she maintained with honour her European
policy, and peace with neighbouring nations, under circumstances of
great provocation; her star shone with more lustre in the eyes of
foreign nations when the year terminated than when it opened.


HOME.

The parliamentary events of the year have already been narrated. There
were many home incidents which were not comprised in the records of
parliament. In the month of January, Wales was visited with disastrous
inundations, which destroyed a vast amount of property, and caused much
distress. More liberal arrangements were made about this time for the
reward and promotion of deserving privates and non-commissioned officers
of the army. In the month of February, Captain Rous, the member
for Westminster, having accepted office under Sir Robert Peel's
administration, a new election became necessary. The captain was opposed
by Lieutenant-general Sir de Lacy Evans, one of the most chivalrous and
accomplished soldiers in the British army. The result was in favour of
the gallant general by nearly one thousand. Sir de Lacy, being returned
as a thoroughly liberal politician, this event was "a heavy blow, and
great discouragement" to the administration of Sir Robert Peel. In South
Nottinghamshire an election also occurred, in which Lord Lincoln, a
political _protégé_ of Sir Robert's, was defeated by Mr. Hildyard, a
protectionist, by a very large majority. These events were supposed
to foreshadow the speedy demise of the Peel administration. In the
following month, Lord Lincoln was defeated at North Nottingham, polling
only two hundred and seventeen votes against one thousand seven hundred
and forty-two, polled by Lord H. Bentinck. During the early part of the
year, a serious revulsion took place in railway speculation; the rate
of money became high; a panic seized the speculators and adventurers in
such undertakings: in this way many incurred serious loss. The public
were startled in various parts of Great Britain by shocking railway
accidents, generally the result of carelessness on the part of the
officials, or deficient inspection and control on the part of directors.

On the 25th of May, her: majesty was safely delivered of a daughter.

Much interest was excited in June by a visit from Ibrahim Pasha, the
celebrated Egyptian prince and soldier. His highness inspected the
dockyards and public places, paid his respects to the court, and was
feted and entertained by public men, especially of the navy and army.

A public dinner was given to the postage reformer, Mr. Rowland Hill, on
the 17th of June, and a testimonial presented to him on the part of the
merchants of London, which (including a first instalment handed to him
in 1845) amounted to £13,360 19s. 5d.

On the 25th, the infant princess was baptised: the name given to her
was Helena Augusta Victoria. The sponsors were her Royal Highness the
Duchess of Kent, proxy for the Duchess of Orleans; his Royal Highness
the Hereditary Grand-duke of Mecklenburg-Strelitz; her Royal Highness
the Duchess of Cambridge.

Prince Albert visited the town and port of Liverpool, on the 30th, for
the purpose of opening the Albert Dock, and of laying the first stone of
the Sailors' Home. The reception of his royal highness was worthy of the
great commercial community by which he was invited.

August was ushered in by one of the most terrible hailstorms ever
witnessed in London. It lasted for more than three hours, and created
great devastation. Inundations spread, and the windows of the public
buildings were extensively shattered. The glass in the roof of the
picture-gallery at Buckingham Palace was totally destroyed; the damage
was estimated at £2000. In the Houses of Parliament and Westminster
Hall, seven thousand panes of glass were broken; in the head office
of police, Scotland Yard, three hundred; in Burford's panorama, ten
thousand. A Citizen steamer on the river was struck by lightning
off Battersea. The suburbs of London suffered from floods, hail, and
lightning, and the royal parks were much damaged, especially that at
Windsor.

Much interest was excited by the marine excursions taken by her majesty
during that summer to the Channel Islands, and various places on the
southern coast of England.

On the 29th of September, an event occurred in London which attracted
much attention. The equestrian statue of the Duke of Wellington, by
Wyatt, was removed from the artist's studio, in the Harrow Road, to the
Triumphal Arch, at Hyde Park Corner, where it was set upon the pedestal
prepared for it. The illustrious spectators in Apsley House were almost
as much objects of interest to the multitude below, as the colossal
statue erected to the honour of the hero of Waterloo.

The failure of the harvest throughout the British Isles caused in
England a profound sensation. Prayers set apart to be used in a time
of scarcity were offered up, and subscriptions for the poor were most
generously bestowed by those whose means were ample, and by many from
limited resources: British benevolence had been seldom seen to such
advantage. During the month of November tempestuous weather prevailed
along the coasts, causing many wrecks and much loss of life. Early in
December, the severity of winter fell upon the British Isles. On the
10th, the mercury was fourteen degrees below the freezing-point in
London. This severe weather added to the sufferings of the people,
already pressed by scarcity of food. In the Highlands of Scotland, and
in Ireland, stern destitution was experienced by the whole peasantry.

During the year many eminent persons died whose names shed a lustre on
British history. In January, the Eight Honourable John Hookham Frère,
M.A., expired, who had been ambassador to Spain at the beginning of the
century. His representations had much influence in inducing the English
government to set on foot the expedition to the peninsula, which shed
so much glory on the arms of Britain. Earl Granville, whose name is so
closely associated with English political and diplomatic history, also
died within the month. During the following month, the antiquary,
Gaily Knight, and General Sir Henry Clinton, G.C.B., were among the
celebrities who passed away. In the month of March, the decease of Mr.
Liston, the comedian, attracted public notice. In June, Haydon, the
celebrated painter, died by his own hand, impelled by want. He had
frequently been indebted to the generous-hearted liberality of Sir
Robert and Lady Peel for aid, and the last assistance he ever received
was from these compassionate benefactors, the friends of so many artists
and literary men, as well as of poor Haydon. The genius of this artist,
as well as the record of his misfortunes, will go down to posterity.
Soon after Haydon's melancholy death, in the month of July, "Charlotte
Elizabeth," the writer of so many beautiful religious books, was called
to her happy home. The same month, the Eight Honourable Sir George
Murray, the friend and companion of Wellington, in both his military and
political career, died in London. August witnessed the decease of the
veteran anti-reformer, Sir Charles Wetherell. In September Lord Metcalfe
died, regretted much by the political world; and Thomas Clarkson, the
philanthropist, to whose exertions in the first instance humanity was
indebted for the abolition of the slave-trade, also passed into rest. In
the last month of the year the Eight Honourable Thomas Grenville died
in his ninety-first year, after a political and diplomatic life very
eventful.

The year 1846 was replete with transactions of great historical
importance; at its close England stood with a crown of many victories
upon her brow, but with many cares and anxieties; the chief of these was
the distress in England, and wide-spread starvation in the Highlands of
Scotland and in Ireland. Another chapter will reveal how evils of such
magnitude were encountered.


CHAPTER LIX.

{VICTORIA. 1847}

     Colonial Affairs..... Foreign Relations..... State of
     Ireland: Progress of Famine and Disease; Political
     Agitation; Prevalence of Crime..... Death of O'Connell.....
     Old Ireland and Young Ireland Parties..... General State of
     Affairs in Great Britain..... Naval and Military Events.....
     Home Incidents..... Decease of Remarkable Persons.....
     Parliamentary Proceedings.


COLONIAL AFFAIRS.

{A.D. 1847}

It is convenient to notice first in order the colonial and foreign
relations of the country, as home events derived their character from
these; parliamentary and party proceedings, more especially, turned
often, in a great measure, upon the prospects and condition of our
colonies, and the relations which we bore to foreign powers. This was
less the case in 1846 and 1847 than in most other periods, because the
failure of the harvests, the consequent overwhelming distress through
out the British Isles, and the disaffection in Ireland, demanded the
most earnest attention of parliament and the ministry.

_India_.--The state of India, throughout this year, was one of
prosperity and peace. The Punjaub, however, created some disquietude,
and there were border disturbances within the acquired territory of
Scinde.

It will be recollected that in the last chapter the appointment of a
council of regency at Lahore was recorded. This body excited the ranee's
jealousy, whose disposition for intrigue was once more evoked; she
endeavoured to neutralise the action of the council. Representations
concerning this state of things were made to the governorgeneral, who
signified his approbation of the policy proposed by the council for
her exile from the capital. She was accordingly seized, and sent under
escort to a distance, where she' was detained, and Lahore and the
Punjaub were exempt from troubles throughout the year.

In Scinde the border tribes were restless, and made frequent predatory
incursions upon the British territory. On one occasion, a body of seven
hunded infantry and a troop of horse, headed by several chiefs, made
a foray. Lieutenant Merewether, of "the Scinde Irregular Horse," was
sent, at the head of about one hundred and thirty men, to observe, and,
if possible, disperse them. This gallant young officer came up with the
marauders in a locality unfavourable for immediate action; they were
moving in a direction which would have afforded them the protection
of some sand hills and jungle. Mr. Merewether rode along their front
without charging them, in order to gain their flank, and compel them to
keep the open plain, in a situation 'more favourable for the action
of cavalry. They did not understand this manouvre, and supposed it to
signify that the lieutenant did not deem it prudent to assail them.
Encouraged by this idea they attacked him, coming on with great
exultation. This gave the skilful and intrepid young officer the
advantage he desired; he wheeled to the left, formed his men in
an instant, charged, and cut up the enemy fearfully. The infantry
endeavoured to retreat; such of the horsemen as were left galloped away.
'Mr. Merewether allowed their infantry no opportunity to retire to a
position where they might receive cavalry advantageously; but still
acting upon their flank, and keeping them in the open plain, he again
and again charged, each time cutting them down as the mower cuts the
ripe hay. They were offered quarter, but with great bravery stood to
their arms, until not one-fourth of their original number remained; they
then laid down their weapons. Of the whole body, except the few horsemen
who became fugitives after the first charge, not one escaped destruction
or captivity. Lieutenant Merewether lost very few men; he himself
had miraculous escapes, for he was foremost in every charge, exposing
himself with the utmost audacity. This gallant little action drew
upon the young soldier 'the attention and commendation not only of
his superiors in authority, but of the army of India. The exploit was
recorded in the papers at home, and was the theme of every news-room and
club. The English people are always more quick to appreciate and reward
valour than their government.

Sir Charles Napier, after conquering Scinde by the highest military
daring and skill, ruled it with a rare political sagacity. His attempts
at military reform brought upon him the ill-will of the Indian military
authorities, and the directors at home. The reforms introduced by the
gallant general bore the impress of his genius and his indomitable will.
His prophetic predictions concerning the evils that would certainly
result from the state of discipline in which he found the Sepoy armies,
were, unfortunately, all fulfilled. In the memoir of this gallant
general, written by his brother, Lieutenant-general Sir William Napier,
the merits of the case are amply, although it must be admitted, not
dispassionately discussed. The material is, however, afforded for a
just judgment upon the controversy. It can hardly be doubted the gallant
general was insubordinate; that he assumed authority to which he was not
entitled, and ruled with a glorious and intellectual tyranny, which was
not the less a tyranny because of the genius by which it was directed.
The general's faults were, however, overlooked by his country, which was
served by him through an eventful life, with much honour to himself; it
is sad to say that his services as well as his errors were overlooked by
the government.

The public appreciation of him was just; they regarded him as a hero,
and a bold and skilful governor. His brother justly described the public
opinion of England when he wrote--"His fame has been accepted by the
British people as belonging to the glory of the nation."

Lord Hardinge did not long continue to govern India after Sir Charles
resigned the government of Scinde. Upon his resignation Lord Dalhousie
was appointed, through the especial influence of the Duke of Wellington.
This appointment has been described as the only job which the
illustrious duke ever perpetrated, and reasons were assigned for this
unsuited to the pages of this history. Lord Dalhousie possessed many
qualifications for his high office, but he was pedantic, had too jealous
a sense of the dignity of his office, and often refused to listen to
the advice of officers, well qualified to offer it, on military matters,
which, whatever might be the noble lord's opinions of his own parts,
were rather beyond his knowledge. He entered upon his government under
auspicious circumstances. The celebrated Akhbar Khan, the malignant
enemy of the English during the unfortunate affair at Cabul, died this
year, and made one less to the many opponents of British rule among the
chiefs of India and the contiguous countries.

_The Cape of Good Hope_.--The disturbances of the previous year were not
wholly quelled at the Cape. The Caffres continued to make forays within
the colony, and to plunder cattle. They were pursued and punished,
and considerable herds were recaptured. The feelings of all the Caffre
tribes were utterly hostile, and peace was only attainable by the
exercise of indisputable force.

_Our American Colonies_.--Peace and prosperity characterised the history
of our American colonial possessions during this year. The failure of
the potato crop caused some inconvenience and distress, but the general
agricultural and commercial success compensated for this disadvantage.
Security was also felt, as apprehension of a war with the United States
had entirely passed away. In the legislatures of Canada and Nova Scotia
there was, however, discontent with the measures of the governors of
these colonies, and the imperial administration and legislature. This
discontent found vent in orations, and through the columns of the press,
but did not disturb colonial tranquillity nor interrupt the progress of
government: those free countries were gradually laying the foundation
for a future and a glorious period of wealth and greatness.

_Borneo_.--It was again necessary to chastise the Borneo pirates. On the
30th the British steam frigate _Nemesis_ engaged a fleet of Soluprahus,
off Labuam The ship was crossing over to Labuan from Brune, with the
rajah of Sarawak on board. When off the island of Moora the _Nemesis_
came suddenly upon a fleet of eleven pirate boats, pursuing a trading
prahu. The _Nemesis_ chased the pirates to the shore, who drew up in
line along the beach. The pirates first opened the combat. For about two
hours the cannonade lasted; when the fire of the prahus was subdued, the
marines and sailors proceeded in boats to finish the destruction of the
pirate craft. Five of these war prahus were destroyed, and about eighty
pirates killed, and perhaps as many wounded. The rest and their crews
escaped, but the boats were much disabled. From the guns and other
material captured, it was plain that a Dutch merchant ship of
considerable value had fallen into the pirates' hands. Some operations
on shore speedily followed, from which the robbers suffered severely.
One British seaman was killed, and seven wounded.


FOREIGN RELATIONS.

The conduct of the Chinese, ever since the peace executed by Sir Henry
Pottinger, had been such as to show that the treaty was not intended to
be kept by the authorities any longer than force constrained, and that
with the people all intercourse with foreigners on equal terms was
unpopular. During 1846 unoffending Europeans at Canton were frequently
attacked, and on one occasion the factories were stormed, and only
after a protracted conflict did the Europeans and Americans succeed in
expelling the assailants. The government of Canton always affected to
deprecate this violence on the part of the Cantonese, and as far as
proclamations went there was a magnificent display of justice. Several
Englishmen and other foreigners were murdered, and certain innocent
Chinese were seized and executed by the mandarins, while the murderers
were notoriously at large. In 1847 the merchants, who had often in vain
called for protection and redress from the British government, drew up a
memorial of their wrongs, which induced Sir John Davis, the governor
of Hong-Kong, to interfere on their behalf. Sir Robert Peel and Lord
Aberdeen seemed to adopt the policy of submitting to any indignities
the Chinese government or people might offer, rather than interrupt
commercial relations, or create any embarrassment at home. Possibly the
state of parties and the general distress at home may have influenced
the premier and the foreign minister to adopt this course, but its
result was injurious to British interests and to humanity; it entailed a
still greater interruption of commerce, and involved a larger sacrifice
of human life.

The demands of the merchants were:--1. A distinct recognition of their
rights to go such distance into the surrounding country as could be
traversed, either by land or water, in one day out and home; and full
protection during such period from attack or insult.--2. A space of
ground of about fifty acres at Honan, or in some other convenient part
of the suburbs, for the erection of warehouses and dwelling-houses.--3.
A site for a church and church-yard * for British residents.

     * By a "church yard" was meant a burial-ground attached to
     the church, for Europeans only.

--4. A burial-ground for the Parsee community, either on Dares or French
Island, of forty thousand square feet.--5. A bridge to be thrown over
the passage of Hog Lane, to connect the two factory gardens.--6. A
cook-house for Lascars in Hog Lane.--7. The railing in of Lower China
Street and the lower part of Hog Lane, and the garden walls to be kept
free from Chinese buildings, excepting the military and police stations
already erected.--8. Removal of the stationary boats which at present
encumber the avenue to the factory gardens at the river-side.

Sir John Davis determined upon seeking redress for the various insults
and outrages which had been inflicted, whatever might be the propriety
of requesting the concession of such advantages as the merchants sought.
In the opinion of Sir John, who knew the Chinese well, no demand would
meet with attention which was not backed with military force. Orientals
comprehend only that argument which Europeans regard as the _dernier
resort_. The Chinese authorities were taken by surprise, or they would
have prepared for resistance, and met the military demonstration of the
English governor with defiance or stratagem. Major-general D'Aguilar
commanded the British troops. As soon as he received the directions of
the plenipotentiary, he consulted with Captain M'Dougall in command of
her majesty's ship _Vulture_. These officers agreed that the force at
their disposal was inadequate to the enterprise, but that, as audacity
and promptitude were the best weapons with oriental nations, it would
be well to act at once with such forces as they could employ. General
D'Aguilar considered it also important to impress practically upon the
mind of the Chinese authorities the possibility of the garrison and the
naval force at Hong-Kong being sufficient, without aid from India
or England, to chastise any affronts or injuries offered to British
persons, honour, or interests. It had been well if, in subsequent
events, similar views had been entertained by British officers and
British governments. The promptitude of the general's action harmonised
with the wisdom and boldness of his opinion. By midnight of the day
on which he received his orders, the troops were embarked; and at nine
o'clock the following morning the squadron arrived at the Bocca Tigris.
The _Vulture_ then lowered her boats, into which the general ordered two
detachments, the one under Lieutenant-colonel Brereton, the other under
his own immediate orders. On landing, all the batteries were seized,
the guns spiked, the ammunition destroyed, and the garrisons sent,
unmolested, away. This bold measure was necessary to the safety of the
general's small force, for had he left these batteries in his rear, his
return would have been endangered. At six o'clock, the squadron arrived
at Whampoa. As the _Vulture_ was of too large a draught to proceed
higher, the troops were placed on board the steamers _Pluto_ and
_Corsair_. Sir John Davis accompanied the general in the _Pluto_. At
eleven o'clock the squadron arrived before several forts, which were
attacked. Lieutenant-colonel Brereton, landing, took two of them by
a _coup de main_, blowing in the gates with gunpowder, and instantly
seizing and spiking the guns. General D'Aguilar and his party were
received by the other two forts with round and case shot, but the
boats pushed in, blew open the gates, and spiked the guns, the garrison
retreating by the rear. The expedition then proceeded to the French
Folly Fort, a stronger place than any of those already captured, and
situated on one of the narrowest bends of the river. The British swooped
down upon this place as an eagle upon its prey, and their rapidity was
rewarded by its immediate capture, for a few minutes delay and the
guns of the work would have given our troops a reception more warm than
welcome. Four other batteries were taken and spiked on their way up
river by the general and commodore, and by six o'clock in the evening
the troops were landed in the factories. Eight hundred and seventy-nine
pieces of Chinese cannon had been spiked, to the amazement of the
enemy, who had no time to recover from the panic into which so sudden an
incursion threw them. The general, upon landing, placed the factories
in a state of efficient defence by barricades, and such other means as
were at his immediate command. The Chinese commissioner, Keying, now
waited upon Sir John Davis, but refused to comply with his demands; the
next day, however, the high commissioner requested another day's delay.
This was granted, and the terms demanded were ultimately agreed to
by the commissioner. General D'Aguilar withdrew the troops, except a
company of sappers, and the light company of the 18th royal regiment of
the line. These were ordered to remain until what was promised should be
fully executed. This feat of the English general's was one of the most
dashing ever executed with so small a body of men. The whole military
force did not amount to one thousand men, and the naval force could only
afford a few hundred sailors and marines for land operations. Audacity
and rapidity carried the day--the grand secret of success in Asiatic
warfare.

The Chinese, however, had no intention of observing the treaty; and
when all appeared to be adjusted, six British subjects, who made a
short excursion, in agreement with one of its clauses, were barbarously
murdered. They were attacked by the whole population of the place
which they visited. The Englishmen, when at last compelled to defend
themselves, slew one and wounded several of their assailants. It
required much negotiation to secure the punishment of some of the
murderers, four of whom were decapitated, and a few others received
minor punishments.

Whenever the French found that the British displayed vigour towards the
Chinese, they made out a grievance, and sent an armed force to demand
redress somewhere. Their object seemed to be to show that France also
was a great nation, and could enforce respect. Two French ships of war
appeared in the Bay of Touron during this year, to demand redress
from the government of Cochin China, for injuries alleged to have been
inflicted upon French Roman Catholic priests. Their demand not having
been at once complied with, and some treachery on the part of the
natives having been detected, the French ships opened fire upon the
war-junks, sinking and destroying many, and slaying more than a thousand
men.

The conduct of the Chinese to Europeans generally, during the year 1847,
kept them, the British more especially, in a constant sense of danger.
Applications were made for reinforcements, but, notwithstanding the
prodigious armaments of England in India, and her resources elsewhere,
it was with extreme difficulty that any additional force could be
obtained. The following parliamentary papers show the perilous routine
necessary on every occasion when our officers require even the most
paltry reinforcement. General D'Aguilar applied to Major-general Smelt,
the officer commanding at Ceylon, for two guns and a few artillerymen.
In a month after, General Smelt wrote to Lord Fitzroy Somerset, the
military secretary at the Horse-Guards, informing him that if
he (General Smelt) _heard again_ from General D'Aguilar that the
reinforcement was necessary, he would send it! but that, in doing so, he
should leave Ceylon all but utterly unprotected, so far as artillery
was concerned. Lord Torrington, the governor of Ceylon, at the same
time communicated this "great fact"--that two guns and a few men were
wanting at Hong-Kong--to Earl Grey, the colonial minister, who, at the
latter end of November, sent a despatch to General D'Aguilar, telling
him not to do anything against the Chinese without authority from
home! The discretionary power in the hands of Sir John Davis, and the
promptitude, energy, and enterprise of the general, obtained, with less
bloodshed than frequently occurred in a street riot in Canton, redress
of grievances, a recognition of rights, and a series of important
concessions. If it had been necessary to refer these disputes to the
Colonial Office at home, everything would have been frustrated. Possibly
a grand expedition, at an enormous expense, would have gone out in a
year or so afterwards, and an expenditure of British as well as
Chinese life on a large scale have resulted. In spheres so distant, men
thoroughly competent to act ought, in both civil and military matters,
to be appointed, and the honour of the country should be committed to
their hands. With a small force, complete in itself, at the disposal
of such men, more could be effected at the moment for the honour and
interests of the country than by long and roundabout despatches, passing
through so many hands that one fool in authority nullifies all, as a bad
link in an otherwise good chain renders the whole useless. Omitting
the other portions of the correspondence, the following letter
from Major-general D'Aguilar, dated Hong-Kong, August 21, 1847, to
Major-general Smelt, reveals sufficiently the incompetent arrangements
for British interests in China, in 1847:--

"Although I have not the pleasure of your personal acquaintance, your
character and services are so well known to me, that I venture to
address you without form or ceremony. I have every reason to hope that
things will settle down here peaceably, but I have no positive assurance
of it; and if circumstances should occur to oblige me to go to Canton
again, I am but badly off for artillery. I can never hope to surprise
the Chinese defences a second time; and whatever I do must be done in
form, and with reference to the altered position of things.

"Under these circumstances, I write to ask if you can spare me half a
company of artillery, with their proportionate number of field-guns
and ammunition complete. I should only want them for six weeks, and I
promise you to send them faithfully back the moment the service is over.

"Should the contingency--the possibility of which is on the
cards--occur, I shall endeavour to avoid taking the field before the end
of November, when the cool weather will add strength to our exertions;
and I will take care to give you the earliest notice of my intention. In
the meantime, perhaps, you would kindly prepare Lord Torrington for this
request on my part, and afford me your interest in giving effect to it,
should circumstances render it necessary.

"A couple of 9-pounders, with the half-company of artillery, would be
the best; but if they are not to be had, then anything your people are
supplied with."

On receipt of the above, Major-general Smelt wrote as follows to
Lieutenant-general Lord Fitzroy Somerset.

The letter was dated Colombo, Ceylon, September 22nd, 1847:--

"I have the honour to inform your lordship that I received, two days
ago, a letter from Major-general D'Aguilar, commanding in China,
informing me that it is likely that he would require a reinforcement of
artillery in the event of operations being carried on at Canton towards
the end? of this year, and requesting me, if I could spare it, and
circumstances rendered it necessary, to afford him a half company of
artillery, with two 9-pounder guns complete, with ammunition, &c.

"I shall therefore be prepared, should I hear again from General
D'Aguilar that their services would actually be required, to send such
force as, in the present strength of artillery in this command, would
be in my power. But your lordship is aware that the whole amount of
artillery throughout this island only consists of two weak companies,
reduced in their number of Europeans in consequence of a proportion
of gun-lascars; and the only ordnance that I could spare, at present
equipped for service, are 4 2/5 inch howitzer guns, having neither
9-pounder nor 6-pounder guns, excepting two of the latter, which have no
carriages.

"Under these circumstances, and with the recommendation of his
excellency the governor, I should be able to afford a detachment of one
officer and twenty-five gunners, with a proportion of non-commissioned
officers and the two howitzers above mentioned. I am informed by General
D'Aguilar, who will give me the earliest notice of his plans, that he
would only require this force for six weeks, and that it should be sent
back to me immediately the service is over; in the meantime, as this
draft would reduce my strength of European artillerymen in this island
by about one-third, I shall, in order to repair the deficiency, cause a
portion of the soldiers from the line regiment, equal to about five men
per company, to be trained and exercised at the gun drill.

"I have to add that a draft of one hundred and twenty men of the Ceylon
Rifle Regiment are under orders, and will probably sail the end of this
month for Hong-Kong, to complete the six companies at present serving
there to their full complement of one hundred rank and file; these
companies having been sent to China so much under their establishment
with a view to their being completed by recruits sent from Singapore,
but the uncertain state of things there rendering it quite necessary now
that trained soldiers should be sent from this place, which I trust will
meet with the approbation of his grace the commander-inchief."

The foregoing offer of assistance was finally countermanded by Earl
Grey, in a despatch to Major-general D'Aguilar, dated Colonial Office,
November the 24th, 1847:--

"The governor of Ceylon has communicated to me an application which you
have made to the major-general commanding her majesty's troops in that
island, for a reinforcement of half a company of artillery, with two
guns, and a proportionate supply of ammunition, to be held in readiness
to be forwarded to Hong-Kong, should circumstances render it necessary
to undertake any further military operations at Canton.

"I have desired the governor of Ceylon not to send to Hong-Kong the
detachment for which you have made application; and I have further to
signify to you that her majesty's government peremptorily forbid you to
undertake any further offensive operations against the Chinese without
their previous sanction. Her majesty's government are satisfied that,
although the late operations in the Canton River were attended with
immediate success, the risk of a second attempt of the same kind would
far overbalance any advantage to be derived from such a step. If the
conduct of the Chinese authorities should, unfortunately, render another
appeal to arms inevitable, it will be necessary that it should be made
after due preparation, and with the employment of such an amount of
force as may afford just grounds for expecting that the objects which
may be proposed by such a measure will be effectually accomplished
without unnecessary loss."

Lord Grey was right, that a similar expedition, if made with the same
force, would probably fail. General D'Aguilar knew that rather better
than Lord Grey, and did not need a pompous despatch from the Colonial
Office to inform him of it. But the general did not mean to attempt
the same thing with the same force, and therefore sent for aid where he
might naturally have expected to derive the little he sought. There
can be no doubt that if matters had been left to the general's own
discretion, and his forces been adequately strengthened, he would
have performed what was proper to the occasion, and, perhaps, all that
English safety and interests required, and thereby have averted future
conflict, as well as the humiliations which Englishmen had to endure,
and to punish at a great cost of treasure and immense sacrifice of
blood.

_France_.--The Spanish marriages caused stormy debates in the French
chambers, which reflected much moral discredit upon the King of the
French, his minister Guizot, his ambassador M. Bresson, the queen and
queen-mother of Spain, and Narvaez, the chief abettor and tool of the
faction of Christina. The eloquent denunciations of M. Thiers
against Guizot and his policy told upon the French mind, and led to
modifications in the cabinet; but this clever invective was purely in
the spirit of party: the honour of France and the love of truth were as
little considered by the one leader as the other. The British government
maintained an attitude of coldness to that of France, but it was not
possible to act independently of it: in many of the affairs of other
countries to which England stood related, and in every instance, the
influence of the French king was prejudicial to the interests and moral
influence of England. On the completion of the Spanish marriages M.
Bresson returned to Paris, and had the impudence to demand, as his
reward for his share in that transaction, the embassy to London. This
was refused, on the ground that the relations of France to Great Britain
were too delicate to be committed to the minister who had the chief part
in producing the coldness which existed. He then demanded the embassy to
St. Petersburg, but this post required higher qualifications than were
conceded to M. Bresson by his government. He was nominated to the
French ministry at Naples, and proceeded to his destination reluctantly,
considering the appointment a slight after sustaining French affairs
with the government of a superior country. Soon after he arrived at
Naples, perceiving the evil consequences of the Spanish marriages, his
chagrin was so increased that he put an end to his own existence.

_Spain and Portugal_.--Spain passed a year of disorder and bad
government, but, excepting as regarded the affairs of Portugal,
England had no especial connection with the proceedings of the Spanish
government. The state of Portugal was desperate. The Miguellites and
liberals continued to maintain the civil war against the queen. The
former were repeatedly defeated. Their leader, M'Donnell, perceiving
that all hope of inducing the party to adopt measures sufficiently bold
were at an end, collected around him a chosen band, and precipitating
himself upon the queen's cavalry, fell fighting sword in hand. The
radical or constitutional party made their head-quarters at Oporto,
where they set at defiance the queen's government. Meanwhile the French
and Spanish governments were desirous to interfere on behalf of the
queen, whose opinions and sympathies were despotic, and in harmony
with those of the French king and the Spanish queen. To prevent such
an interference the English government reluctantly consented to a joint
interference of England and Spain only. Accordingly, the British navy
co-operated with a Spanish army for the purpose of putting down all
armed opposition to the queen's government, at the same time obtaining
indemnification for all in arms against her majesty, and a guarantee on
the part of her majesty, by her solemn promise and the dismission of her
reactionary ministry, that she would respect the constitutional rights
of her people. This was effected, and Louis Philippe was balked of his
desire to interfere in Portugal to promote a reactionary policy. The
queen, however, did not keep faith with her allies; she did not dismiss
her government until the English minister made such demands as compelled
compliance. Peace was by these measures restored to Portugal; but no
party within or beyond the bounds of her kingdom had any confidence in
the good faith, good sense, or good feeling of the queen.

Lord Palmerston was much censured as the originator of the British
policy in Portugal, but an impartial examination of the course he took
will show that it was politic, and that by it he enforced upon Portugal
the only plan possible to secure her independence of foreign despotic
interference, and her release from internecine war. Portugal was
saved for the time, and the designs of Louis Philippe were permanently
baffled.


STATE OF IRELAND.--PROGRESS OF FAMINE AND DISEASE.

The year 1847 opened upon Ireland in many respects as gloomily as that
which preceded. During the early months of the year the weather was very
severe, and this added materially to the miseries of an already famine
and disease-stricken people. The most heart-rending events connected
with these disasters occurred everywhere throughout the country. The
government continued its efforts for the mitigation of the prevailing
evils; but the plans put forth for this object were not always wise, and
the conduct of the people, high and low, baffled the projects of relief.
All the mischievous proceedings of a social nature narrated in the
previous chapter continued, and many of them were aggravated. The result
was that great numbers perished in all parts of the country, especially
in the south and west; and philanthropic men in Europe, in America,
and throughout the whole world where civilised man dwelt, perused the
records of Ireland's sufferings and infatuation with horror and awe.
This state of matters continued even to the harvest, and although there
was then the prospect of abundant crops, that circumstance neither
revived the hopes, nor assuaged the political rancour, of the people.
Late in the month of June a clergyman addressed a letter to a Dublin
newspaper, describing the condition of the peasantry in his locality,
and it but too faithfully depicts the sufferings prevalent in most other
places. It was as follows:--"The population of the district for which I
would plead amounted at the last census to eight thousand seven hundred
souls, but, owing to the dreadful ravages of famine and disease, it is
generally considered that two thousand have perished during the
past brief season of unexampled horror. Notwithstanding the relief
administered through the medium of public works, and the subsequent
distribution of rations, many instances have recently occurred of horses
being stolen and destroyed for human food, and great distress still
extensively prevails. During previous years, every available spot of
land was alternately cultivated with potatoes and wheat or oats; but
this year, owing to the utter destitution of the farmers, generally
speaking, it is computed that one-third of the land last year under
the potato crop still lies waste, while almost all the stubble ground
remains untouched. If then, after the harvest of last year, when all the
existing tillage was cultivated, and some proportion of the potato crop,
such as it was, was available for food, such wholesale destruction of
human life has taken place in this district, under circumstances of
such a character that their mere recital fills the mind with horror and
dismay--if, after two thousand have been swept away by the devastating
power of famine and disease, four thousand eight hundred and twenty-nine
of the survivors are at this moment kept from impending death by the
daily distribution of rations,--what are we reasonably to anticipate for
the time to come, unless prompt and energetic measures are adopted to
provide means for sustaining those who may be spared?"


CONTINUED POLITICAL AGITATION.--DREADFUL PREVALENCE OF CRIME.

Unfortunately, the progress of crime and outrage kept pace with that of
famine and pestilence, until the moral condition of the people seemed to
be worse than their physical. Men were murdered in the open day, in the
presence of numbers who made no effort to stop the deed of blood, and
who would make no revelations to the officers of justice calculated to
bring punishment upon the coldblooded assassins. The motives for these
sanguinary outrages were various: sometimes it was purely agrarian;
sometimes for the purpose of plundering food or money. Some were
murdered from purely political hostility, and others on account of
their prominence in religious movements distasteful to the people.
Intolerance, contempt for law, a sense of wrong under the influence of
the laws of landlord and tenant then in existence, and despair caused by
their sufferings, constituted the incentives to atrocities which threw a
hue of blood and gloom over the pages of Irish history.

The political differences which had long rent the country were
exasperated, although men of all sects and parties united with equal
zeal for the relief of the poor. No charities seemed to soften the heart
of the Irish peasant towards those who entered strongly into political
or religious combinations to which he was averse.

The new political disputes gathered strength; the different sections
of repealers waged not only a wordy war with one another, as in the
previous year, but the "Old Irelanders" frequently committed outrages
upon the "Young Irelanders," characterised by insolent intolerance and
ferocity.

Foreign nations saw, with admiration, the magnitude of the scale upon
which government extended relief. By an act of parliament a loan of
eight millions sterling was contracted by government for the purpose
of mitigating the wants of Ireland. On the first of March it was
adjudicated; Messrs. Barings and Rothschilds having coalesced, they
were declared the contractors. The loan was in 8 per cent. Consols; the
bidding was 89 1/2. The total amount of stock created by the transaction
was £8,938,548. The annual charge for the dividend was £268,156 8s.
10d. The scrip, which opened at 2 premium, rapidly fell to discount, and
gradually declined, showing the feeling of the monied interest regarding
the monetary prospects of the period as affected by Ireland. The
commercial distress in Ireland, partly consequent upon the famine and
partly upon the general causes then operating in England, was extensive
and profound. Heavy failures, in connection with houses of much
reputation, shook the general credit, and aggravated the other existing
influences by which suffering was originated or increased.

A new form of lawlessness appeared along the Irish coasts. Piracy had
not been known there for a great length of time: the coast-guards and
revenue cutters prevented that crime, as well as smuggling; but, early
in the spring, formidable piratical attempts were made along an extended
line of coast. Generally such attempts were frustrated when any weapons
of offence were possessed by the attacked; for these enterprises,
although furtive and made by considerable numbers, were seldom conducted
or maintained with spirit. Thus, in April, the _Christian_, while on
her passage from Liverpool to Westport, with a cargo of Indian corn, was
suddenly boarded, seven or eight miles off Broadhaven, by three boats'
crews, who broke up the hatches, and carried away thirty-three bags of
corn. On the following day they again approached, but the circumstance
of the master presenting a gun was sufficient to deter them from any
attempt to board. The men effecting these robberies seem to have been
actuated by distress; they seldom committed violence, and bore all the
aspect of famine and despair.


DEATH OF O'CONNELL.

The political events of the year were much influenced in every way by
the absence of Mr. O'Connell from public life, and by his death. Early
in the year his powers of mind and body became so much enfeebled, that
his physicians insisted upon his leaving London, and upon his excluding
all intelligence concerning Ireland. In obedience to these directions,
he took up his abode at Hastings; but, although some intervals of
apparent recovery occurred, he sank gradually until the imminency of his
danger became evident to his friends and to himself. He had a wish to
live, probably that he might continue the struggle for the great object
of his life--the ascendancy of his religion, and the greater political
power of his country. As the spring advanced, his friends were of
opinion that a journey to Italy might benefit him; he, believing that
his illness was fatal, wished to go to Rome, that he might die there
with the blessing of the pope to sanctify the closing scene. His illness
increased so rapidly that he was not able to reach Rome, and died
at Genoa. A _post mortem_ examination revealed that his brain was
extensively diseased, accounting for the melancholy which pervaded his
illness. Old age, the failure of his hopes, prophecies, and schemes
after the Emancipation Act, and deep mental anxieties about the distress
of his country, the divisions in the repeal party, and the hopelessness
of his agitation, caused his death. He had attained a good old age
(seventy-four), and departed this life on the 15th of May. His latest
anxieties were lest he should be buried alive, and he gave to his
confessor, physician, and servant, constant and peculiar directions
to guard against such a casualty. His heart he bequeathed to Rome! The
tidings of his death reached Dublin on the 25th. Immediately placards
were issued from Conciliation Hall, and were posted in town and country,
announcing the event. The people gathered in crowds wherever a placard
was seen, and perused it with deep sorrow, the men moving silently away,
or gathering in groups to talk earnestly concerning the deceased and
the prospects of their country--the women in many cases uttering loud
lamentations. The bells of the Roman Catholic chapels tolled mournfully,
and arrangements were made to offer public prayers for the soul of the
deceased. Probably there was not a Roman Catholic in Ireland that
did not privately offer such petitions upon the reception of the
intelligence. The Repeal Association summoned an especial meeting to
prepare an address to the people of Ireland suitable to the occasion.
The corporation met and adjourned for three weeks as a mark of respect.
The Roman Catholics of Ireland, and such Protestants as were considered
liberal, made every manifestation of respect for the memory of the great
leader. Ireland, in the midst of her starvation and sickness, felt a
still deeper sorrow--the whole land appeared in mourning.

The mortal remains of the great popular chief were conveyed to Dublin,
and on the 5th of August they were interred in the Glassnevin Cemetery.
The day preceding the Reverend Dr. Miley preached his funeral sermon at
the Metropolitan Chapel, Marlborough Street. It was an eloquent eulogy
upon the character of the departed; his errors, personal and political,
were passed over, and the idea pervaded the discourse that the departed
was a martyr and saint.

The funeral procession was one of the most remarkable which had ever
been witnessed in Ireland,--when the character of the deceased, his
influence upon public affairs, the national feeling, the intense
curiosity excited, and the conduct of the ceremonial, were considered.
At twelve o'clock the corpse was removed from the Metropolitan Chapel.
The procession was a mile and a half (Irish) in length, composed of the
Trades' Unions on foot, followed by the triumphal car which had been
used to convey him from Richmond Penitentiary to his house in Merrion
Square, when his acquittal of the charge upon which he had been
incarcerated was pronounced by the House of Lords. The coffin was placed
on a large open hearse, constructed with very little regard to taste.
The hearse was covered with rich Genoa velvet. It was immediately
followed by the family of the deceased, his personal and political
friends, and a large assembly of the Roman Catholic bishops and clergy.
All along the route to Glassnevin, multitudes were assembled in the
streets and windows, and even upon the house-tops. Persons came from
very great distances in the country to be present at the interment,
or take some part in the ceremonial. At the cemetery the services
appropriate to the Roman Catholic religion were conducted, and the
coffin was consigned to a vault prepared for its reception. The site
selected for the place of sepulture was the best which the cemetery
afforded, and the whole scene was solemn and impressive. It was a public
funeral, worthy of a great man, by a people whom he had zealously,
faithfully, and disinterestedly served. It was computed that one hundred
thousand persons were present. There was a deep gloom upon the people
when the ceremony was over. The religious ceremonies prescribed by the
Roman Catholic Church for eminent persons deceased, were continued for a
considerable time.

Thus passed away a man whose name will long remain upon the pages of his
country's history, and whose influence upon the whole empire of Great
Britain was greater than was publicly recognised at the time, and than
historians have since recorded.

The fate of the reform bill very much depended upon the support accorded
to it by Daniel O'Connell. It is probable that the bill would have been
lost without the support of the Irish liberals, led by the agitator. To
the repeal of the corn laws he also rendered effective aid, although his
oratory in favour of that measure appeared to be less hearty than that
on behalf of the reform bill. The impression prevailed very extensively
among the great body of the free-traders that, while O'Connell agreed
with their theory, and deemed it politic to co-operate with them, he
did not regard it as immediately beneficial to Ireland, and did not
feel personally cordial to the movement. On many local church questions,
also, and to a very great extent, on colonial matters, the influence of
the Irish leader was felt in parliament by the parties most interested,
and by the governments. For a time the scale of office was held in his
hand; he made and unmade ministers. He was not corrupt, or place, power,
and pension might have been obtained by him and his. After his death
some members of his family did receive government situations, and even
before his death connexions of his obtained such advantages; but they
were in all cases fit for the posts to which they were appointed, and
filled them with honour--nor was the emolument much, in any case. On the
whole, the Whigs did not treat the family of O'Connell with gratitude.
He had more than once put them into power, and frequently, when the
certainty of their losing office without his aid occurred, he gave them
the requisite assistance. He was often--indeed, always--in some measure
their opponent; but this rather strengthened them in Great Britain,
while on great party divisions "the tail" was always to be relied upon
by the Whig cabinet. Never had a public man such opportunity of raising
himself to the most elevated offices, and securing emolument for himself
and his family--never were these temptations more faithfully resisted.
Yet O'Connell did not disdain office, and he especially valued promotion
and honours in his own profession: but these things were nothing to
him in comparison with what he regarded to be his mission. He was fully
convinced that God had raised him up for the especial purpose of serving
the Roman Catholic religion, and, in connection with that of serving his
country, he pursued this object with unswerving fidelity. If he could
have obtained high office, and thereby have inflicted no injury upon the
cause which he espoused, he would have eagerly sought a position in
the cabinet or on the bench; he would have been as much opposed to the
repeal of the union as Mr. Lucas, the editor of the _Tablet_, and other
English Roman Catholics, if he had believed that it would injure the
Roman Catholic religion. Many supposed that he was never sincere in
prosecuting repeal; while others, whose opportunities of judging were
ample, believed that he was most honest in that agitation: in fact,
both were right. As an Irishman, he had a desire that his country should
cease to be a province, and he probably believed that her resources,
moral, intellectual, and material, were sufficient to maintain the
dignity and power of a nation; it was also his conviction that the
repeal of the union would be a means of improving the government and
social condition of Ireland, but he chiefly regarded it as an instrument
for the aggrandisement of his religion. It would enable the Roman
Catholic party to suppress the distribution of Protestant tracts
and bibles, to silence Protestant controversialists, and to treat
bible-readers and circuit-preachers as vagabonds and disturbers of the
peace. O'Connell's speeches abound with expressions of opinion, that
it was the duty of the British government to do all these things in
deference to the wishes of the Roman Catholics, they being a majority.
He invariably held up all attempts to "proselyte the people" as a crime
which ought to be punishable by law; and where the government failed "to
protect the people from the bible men, saints, soupers, and fanatics"
(the names which he generally applied to earnest Protestants in his
abusive and bigoted polemical speeches), then the people should use
all means within the law--a sort of qualification never intended to be
accepted by those to whom it was addressed--"to put down" all persons
obnoxious to the religious hostility of the priests. In the earlier part
of his career he was accustomed, with the assistance of Brick, O'Dwyer,
and others of his followers, to disturb the religious public meetings
called by Protestants, especially associations for the distribution
of the bible. O'Connell and his colleagues would intrude upon such
meetings, often attended by a violent rabble, whose language and
behaviour on these occasions were coarse and brutal. The intruders would
propose amendments to the resolutions submitted to the members of these
societies, and make violent speeches at the meetings, full of ridicule
and abuse, which were loudly applauded by the mob, who forced their way
in to support these proceedings. When the advocates of the resolutions
attempted to reply, they were met by hootings, and sometimes by
violence. There was always a perfect understanding between the mob who
intruded below, and the gentlemen who made their way or were invited to
the platform. The latter affected to protest against the tumult while it
went on, but afterwards extenuated or denied it in the newspapers, or in
speeches elsewhere, averring that the clergymen and laymen, who convened
the meeting, were unable to answer the arguments of the Catholic
champions. In many of these meetings free discussion was secured,
and faithful reports of the arguments on both sides were published in
newspapers and pamphlets, with the result of shaking the faith of many
Roman Catholics in various parts of the country: the agitators, under
O'Connell's advice, then gave up this mode of procedure, and shunned all
such meetings. O'Connell also perceived that he had created a prejudice
against himself, his country, and his creed in England, by the violence
he connived at, and the bigotry which he uttered.

Repeal of the union, besides enabling him to accomplish the class of
religious objects thus described, would also have given him power
to transfer the funds of the Irish Established Church to the Roman
Catholic. He and most of his followers having loudly professed "the
voluntary principle," it may seem to readers, cognisant of that fact,
and unacquainted with the modes of procedure adopted by the Irish
popular party, as unlikely that those who composed it, or, at all
events, he who led it, would ever desire the establishment of the Roman
Catholic Church in Ireland. The truth is, that most of the men who
declaimed in favour of the voluntary principle were chiefly actuated,
like O'Connell himself, in their political agitation, by the desire and
hope of Roman Catholic ascendancy. The great repeal leader proved
at last that he was utterly insincere in these protestations of
voluntarism, for afterwards, during the English agitation concerning the
Maynooth grant, he turned "the voluntaries" and their principle into
open ridicule. He had served his turn of them, and then held them and
the principles he pretended in common with them to support, in derision.
Yet O'Connell was not a dishonest politician, apart from his religious
mission. He was a man to be trusted in political engagements; few public
men of the day would act with such truth and honour to party, and in any
purely political contest or interest. When the promotion of his Church
was concerned, his conduct proved that he believed a doctrine which he
often repudiated--that the end sanctified the means. He was educated
a Jesuit, was one in spirit, was allied with them in the purposes and
objects of his private life, and his public policy. If any considerable
amount of Romish influence could have been introduced to the British
cabinet, with the hope that it would become a permanent element in the
government of England, O'Connell would have been the deadliest enemy of
repeal: the Roman Catholic Church in Ireland would have put down repeal
as injurious to it. The Young Irelanders would have still agitated for
Irish independence; but they would have been mobbed, or assassinated, or
otherwise soon crushed as a party. The Protestants would then have been
the repealers. The argument of Mr. Lucas, that repeal would weaken
the Irish Roman Catholic body, through the influence of the English
government upon the colonies and foreign states, was that which
prevailed with so many Romanists of respectability in Ireland, and with
the English Roman Catholic party, in keeping them aloof from the repeal
agitation, and inducing them even to oppose it; nor was O'Connell
himself free from the effect of such a consideration. His professions of
the supreme value of repeal were based upon the conviction that it was
hopeless to overcome the religious hostility of the British people to
any increased influence of Romanism in the government; yet he lingered
on, hoping against this conviction, and feeling the difficulty, if not
desperation, of the task he imposed upon himself, declaring still that
he would only turn to repeal as the _dernier ressort_, and that his
first cry was "Justice to Ireland." Had everything been conceded which
was claimed, "Justice to Ireland" would still have been, the cry, on
the ground that, being an integral part of the United Kingdom, she was
entitled to see her religion established in a fair proportion of the
colonies, or placed on a par with the English Church in them all. With
O'Connell and with Ireland the grievances were religious; the social
evils of Ireland were abetted by many who were repealers: yet there was
a sense of political injustice, and a patriotic desire on the part of
O'Connell and the people for the glory of Ireland, so far as it was
not necessary to merge that in the glory of Rome. Civil and religious
liberty for Ireland and for the world were not desired by either the
Irish Roman Catholic party or their political champion. The spirit
of the speeches at Conciliation Hall, of the Irish press in that
interest,--even of the Irish press in the Whig service, which was
conducted by Romanists, and the tone of confidential conversation
among Irish Roman Catholics at that period, all proved this allegation.
Foreign despotisms, if Protestant, were abused and denounced; if Romish,
they were treated with respect, and sympathy in case of any disturbance
in their dominions; or if it were not for the moment politic to abet
their proceedings, their misdeeds were passed over in silence. All
the social wrongs and civil tyrannies practised at Rome were upheld as
warmly in Ireland, and especially in Conciliation Hall, as they could
have been in the conclave of cardinals. One of the favourite topics
of the day among the Roman Catholics of Ireland, even amidst their
sufferings, during 1847, (and subsequently still more so), was the
prospect of the Roman Catholic religion becoming the established
religion of the United States, through the instrumentality of the Irish
and German Roman Catholics of the immigration. While they cried aloud
for religious equality for themselves, they carried on in Ireland a
fierce and brutal religious persecution, which was only restrained by
the influence of the more enlightened and liberal laymen of their own
communion, and by fear of the law; the impolicy of such a cause was not
sufficient to check the raging zealotry which so extensively prevailed.
All this O'Connell sanctioned and fostered, and, except when doing so
would hamper his policy or political relations in England, he invited
it.

Intellectually, O'Connell was a giant. His grasp of mind was
comprehensive and tenacious; and he was capable of reasoning clearly
whenever his religious bias allowed of his doing so dispassionately.
His perception was quick, keen, and discriminating, especially where
character was concerned. His knowledge of human nature was profound,
although he had not been a successful student of metaphysics. His
eloquence was more varied than that of any other man of his times; and
he possessed the faculty of adapting himself to his audience, and to the
changing feelings of an audience, to a degree which few men ever attain.
In a moment he could melt a popular audience to tears or convulse it
with laughter. He could be plain or ornate, coarse or courteous. The
eloquence of invective and vituperation was carried by O'Connell to a
very inglorious perfection. His eulogies were as dextrous and expressive
as they were, nevertheless, morally repugnant to honest minds. The
writer of these lines has heard him address a mob of peasants in the
county of Waterford on repeal, and an assembly of Quakers, Methodists,
and "other sectaries," as he would himself call them, in the city of
Cork, on an anti-slavery occasion, with equal effect. His broad-brimmed
and sedate audience were as much delighted with his elegant and pathetic
eloquence in favour of humanity and natural rights, as his peasant mob
were while he discoursed to them upon the certainty and glory of repeal,
and declared that "they were the finest peasantry in the world." On the
one occasion his action was graceful, and at times expressive even
to sublimity; on the other, it was bold and broadly natural, nor less
expressive of the passion he felt or simulated, and endeavoured to
excite. He possessed the oratory necessary for an Irish tribune, and
that which was adapted to the English senator: In his profession he
held a high place. Having given up his life to politics and polemics, he
could not have become a first authority in law, but he was unsurpassed
as a counsel, especially in criminal cases. Most men thought that he had
not the mental and moral qualities necessary for the bench, while he
was pre-eminently the man of the bar. This, however, is hardly a fair
estimate of him. He possessed in a remarkable degree all those qualities
in an advocate which entitle him to cherish the ambition of becoming
a judge. From the judgment-seat, when his bigotry did not blind him,
O'Connell would have given charges as luminous and just as his speeches
in court were powerful specimens of effective advocacy. His general
attainments were very considerable. The writer of this history once took
part in a conversation where O'Connell displayed a knowledge of Biblical
criticism, and a capacity to apply what knowledge of that description
which he possessed, which was very astonishing. On the same occasion
he brought forth stores of ecclesiastical history, which proved that,
although his studies had been confined to a particular school on
that subject, his reading within the limits of that school were very
extensive, and his memory altogether extraordinary. He had the faculty
of attaching men strongly to him, not only as a party-leader, but as a
man and a friend. Many thought him jealous of the fame of other orators
of his time; but there is no just ground for this. No man approached him
in reputation except Richard Lalor Shiel. O'Connell did not betray
in public any jealousy of this great oratorical rival; but he often
indicated, where he did not profess it, a distrust of his good faith--
and the suspicions of the leader were not ill founded: Shiel was never
in earnest in his arguments for the separation of the Irish from the
English parliament, but preferred the policy of infusing Roman Catholic
influence: he also preferred a high imperial position to that of a
provincial demagogue. This, in the opinion of the Irish popular party,
was treason to Ireland; and no doubt O'Connell sympathised with that
feeling, and suspected that the man second only in power to himself
was neither so ardent an Irishman or Roman Catholic as his countrymen
desired him to be. This feeling on O'Connell's part will account for
many acts towards Shiel which were set down to personal jealousy. Dr.
Michelsen is very unjust to O'Connell in the following critique upon his
character:--"His greatest fault was no doubt his egotism; he could not
endure a rival at his side, and would not have hesitated to annihilate
any one who did not follow him with implicit obedience." O'Connell would
have hailed with delight any accession of eloquence or personal power
to Conciliation Hall; but a particular policy had been arranged between
O'Connell and the priests--they intrusted their cause to him, and when
men started up and questioned, or attempted to modify this policy,
O'Connell regarded it as rebellion, not merely against his leadership,
but his party, and the church itself; hence, it was necessary for him to
put down the disturber; and he was backed by clergy and people in doing
so, which would not have been the case had not the understanding between
him and the Roman Catholic hierarchy of Ireland been complete. Dr.
Michelsen again says:--"It is a mistake to suppose that O'Connell
entertained an irreconcilable hatred to England; he had never ceased to
regard her as his second fatherland, as the land of his glory, of his
intellectual activity. His partiality for England was only surpassed by
his excessive love for his native home, and many apparent contradictions
in his life can only be reconciled by this double sympathy in his
character."*

     * "England since the Accession of Queen Victoria," by Edward
     H. Michellen, Ph.D.

It is obvious that the writer of this paragraph has neither studied
O'Connell, his country, or the party which he led. One of the grand
causes of O'Connell's failure in many things was his rancorous hatred
to England. Thomas Gaspey, Esq., in his "History of England," views this
matter correctly in writing of O'Connell's death, and the feeling in
England concerning him:--"In England his departure was regarded with
indifference. The hostility and scorn he frequently expressed for the
Saxons, and his disparaging remarks on English women, had precluded him
from gaining any of the popularity he had enjoyed in Ireland."

The hatred of O'Connell to England was threefold--that of race, of
nation, and of creed. He regarded England as the chief abettor of heresy
in the world, and therefore would have rejoiced over her downfall;
this was the common feeling of his party. So far as his animosity was
connected with race and nationality, it was not unprovoked. The English
people cherished deep prejudices against Ireland and the whole Celtic
race; and the English newspapers frequently discussed the universal
claims of the Anglo-Saxon to dominancy, and every social and national
virtue, thereby creating a feeling of resentment in all countries where
these articles were reprinted. The chief invidiousness, however, was
to the Celt, and among Celts to the Irishman. This circumstance made
repealers of numbers of Irishmen who were neither Celtic in race nor
Roman in creed.


MR. JOHN O'CONNELL ASSUMES THE PRESIDENCY OF THE REPEAL
ASSOCIATION--INFLUENCE OF THE REPEAL AGITATION UPON THE GENERAL
ELECTIONS IN IRELAND.

The death of Mr. O'Connell, it was generally supposed in England, would
allow agitation in Ireland to die of itself. Others supposed that it
would now assume a worse form, in consequence of the absence of those
restraints which the superior sagacity of the arch agitator laid upon
the more fiery and imprudent ringleaders. The latter opinion was the
correct one, and the people of England were astonished to find that Mr.
O'Connell's son John not only became the chairman at Conciliation Hall,
but the recognised leader of the agitation. The priests gave him their
confidence, and, at first, the people very generally; but he was not
possessed of those qualities which enabled him to hold the reins of
power. As Richard Cromwell to the deceased Oliver, so John O'Connell
exhibited a contrast to his father, which soon caused the people to fall
off from his leadership: his name, and the influence of the priests,
were the means of retaining it for him for a time. After the death
of his father, the temporary inheritor of his position indicated
much energy and activity, although, even in this respect, none of the
agitators approached their late chief: O'Connell's powers of physical
endurance and toil had been prodigious.

A general election, the policy of which will be noticed on another
page, called out the leadership of John O'Connell, and the action of the
committee at Conciliation Hall, in a manner to test whether the people
were disposed to follow them. The general impression in England was,
that the popular fervour had ebbed, and that the repeal members would
not generally be returned: the English press made confident predictions
to that effect. John O'Connell and the clique at Conciliation Hall
accepted the ordeal, and were backed by priests and people in their
policy. An extraordinary meeting was convened, and an address to the
electors of Ireland resolved upon. It was a document which ought to
be retained upon the page of history, for it discloses the spirit and
temper of the repeal party, and of the Roman Catholic electors who
responded practically to such an appeal. The repealers, as has been
already shown, were not confined to Roman Catholics, nor were all
that communion repealers; but, on the whole, the religious division of
Protestant and Romanist defined the boundary between anti-repealers and
repealers.

The following is copied from _Saunders' News Letter_ of the 12th of
June:--

_Address of the Loyal National Repeal Association to the Electors of
Ireland._

"'God prosper the cause!--oh! it cannot but thrive, While the pulse of
one patriot heart is alive. How sainted by sorrow its martyrs have died!
Far, far, from the footprint of coward or slave, The young spirit of
freedom shall shelter their grave!"

"On you--fellow-countrymen--electors--at this moment devolves the good
and holy task of protecting the graves of the sorrow-sainted martyrs of
Ireland from the polluting tread of coward or of slave. None such will
be found amongst you--none such will dare to show themselves if you be
true.

"In this year of death, our country still survives! Weeping, fainting,
bleeding, yet she lives; and lives to claim, aye, and to have--the
services of her true children.

"Yes! although from him whose life's devotion to Ireland was repaid by
her confidence and her love, and from those without whose potent aid his
labours had been vain--the beloved clergy of the people--down throughout
all ranks and orders of the national organisation, Death has been busy,
still enough remain of devoted, determined, patriot hearts, to carry out
the good work he began, and to make it, with the blessing of a merciful
God, speedily triumphant!

"Rally, then--rally, electors of Ireland--your country calls! Your dead
brethren, even from their graves, invoke you. Drive from your hustings
the men who shall have dared to think you cowards--who shall dare to ask
you to continue slaves! And there are those who will so dare;--mark
you not the exulting tone of Whig and Tory, and every other class of
panderers to English passions and prejudices:--'Repeal,' they say, 'is
gone!' 'Ireland is at last subdued--she begs for bread, and is fearful
to demand her rights lest we withhold our alms!' It is false; how foully
false you know, and at the elections you will prove. Deep as is the
baseness of those who build their party hopes upon a nation's
misery, deeper still would be our baseness if ever, even amid all the
heart-crushing calamities of the time, we shrunk in aught from our high
purposes, and from our vows for Ireland's regeneration.

"Nay, if but the hope of relief from our present distress were to
animate us, even so should we cry out for that home parliament which
alone can bring back wealth and abundance to the land--alone can guard
her from recurring season after season of want, of pestilence, of death!

"Be ready then in time, fellow-countrymen, the elections are at hand;
give us repealers--true and trusty repealers--men pledged to the safe,
peaceful, constitutional principles you have been taught by him whom
you followed so devotedly, and whom you mourn so affectionately and
sincerely!

"On you--on each one and all of you together, and on none but you, the
task now lies of helping Ireland at this fearful crisis of her fortunes.
Yours, and yours alone, will be the glories of success, or the shame
of not having sought it. Your distress has left the Repeal Association
without funds to aid your contest, and we can do no more than to exhort
and to advise. Let not the wily enemies of your freedom delude you. The
duty is upon you; the means are in your hands, not in ours; if the
duty be not done, poor Ireland will suffer the disastrous and ruinous
consequences; but the blame of them, and the shame, will be upon you.
Fellow-countrymen, this must not be--nay, this will not be. We answer
for you. Unaided, undirected, as you are, you will bestir yourselves--on
yourselves will depend, and you will achieve the victory. Meet in your
committees; encourage the timid, cheer up the desponding; turn away
with contempt from the whig or tory dependent, who would counsel you to
dishonour, and vote for none but a staunch repealer--for one who will
maintain the peace principles of the association, and aid it to work out
and re-establish the inalienable and imperishable right of Ireland to
legislate for herself.

"Had our own parliament ruled us, the landlords would not have had their
tyrannies sanctioned and increased in license till the suffering people
were reduced down to the lumper potato for a wretched, and, alas! a
fatally precarious subsistence. Our manufactures would yet exist, giving
comfort to our skilful artizans, and offering refuge to the peasant,
unable to obtain a maintenance upon the land. In every village
neighbourhood, the money raised by the hard toil of the labourer would
be finding its way back, and briskly circulating there, by reason of
the thousand sources of employment that would arise around the restored
residence of the large proprietor. Irish money would thus stay at home
to create and increase Irish wealth, and to support Irish poverty; and
the grudging doles of an alien parliament would never more be needed in
the land.

"Fellow-countrymen, for such results the association has been
struggling--for such objects you are now called upon to work. By all
that this wretched land has yet endured from English misrule,--by the
accumulated and aggravated suffering of the last disastrous forty-seven
years, with their fell climax in this year of death,--by the myriads
of fresh graves, the fearful husbandry of death, that are ridging your
fields and even your humble homesteads,--by the holy and most adorable
name of the Deity, who chasteneth whom He loveth,--we entreat, we
implore, we exhort, we adjure you to stand true to Ireland at these
elections; to spurn Whig and Tory, and to prove yourselves worthy of
your rights by returning none but those who will unflinchingly assert
them;--and foremost amongst those rights, before all and above all, the
right to make your own laws in your own parliament at home."

The elections issued in a triumph for which the Repeal Committee itself
was hardly prepared. There was a great increase in "repeal members."
This arose from a variety of causes. The Conservatives had lost heart
in connection with the expenses which the famine had imposed upon
their estates. The people universally attributed their distress to the
government, and to their connection with heretic England. The priests
made great exertions throughout the country. Fearful scenes of violence
took place, "the moral-force repealers," lay and clerical, inciting
the people to these outrages by the most inflammatory appeals to their
fanaticism, and by examples which were calculated to encourage them.
The most awful denunciations were heaped upon the heads of "all bad
Catholics who should vote against their religion and country." These
denunciations came from sacerdotal lips, and from the altar as well as
the pulpit. The popular press rivalled the priests in anathemas against
all who were not willing "to vote for Ireland against the Saxon." Public
placards might be seen in town and country, headed, like the address
of the Repeal Committee to the electors, with inflammatory poetry: a
favourite couplet on these occasions was--

     "On our side is virtue and Erin,
     On theirs is the Saxon and guilt."

The context of these lines was judiciously omitted from the placards,
but not from the speeches of the electioneering agents and orators--

     "Then onward--our green banner rearing--
     Go, flesh every sword to the hilt."

If this injunction was not obeyed to the letter, it was nearly so, and
at all events it was carried out in spirit.

Of green banners there was abundance, and if the sword gave place to
the brickbat and the bludgeon, the consequences were pretty much the
same--"Green Erin" gained a great victory over Erin of the Orange
preferences, and over the Saxon in general. The spirit in which this
result was received at Conciliation Hall, and its effect upon the hopes
and aspirations of the people, may be gathered most readily from the
address of the General Election Committee of the Repealers to the people
of Ireland, when the elections had closed.

"_Fellow-countrymen_,--Even in this hour of triumph--even now, when
you have so nobly vindicated at the elections the glorious cause of
repeal--our congratulations must, in sad accordance with the unvarying
fate of Ireland ever since Englishmen have controlled her fortunes,
be mingled with considerations of mournfulness and peril! It is not
merely--and, alas! that such a calamity should have to be treated as of
secondary magnitude--it is not merely that the niggard state charity of
England is now at once to cease and be entirely withdrawn, but we have
to contemplate a still more fearful and far wider-spreading misery at
the end of autumn and in the early winter.

"All-bounteous Heaven has blessed our fields with abundance; but
Ireland's poverty--the unholy doing of man--must cause the produce of
her harvest to be exported away from her starving people, and sold
at the rich markets of England, to meet the enormous rents of cruel
absentees. Five millions of your money go annually to those absentees;
and so many have lately fled from the sight of the calamities their
carelessness for their country had allowed England to inflict, that more
than an additional million must be drained away this year!

"What is there to save our people? The potato has not been sown in
one-third of the extent of former years. The substitute crops, though
promising, will be fearfully short of the deficiency caused by the loss
of the potato; and those crops would be taken from us by the high prices
in England, even if we had not to send them there to get money for
the absentees. Food gone, and money gone, what is to become of us?
The stinted relief that England gave us is out. The means voted with
grudging and insult are expended and gone. Her representatives are
pledged to give us no more, and not only to refuse if the government
should propose a further advance, but to call upon the minister to
insist strictly and speedily on repayment of that which has been given.
We therefore have no hope of money from England! Have we then any money
at home? Alas! it is but as the dribblings of the mountain stream when
the winter floods have passed, and the summer heats are exhausting and
absorbing its waters; and had we tenfold what little remains, how are
the rates to be paid, when, according to even the starvation scale of
the government soup-kitchens, the cost of maintaining our poor will
exceed by nearly double the whole rated value of the property in
Ireland! No Whig nor Tory can tell us of the means of meeting the coming
disaster. The members of the ministry have not touched upon it at any
of their elections. The press of England is mute, save when it gives
utterance to calumnies and insults. Ireland is not in the thoughts
of any of our English fellow-subjects. Their own interests, their own
monetary perils, their own necessities, absorb their whole attention.

"Should we not then take counsel from ourselves? Should not our
newly-elected members agree to come together here in Dublin, and consult
for the safety of the country, and decide upon the matters they will
urge upon the reluctant ear of the English parliament? Should they
not meet, if only to concert how best to recall the absentees to their
long-neglected duties at home; how best to compel all the monies of the
country to be spent at home; and thus to give a chance of saving
our unhappy people from being swept off the face of the earth by
widely-desolating famine, or the yet more desolating and dreadful agency
of a bloody, a bootless, a criminal, and all-destroying civil war?

"Again we shall address you, when the time is near that parliament is
to assemble, and ask of you to announce to your representatives your
opinions. We shall carefully make use of the intervening time to collect
and concentrate the expression of your sentiments respecting each
particular point of policy that should be pressed upon your members'
attention, as well as respecting the great leading principles of the
national movement. Thus shall the 'Council of National Distress and
National Safety' come to its labours with materials prepared and
suitably digested, and thus be enabled all the readier and speedier to
take, boldly and explicitly, its decisions and resolves, and maintain
them firmly, undauntedly, and perseveringly in the British House of
Commons. Thus shall the Irish members best show themselves to be worthy
of the high trust with which they have been honoured, and of the far
higher and prouder distinction of being again, and at no distant time,
deputed to represent their beloved country in her restored native
parliament."

The representation that the relief England had given to the people was
stinted, was a vile calumny, showing the utter want of principle of
the party from which it emanated. The intimation that it was not the
intention of government to do more; that the "stinted relief" which
England gave was "out;" and that nothing but ruin remained, although
rich England was at hand to save, if she were only charitable and
just,--was well calculated to keep up disaffection in the public mind.

The success of the repealers at the elections might be supposed as
tending to quiet the country, as it afforded a constitutional medium
of expressing their views. But it had not that effect: the desire to
procure arms which showed itself in 1846 continued through 1847, and
notwithstanding the great distress so generally felt, the expenditure
of money upon aggressive weapons was in some parts of the country larger
than in the previous year.


BITTER DISPUTES BETWEEN "OLD IRELAND" AND "YOUNG IRELAND."

The Young Irelanders were encouraged by the death of O'Connell to
believe that they could take the lead in public affairs among the Roman
Catholics, and they supposed that the Protestant population were more
likely to listen to arguments in favour of an effort to achieve national
independence, coming from them, than they were to hearken to the
old repeal arguments from the Old Irelanders. In this they were
disappointed; notwithstanding that several of the leaders were
Protestants, no considerable number of that persuasion followed the
new faction. The true tendency of that agitation was seen by the
Protestants, who rather prepared to resist both the Old Ireland and
Young Ireland parties, in the struggle which might be brought about by a
coalition of these parties. Such a coalition was the policy of the Young
Ireland party; but they made the doctrine of physical force a _sine
qua non_ in the creed of the coalesced parties; and the Old Irelanders,
still clinging to the policy of their deceased chief, refused the terms.
John O'Connell and his adherents were then made the objects of unsparing
ridicule by the _literati_ of the new party, and the lampoons and
caricatures of which the chairman and committee of Conciliation Hall
were the victims, told upon the people, and gradually insinuated a
contempt for the weak and vacillating policy, as it was described, by
which they were guided. The party of John O'Connell, as when under the
guidance of his father, was not slow to resort to physical violence,
whenever there was a chance of doing so with impunity, while they
continued to proclaim the sanctity and permanent obligation of the
O'Connell doctrine of moral force. The Young Irelanders endeavoured to
reunite Irishmen to lift the arm of a manly and brave revolt against
English connection. The Old Irelanders had no objection to kill
scripture-readers, break church windows, waylay Protestants, and
maltreat them at market or fair, and riotously disperse the assemblages
of Young Irelanders, while they preached passive resistance as alone
justifiable to the government. Of course the leaders of Old Ireland
denounced all breakers of the laws; but when outrages were committed,
especially on Young Irelanders or Protestants, they palliated them, or
denied them in the face of evidence which was conclusive. John O'Connell
found himself in a hurricane of political passion, which he could not
quell, and through which he had neither power nor skill to direct his
course. By the end of the year he found the reins of authority slipping
through his hands; Smith O'Brien and his compeers were rampant; and
Ireland, stained with blood, blackened with pestilence, exhausted by
famine, raged with impotent fury against the imperial government and
Great Britain: in all the folly of domestic faction, she was pitied and
scorned by Great Britain when she supposed herself feared. There were
no men amongst the leaders of the disaffected in Ireland to command the
respect of England, in that sense which a dominant nation respects the
power of a rival, or of an insurgent province. The wish became
very extensive in Great Britain that all Irish grievances should be
redressed, and that in every respect Ireland should be placed on a
footing with the other portions of the United Kingdom, if in any a sense
of injustice were experienced; but to the honest menaces of the Young
Irelanders, and the hypocritical reliance on moral persuasion of
Conciliation Hall, the people of Great Britain only gave their ear from
curiosity, perfectly regardless of any power which any faction or union
of factions might put forth. Great Britain awaited the outburst of
passion which was in Ireland so rapidly coming to a crisis,' as unmoved
as the crag abides the eddies of the current which bubble and burst
against it.


GENERAL STATE OF AFFAIRS IN GREAT BRITAIN.

This year was one which, in many respects, tested the power and
resources of Great Britain. In her colonies she had conflicts to wage
of great magnitude. Ireland was smitten with famine and disease, and
turbulent. In the Highlands of Scotland the hardy peasantry suffered
from the scarcity of provisions caused by the failure of the potato and
other crops during 1846.

The commercial embarrassments of the year were felt from the beginning,
and continued, with more or less pressure, to the close. From the
operations of various causes, money was dear both on the European and
American continents. Early in January, so severely was this circumstance
felt in Paris, that the Bank of France applied to that of England for
aid, which was granted; but the consequence, of course, was a rapid rise
in the rate of interest in Great Britain and Ireland. This continued
until all speculative transactions were paralysed. The timely increase
in the price of accommodation by the Bank of England did much to
mitigate the evils of the crisis. These were produced by recent bad
harvests, and the failure of the potato crop. The great extent to which
railway transactions had been carried, and the consequent drainage of
capital; the wild speculations which began to prevail in France, and
were so marvellously developed in England, also conduced to the monetary
disturbance. Besides the operation of all these causes, there was an
uneasy feeling on the continent connected with political affairs, which
communicated itself to England, and made capitalists timid.

During the month of September panic pervaded the monetary and commercial
world. Failures in every branch of business in London and in the
provinces were numerous and disastrous. The following were among the
most extensive in London:--

                                              Liabilities.

     Sanderson and Co......................    £1,725,900

     J. and S. Woolley  .....................     90,500

     Reid, Irving, and Co...................    1,500,000

     Gower, Nephews........................       450,000

     Cockerell and Co......................       600,000

     Bensusan and Co......................         60,000

     Perkins, Schlusser, and Mullens......        150,000

     Luall, Brothers, and Co................      400,000

     Philips and Co.........................      150,000

     Prime, Ward, and Co...................       100,000

     Robinson and Co.........................      96,000

     Castellain.................................  100,000

     Giles and Co............................     160,000

Some of these persons, and many others who incurred like misfortune, had
been regarded as opulent merchants or bankers, and were men of position
and influence. Mr. Robinson was, at the time of his failure, a governor
of the Bank of England; Sir John Rae Reid had lately filled that
office. Mr. Gomer and Mr. Settle were bank directors at the time of
their stoppage.

The Bank of England not only raised its rate of interest to eight per
cent., but contracted the time of accommodation to thirty days. The
funds, always susceptible of the influence of an uneasy state of public
affairs, and of violent changes in the money market, were at this
juncture peculiarly so, falling as much as two per cent, in a single
day. Consols were as low as eighty-four. Railway shares suffered more
than any other kind of stock or scrip, becoming so depreciated in
the market as to be unsaleable. A great outcry was raised against the
monetary policy which had been initiated by Sir Robert Peel. "Peel's
bill" was the subject of unmeasured denunciation by all who were
accustomed to obtain bank accommodation, but to whom that advantage
was no longer open. Early in October a deputation from the city bankers
waited upon the government for the purpose of inducing some relaxation
upon the stringency of Sir Robert Peel's bill. The deputation consisted
of most influential men--such as Mr. Masterman, Mr. Abel Smith, Mr.
Glynn, Mr. Bevan, Mr. Barnett. The chancellor of the exchequer addressed
the deputation in terms which led them to expect that the object for
which they were deputed would be accomplished. Their expectations
were not disappointed, for the following letter was addressed to the
governors of the Bank:--

"Her majesty's government have seen with the deepest regret the pressure
which has existed for some weeks upon the commercial interests of the
country, and that this pressure has been aggravated by a want of that
confidence which is necessary for carrying on the ordinary dealings of
trade. They have been in hopes that the check given to transactions of a
speculative character, the transfer of capital from other countries,
the influx of bullion, and the feeling which a knowledge of these
circumstances might have been expected to produce, would have removed
the prevailing distrust. They were encouraged in this expectation by
the speedy cessation of a similar state of feeling in the month of April
last. These hopes, however, have been disappointed, and her majesty's
government have come to the conclusion that the time has arrived when
they ought to attempt, by some extraordinary and temporary measure, to
restore confidence to the mercantile and manufacturing community. For
this purpose, they recommend to the directors of the Bank of England,
in the present emergency, to enlarge the amount of their discounts
and advances upon approved security; but that, in order to retain this
operation within reasonable limits, a high rate of interest should be
charged. In present circumstances they would suggest that the rate of
interest should not be less than eight per cent. If this course should
lead to any infringement of the existing law, her majesty's government
will be prepared to propose to parliament, on its meeting, a bill of
indemnity. They will rely upon the discretion of the directors to reduce
as soon as possible the amount of their notes, if any extraordinary
issues should take place within the limits pi escribed by law. Her
majesty's government are of opinion that any extra profit derived from
this measure should be carried to the account of the public, but
the precise mode of doing so must be left to future arrangement. Her
majesty's government are not insensible to the evil of any departure
from the law which has placed the currency of this country upon a sound
basis; but they feel confident that, in the present circumstances, the
measure which they have proposed may be safely adopted; and that, at
the same time, the main provision of that law and the vital principle
of preserving the convertibility of the bank-note may be firmly
maintained."

The Bank directors passed resolutions consequent upon this letter, which
were of great importance to the trading community. These resolutions
were conveyed to the government by a letter from the governor and
deputy governor of the Bank:--

_Bank Resolutions_.

"Resolved,--That this Court do accede to the recommendation contained in
the letter from the First Lord of the Treasury and the Chancellor of
the Exchequer, dated this day, and addressed to the Governor and
Deputy Governor of the Bank of England, which has been read;

"That the minimum rate of discount on bills not having more than 95 days
to run be 8 per cent;

"That advances be made on Bills of Exchange, Stock, Exchequer Bills,
and other approved securities, in sums of not less than £2000, and for
periods to be fixed by the Governors, at the rate of 8 per cent, per
annum."

The immediate effects of this measure can be most briefly shown by the
following reference made a few days afterwards by an authority in such
matters:--"As soon as the correspondence between the Bank of England
and the Government was made public, a rise of nearly two and a half per
cent, immediately ensued. Consols on Saturday left off at 80 3/4 to 7/8,
and on Monday 83 1/2 5/8. Several fluctuations, however, occurred in the
course of the day; and a fall of one per cent, on the announcement by
the Bank broker of the truth of the correspondence alluded to above,
excited much surprise. On Tuesday, the market was very unsettled,
operations being nearly confined to Consols. The opening quotation was
83 5/8, and the highest quotation 84 3/8, with numerous fluctuations.
A tendency to reaction was visible on Wednesday; the first price was 83
1/4 for money, which declined to 82 3/8, but afterwards rallied to 82
1/2-3/4, at which price they closed. On Thursday, there was scarcely any
fluctuation until towards the close of business. The news of a banking
failure in the West of England caused a fall of nearly 1/2 per cent.;
and, at closing, 82 1/4 for Money, to 82 3/8 to 1/2 for Time, were the
current quotations. Exchequer Bills have considerably fluctuated during
the week; about 20s. dis. for large bills is the closing quotation. Bank
Stock has rather improved, but India Bonds continue very much depressed,
quoting about 30s. dis."

The prevailing feeling among political economists was unfavourable
to the measure; and there were many effects attending upon it which
vindicated their judgment. In the provinces banks gave way, and
mercantile houses of eminence were closed; a general apprehension among
the more skilful financiers was entertained that no _ultimate_ benefit,
but considerable ultimate injury, would ensue. The judgment of this
class of persons may be best combed in the following review of the
event:--"On this resolve being generally circulated, nothing could
exceed the agitation that prevailed. Everywhere it became the engrossing
subject of conversation; and, while many who were favourable to
the 'expansion' objected to the high rate of interest, others, more
experienced, remembering 1825 and 1836, with all the train of evils that
resulted upon the withdrawal of the notes then issued, loudly expressed
their disapprobation of this invasion of the most valuable clause in
the Bank charter bill. Its mere relaxation, it was observed, robs the
measure, at once and for ever, of the powerful check to over-trading
that a knowledge that, under no circumstances whatever, a relaxation
would be resorted to, was calculated to produce. The immediate effect in
Liverpool has been to raise the value of cotton one per cent. This is
a direct hindrance to manufacturing, and Manchester, Leeds, &c,
consequently suffer. It is remarked at Liverpool that eight per cent.,
although high, is nothing in comparison with being obliged to sell.
It follows, therefore, that, when sold, all the charges incident
to withholding must be paid by the purchaser, and ultimately by the
consumer. From Manchester, advices have been received of the failure
of Messrs. Fairbridge and Mr. Robert Gardner (the latter is greatly
regretted); from Leeds, of a firm it would be premature to mention. In
the meantime, money in London is rather dearer than cheaper. Discount
houses, and the joint-stock banks, are taking money repayable at short
dates at six percent., five having hitherto been the current rate.
Good bills will not be done under eight per cent., and second-rate at
scarcely any price. The Directors of the Bank of England at present have
not been subject to any great demands since Monday; the difficulty of
offering good security being at once an obstacle to firms partially
insolvent. At present, it is almost premature to judge, but doubts are
entertained whether the benefits resulting, even for the present, from
the 'relaxation,' will at all balance the baleful effects anticipated."

The government did not expect that such opinions would be entertained by
so large and influential a portion of the public, and were desirous to
retrace their steps as soon as they could do so with a good grace,
for before a month had passed measures were taken to that effect. The
following letter was addressed by the cabinet to the governors of the
Bank:--

"Her majesty's government have watched with the deepest interest the
gradual revival of confidence in the commercial classes of the country.
They have the satisfaction of believing that the course adopted by the
Bank of England on their recommendation, has contributed to produce this
result, whilst it has led to no infringement of the law. It appears,
from the accounts which you have transmitted to us, that the reserve of
the Bank of England has been for some time steadily increasing, and now
amounts to £5,000,000. This increase has in great measure arisen from
the return of notes and coin from the country. The bullion exceeds
£10,000,000, and the state of the exchange promises a further influx
of the precious metals. The knowledge of these facts by the public is
calculated to inspire still further confidence. In these circumstances
it appears to her majesty's government that the purpose which they had
in view in the letter which we addressed to you on the 25th October has
been fully answered, and that it is unnecessary to continue that letter
any longer in force."

The harvest of 1847 was such as to restore confidence in some degree,
and from that and other causes, especially the cessation of all
speculative undertakings, money became easier. The government, however,
claimed credit for their plan, which, in the opinion of so many
qualified to judge, did more harm in some directions than it did good in
others. If the number and magnitude of the different commercial failures
were to be taken into account, there appeared as much necessity for the
government measure when it was withdrawn, as when, twenty-eight days
before, it was introduced. The following were announced to the end of
November:--


     IN  GLASGOW.                                Liabilities.

     Campbell of May.........................     £600,000

     A. and J. Bournie......................      200,000


     IN  LIVERPOOL.

     Ashburner  ............................      30,000

     Napier of Camlachie.....................      40,000


     IN  NEWCASTLE.

     Carrand Co..............................      70,000


     IN  MANCHESTER.

     David Ainsworth   .....................      30,000


     IN  BLACKBURN.

     Roget and Co.............................     76,000


     IN  LONDON.

     Freemanand Cook..........................    350,000

     Sargeant, Garden, and Co.................    150,000

     Thurbonand Co............................    120,000

     Coates and Co............................    100,000

     Leaf, Barnet, and Co.....................    100,000

     Farmer and Ward.........................      55,000

     Ryder, Wimbolt, and Co..................      50,000

     Pemberton and Co........................      30,000

     Abbot and Co............................      30,000


Besides the great number of mercantile firms which failed, several banks
were reduced to the same necessity: the West India, the Shrewsbury,
Market Drayton, and the Honiton, were among the principal. Many foreign
mercantile establishments which had connections with British houses also
stopped payment, adding to the distress and alarm.

During the ensuing month large imports of bullion arrived from the
continent and America, and the aspect of affairs became more hopeful.

Throughout the year the English populace experienced much distress, and
bore it with patience; still there were food riots and disturbances of
various sorts, which had to be put down by the strong arm of the law.

Notwithstanding the gloomy condition of all monetary and mercantile
transactions, there were men of enterprise, who contemplated future
undertakings of great magnitude. Among these projects was one proposing
the formation of a ship canal across the Isthmus of Suez, which,
however, was not carried into effect. The French government and people
were very desirous to have such a work accomplished; but English
politicians regarded it with jealousy, especially Lord Palmerston, then
the highest authority in England on foreign affairs. By him the
measure was regarded as impracticable, at all events, as a pecuniary
speculation; and in its political tendency, likely to separate Egypt
from Turkey, and to give France, as a great Mediterranean power,
an undue preponderance. He also regarded it as endangering, and not
remotely, English empire in India. At all events, Mr. Stephenson, the
great English engineer, investigated the subject, and surveyed the line
through which certain French speculators proposed that the canal should
be cut. As the subject is technical, Mr. Stephenson's views are given in
his own words, used ten years afterwards:--

"In 1847, in conjunction with a French and Austrian engineer,
he investigated the matter, feeling how important would be the
establishment, if possible, of a communication between the Red Sea and
Mediterranean. The levels given by a French engineer, who visited Egypt
in 1801, during the French invasion, indicated a difference between the
Red Sea and the Mediterranean of something like thirty-two feet. It was
suggested that if the old canal of Ptolemy were opened again, a current
might be established between the Red Sea and the Mediterranean, which
would not impede steam navigation, and would at the same time scour
the canal and enable a perfect channel to be maintained. However, after
investigation, he and the other engineers found that, instead of there
being thirty-two feet difference of level between the Red Sea and the
Mediterranean, there was no difference at all, though the notion of that
difference of level had been entertained for upwards of fifty years.
While that notion existed it was believed by professional men that a
canal, or a new Bosphorus, as it was called, might be maintained between
the Red Sea and the Mediterranean; but the difference of level being
found to be _nil_, the engineers with whom he was associated abandoned
the project altogether, and he believed justly. Since that time he
had walked over the district, at some considerable inconvenience, and
investigated the feasibility of opening a canal between the two seas,
assuming them to be on a level, and supposing the canal to be supplied
with water from the higher level of the Nile, but he had come to the
conclusion that the thing was, he would say, absurd, were it not that
other engineers, whose opinion he respected, had been to the spot since
and declared it to be practicable. He coincided in opinion with the
first lord of the Treasury. Money, it was true, would overcome any
difficulty, but, commercially speaking, he must frankly declare that
he believed this scheme to be unfeasible. Whatever its political import
might be, he believed it to be an undesirable scheme, speaking as an
engineer. In his opinion, the railway now nearly completed would be more
effective, as far as India and postal arrangements were concerned, than
this new Bosphorus between the Red Sea and the Mediterranean."


POLITICAL AGITATION IN ENGLAND.

The commercial distress gave an opportunity for certain political
charlatans to stir up the minds of the people. The Chartists, headed
by Fergus O'Connor, took advantage of the privations of the populace by
appealing to their passions and their sufferings, representing them as
the dupes of the upper and middle classes, especially the latter, who
were described as enriching themselves at the expense of the poor. The
"people's charter" was declared to be the panacea; all social evils were
to vanish before the application of that political remedy. Some of the
political demands of the chartists were just; all classes of liberal
politicals felt that the people were entitled to a wider distribution of
the franchise, but many who thus felt were deterred from the concession
by the intemperate language and impracticable schemes of Fergus O'Connor
and the lesser leaders of the confederacy. Whatever might be supposed
imprudent as a measure of political agitation in a rich country,
and where the vast mass of the people had a strong aversion to all
constitutional, or as it was the fashion to name them, "organic
changes," by sanguinary or violent means, was resorted to by Mr.
O'Connor and his coadjutors. He propounded principles of political
economy so absurd, that it was difficult to suppose he could have any
faith in his own theories,--holding out the hope of an ultimate division
of the land among the people: others propounded the doctrine of a law by
which every man should be provided with "a fair day's wages for a fair
day's work," and the duty of supplying that "fair day's work" for him
rested, it was alleged, with the government. These men, in fact, did
their utmost to bring about a social war, and the doctrines of communism
were actively propagated and eagerly received among large numbers of
the operatives in the metropolis and the north of England, and among the
labourers elsewhere. There was, probably, no important town in England
that had not its chartist association, which looked forward to a violent
political revolution by which high wages could be procured by little
labour. The Chartists, like the Irish repealers, were divided into
sections, characterised respectively by their profession of physical
force or moral force. The moral force Chartists were like the Old
Irelanders, not generally very sincere in their belief of its efficacy.
They professed it merely as a cover to conceal what they meditated; they
were as much physical-force men as those who were so designated, but
did not deem it politic to make the avowal.

After the dissolution of parliament (which will be recorded in its
details upon another page), Mr. O'Connor succeeded in gaining his
election. This circumstance filled his followers with revived hopes, and
the agitation became more enthusiastic and demonstrative. Large public
meetings were convened, which were conducted with order, and dispersed
peaceably, although the speeches on these occasions were very
inflammatory. The government regarded these "monster meetings" with
uneasiness, and they were closely watched. The loyalty of the middle and
of large sections of the poorer classes, however, gave the government
a sense of security, notwithstanding the menacing attitude of the
Chartists; and this loyal feeling was extended as the peaceably disposed
became alarmed by the seditious and unprincipled harangues which the
chartist orators addressed to such large assemblages. Many of the most
active Chartists were socialists, and used the confederacy as a means
of propagating their atrocious doctrines. As a specimen of the tone
and method which characterised the chartist gatherings where order was
maintained, the following account of one which took place after the
elections will suffice:--"A meeting of Chartists, to the number of
nearly ten thousand, took place at Newton Common, on Sunday. The
object was to address the operatives in the manufacturing districts of
Manchester, Oldham, Rochdale, Bolton, Buy, Preston, Liverpool, Wigan,
&c., on the land and labour questions. Shortly after one o'clock, Mr.
Fergus O'Connor, M.P., accompanied by Mr. W. H. Roberts, the miners'
attorney-general, appeared in the crowd, on their way to the platform.
Both these gentlemen were received amidst the loudest demonstrations of
applause. Mr. Roberts having been duly proposed and seconded, assumed
the office of chairman. He addressed the meeting at much length, on the
progress and prospects of Chartism, and encouraged the vast multitude
then before him to take courage from the past, and work with
determination and zeal for effecting the great cause of the people's
charter. A resolution, proposing that a committee, or a conference of
delegates, should go to London, to escort Mr. O'Connor into Parliament
on its opening, was agreed to. Mr. O'Connor then came forward and spoke
at great length. He reviewed the great progress of Chartism, abused
the Whigs, and browbeat the press. He next narrated the plans he had
adopted, and was adopting, for the benefit of all who became Chartists.
He anticipated great results from his scheme of labour palaces--denied
the propriety of being placed in the election returns as a feather in
the quill of Whiggery--was an earnest advocate for the amelioration of
Ireland, and still willing and determined to agitate for their cause.
He would go to parliament, and record his first motion for 'The people's
charter, and no surrender.' The meeting was conducted in a very orderly
manner."

As very considerable numbers of the working classes in Lancashire and
Yorkshire had been taught in Sunday-schools, and the Sabbath day was
much regarded in that part of the country, the collection of such a vast
concourse of persons from great distances, on a day so sacred, created
prejudices against the chartist confederacies even in their own
strongholds, which, irrespective of every other difficulty, ensured
their defeat. The agitation, however, did not come to a head during
the year of which we write, and it is unnecessary further to trace its
progress in this chapter.

This was not the only agitation which disturbed the equanimity of Great
Britain throughout the year. The Protectionists, led by Lord George
Bentinck, were active and acrimonious. Agricultural dinners and public
meetings gave opportunities for the most violent denunciations against
Sir Robert Peel, the government, and free trade. The manufacturers--the
creators of wealth, and who sustained so large a portion of the public
burdens--were represented as a selfish, callous set of men, eager only
to acquire riches, even at the expense of all other classes of the
community. They were described as disloyal and revolutionary, and bent
upon the destruction of throne and constitution. It would be difficult
to determine whether the orations at the protectionist groupings,
or those at the chartist gatherings were most characterised by class
invidiousness; nor could it be adjudged in which the less sound
views of political economy were enunciated. The eloquence greatly
preponderated on the side of the Chartists. Cotton was also quite as
patriotic as corn. The operatives declared that "the country" was ruined
by class legislation, and therefore desired that their own class should
thenceforward possess the legislative power. The landowners declared
that "the country" although not yet destroyed, was on the brink of
destruction, and must speedily perish amidst blood and bankruptcy,
unless the landed interest had again the power to make laws of which
the Reform Bill had deprived it, and unless agricultural produce was
"protected," by legislatively enhancing its price for the benefit of the
producers. "A fair day's wages for a fair day's work," and the state to
have the responsibility of securing it to the liking of those who
made the demand, was as much the principle of squires as of operative
cotton-spinners. Lord George Bentinck was a Fergus O'Connor for "the
country party," and Fergus was the Lord George Bentinck of the labouring
town populations.

The public demonstrations of both these parties were often very
unfortunate, in consequence of mismanagement by those to whom the
getting up of these affairs were committed. These occurrences tended to
lower both Chartists and Protectionists in public estimation, as various
witty publications lampooned the prominent actors, and exposed them to
overwhelming ridicule. The most signal opportunity afforded to the wits
in this way was by the Chartists. On the 25th of October they announced
a great public dinner to be given in London to eighteen members of
parliament, whom they alleged had been returned to the House of
Commons by their influence, and to represent their opinions. When the
dinner-party assembled, not one of the eighteen honourable gentlemen
appeared, nor did it transpire that even one had given any acceptance of
the invitation! Fergus O'Connor was an exception from the application
of these remarks. He was there as a matter of course, and elaborately
puffed his absurd land scheme, by which so many were afterwards ruined.

The anti-slavery party were in many respects active, notwithstanding the
home incidents which occupied the public mind. It was necessary to
watch the conduct of government in reference to the recent enactment
concerning the sugar duties, and also their general policy in regard to
the sugar question, and the West India interest. The conduct of the
West India party was suspicious, and required the vigilance of the
anti-slavery men; and the coalition between that party and Lord George
Ben thick added another motive still for watchfulness. Many of the
anti-slavery people turned their attention to India, and were supported
by gentlemen of influence, military and mercantile, in efforts to rouse
public interest in the resources of India, and the adaptation of
these resources to English requirements, rendering the importation of
commodities produced by slave labour unnecessary. George Thompson, Esq.,
who had been returned for the Tower Hamlets, one of the largest and
most influential constituencies in the kingdom, a man of surpassing
eloquence, took a very active part in this movement. A correct
insight as to its object and spirit may be imparted to the reader by
a resolution passed at a great meeting of the inhabitants of the Tower
Hamlets on the 26th of October:--"After an eloquent address, expository
of the subject, G.Thompson, Esq., M.P., moved a resolution to the
general effect that it had been demonstrated that India had the capacity
of producing every tropical raw commodity required by England for the
constant and profitable employment of her population. That England,
although mistress of India, was rendered year by year more dependent
upon the United States for her supply of raw cotton and tobacco; both
being the produce of slave labour. That, consequently, the prosperity
of this country, and the stability of a large portion of the public
revenue, were made dependent upon the vicissitudes of the seasons,
upon the maintenance of peace between England and America, and upon
the continuance of internal peace among the Slave States. That such
dependence, besides perpetuating slavery, was to a great extent, the
source of existing calamities, and pregnant with future evils to the
interests of England. That the free agricultural population of British
India would become the natural customers of this country in the
exact measure that they would if permitted to become the producers
of commodities for the wants of England, but that they were rendered
incapable of competing with the United States, by reason of the burdens
imposed upon their soil and industry. Therefore, resolved--That it is
the duty of the people of England, for the sake alike of England, of
India, and of the enslaved throughout the world, to require of the
legislature the immediate removal of all imposts which depress the
agricultural energies of the native population; and the institution of
a strict and impartial inquiry, in India, into the condition of the
natives, and into the conduct and the acts arising out of the peculiar
government ruling over them, which affect their wellbeing, and retard
their prosperity. Mr. W. Howitt seconded the resolutions, which were
carried unanimously, and the meeting separated."


THE COURT.

There were few incidents of interest connected with the court during
the year. In February Prince Albert was proposed to the University of
Cambridge as candidate for the chancellorship. He was opposed by Earl
Powis, and with such effect as to prove very mortifying to the court..
Prince Albert was elected by a majority of only one hundred and sixteen
votes, and it was obvious that but for the prodigious exertion of
government patronage, that result would not have been obtained. His
royal highness was installed publicly at Cambridge early in July. Her
majesty, having determined to accompany her husband on this occasion, a
vast concourse of persons repaired to Cambridge, and the government made
every effort to give _éclat_ to the event. The royal party travelled
by the Eastern Counties railway, and were received by the mayor and
corporation of Cambridge with much pomp. Repairing to the Hall of
Trinity, they were received by the dignitaries of the university.
There her majesty took her seat on a chair of state on a dais. The
new chancellor, accompanied by the Duke of Wellington (Chancellor
of Oxford), and other great personages, presented an address to her
majesty, congratulating her on her arrival. The prince, having read
the address, retired with the usual profound obeisances, which not only
amused the spectators, but afforded much diversion to her majesty, whose
mode of smiling indicated how much she enjoyed the burlesque of the
scene.

The following day, the Installation Ode was performed in the presence
of the new chancellor. Her majesty was present as a visitor. The ode was
composed by Wordsworth, the poet-laureate, and set to music by Professor
Walmisley. Flower-shows, public breakfasts, concerts, levees, grand
university dinners, entertained the numerous visitors of rank during the
stay of the royal party. Her majesty had seldom before been attended
by so august and splendid a retinue, consisting of Prince Waldemar of
Prussia, Prince Laurenstein, Prince Peter of Oldenburg, the Prince of
Saxe-Weimar, Lieutenant-General Sir Harry Smith (the hero of Aliwal),
the Bishop of Oxford, and nearly all the gentry of the eastern counties.
Cambridge had probably never witnessed such a festal occasion, and never
before did her majesty seem so much to enjoy herself. It was generally
observed that her fondness for the prince was carried to excess, and
that her enjoyment was mainly derived from the honour done to him. That
this amiable character, so much calculated to ensure her own domestic
happiness, and to set a good example to her people, belonged to her
majesty in a degree seldom evinced by royal personages, many proofs had
been given before, and many were given after, the visit to Cambridge.
A work entitled "The Journal of Thomas Baikes, Esq.," professed to
make many singular revelations to that effect. Mr. Baikes, the son of
a wealthy London merchant, had somehow an early introduction to _haut
ton_, and continued, in London and Paris, to live in the society of men
of rank and fashion, a species of Beau Brummel. The Duke of Wellington
gave to Mr. Baikes the following incident, which took place at the
marriage of the Princess Augusta: "When we proceeded to the signatures,
the King of Hanover was very anxious to sign before Prince Albert, and
when the queen approached the latter, he placed himself by her side,
watching the opportunity. She knew very well what he was about; and just
as the archbishop was giving her the pen, she suddenly dodged round the
table, placed herself next the prince, then quickly took the pen from
the archbishop, signed, and gave it to Prince Albert, who also signed
next, before it could be prevented. The queen was also very anxious to
give the precedence at court to King Leopold before the King of Hanover,
and she consulted me about it, and how it should be arranged. I told her
majesty that I supposed it should be settled as we did at the Congress
of Vienna. 'How was that,' said she, 'by first arrival?'--'No, ma'am,'
said I, 'alphabetically, and then, you know B comes before H.' This
pleased her very much, and it was done."

This was hardly fair to the Duke of Cumberland, and shows her majesty's
strong attachment to the Cobourgs; but his grace of Cumberland and
majesty of Hanover never acted as an uncle to the queen, and would have
gladly made the Orange party available to mount her throne. The Duke
of Wellington knew all this; and as he regarded it to be one of his
especial missions to watch over her majesty, he willingly lent himself
to those little artifices which tended to place the King of Hanover in
an inferior position relative to that of Prince Albert, or of the King
of the Belgians.

The only other event connected with the court, except such as will
appear in the history of parliamentary transactions, was the visit to
Scotland in August. This visit was paid in compliance with the wishes
of the prince, who had on a previous occasion greatly enjoyed the
opportunities of sporting which Scotland afforded. On the 11th of
August, the queen, the prince, the Prince of Wales, the Princess Royal,
and suite left Osborne House in the _Victoria and Albert_ yacht, with
the _Fairy_ as tender, and escorted by a fleet of war-steamers. Her
majesty stayed one night at the Scilly Islands, then passed through the
Menai Straits, and steered for the Isle of Man. The fleet sailed close
to the island, but her majesty did not land. On Monday, the 16th, the
fleet anchored in Loch Ryan: their entrance to the mouth of the Clyde
was very picturesque, and was observed by great numbers, in yachts and
steamers, who had made excursions for the purpose. On the following
day her majesty landed at Dumbarton, and inspected the old castle. The
squadron anchored for the night under the castle of Rothsay, from which
place the Prince of Wales derives his Scottish ducal title. On the
Wednesday they proceeded up Loch Fyne; at Tarbut her majesty gazed with
long and deep interest upon the glorious scenery. The royal party landed
at Inverary, where the Duke of Argyll and the Campbells paid feudal
homage, the clansmen assembling in their national costume.

From Inverary the court proceeded to Staffa, where they examined the
cave. The prince also landed at Iona, where so many ancient kings and
heroes of Scotland found sepulture. On Friday morning they arrived off
Fort William, where, on Saturday morning, her majesty and suite left
the squadron and proceeded by land to her Scottish autumn residence. The
accounts of this expedition published in the journals of the day greatly
interested the British public. A periodical not remarkable for its
loyalty thus referred to the voyage:--"Never, certainly, were the
habitual life and disposition of a sovereign exhibited to a nation
in more favourable guise than those of Queen Victoria during her sea
voyages. The history of the cruise to Scotland is like those which have
preceded it. It displays the chief traveller in the most engaging light.
We see her, the ruler of a maritime people, recurring for her holiday
pleasures to the enjoyment of the sea; riding the waves with a fearless
familiarity that yet has in it nothing unfeminine. The sovereign is
pleased to gratify her people by going among them and reciprocating
courtesies. Less reserved than some other predecessors, Queen Victoria,
surrounded by her family, still seems attended by a thoroughly English
spirit of domesticity; the manner in which the children accompany their
parents, share the walks of their father on shore, and enter into the
whole spirit of the voyage, is simply a model of the national manners
according to their best type. And while her husband and the children are
'stretching their legs' on shore, the accomplished lady is seen with her
pencil, exercising her talents by sketching the scenery around."

Her majesty's progress after the landing was such as to give her the
happiest assurances of the loyalty and love of the Scottish people.
The following description of the latter part of her journey is
picturesque:--"The road to Ardverikie passes round the north end of Loch
Laggan, crossing the Padtock Water by an ingenious boat bridge. At this
point Macpherson, of Cluny Macpherson, with about thirty of his tenantry
in the costume of his clan; Duncan Davidson, of Tulloch, and a few
of his followers; Sir John Mackenzie, of Selvin, and others, were
assembled, the Highlandmen armed with broadsword and target. About
eighty, thus armed, lined one side of the road, and the same number,
unarmed, lined the other; while about five hundred persons of both
sexes, in holiday costume, posted themselves on the face of the hill.
The Marquis of Abercorn, in full Highland costume, and wearing the order
of the garter, with the Duchess of Bedford, was also present. Shortly
after eleven o'clock a signal was made from Ben Nead that the royal
party were approaching, and' presently the royal carriages were seen
rounding a hill half a mile distant. Cluny then put himself at the head
of the Highlandmen, and behind him stood the standard-bearer, with the
venerable green silk flag of the Macphersons, which was 'out' in the
rebellions of 1715 and 1745. Cluny himself wore the shield which Prince
Charles Stewart carried at Culloden. The royal carriage drew up opposite
the bridge, the path to which, as well as the bridge, was carpeted.
Having greeted the marquis and Cluny, her majesty shook hands with the
Duchess of Bedford, and, with the prince, repeatedly acknowledged the
cheering of the people. Prince Leinengen was also in the royal carriage,
and shared the attentions of the people. Next to her majesty and her
royal consort, the Prince of Wales was the object of interest, as, led
by his royal father, and wrapped in a tartan cloak, he walked down to
the bridge. The royal party then entered a carriage in waiting on the
south shore, and drove slowly off to the lodge. The Duchess of Norfolk
and Lady Jocelyn followed; and in a third carriage came the Duke of
Norfolk, Earl Grey. General Wemyss, and Sir J. Clark, who were received
with demonstrations of respect. The last carriage having passed, an
anker of whiskey was brought forth, with cakes and cheese, to feast
both great and small. Cluny then proposed 'Health and happiness to her
majesty,' which was drank with nine cheers enthusiastically given; and
the crowd, after discussing some forty gallons of whiskey, dispersed.

"Her majesty was not accompanied by military, and in the evening all
the county police were dismissed, the force of seven London police being
considered more than sufficient for the protection of her majesty and
the royal party."

Ardverikie, where her majesty sojourned during her visit to the north,
was formerly a hunting park of Fergus, King of Scotland. In front is
Loch Laggan, which is very extensive, being about eight miles in length,
although not so picturesque as most of the Highland lochs.

On the 17th of September, her majesty left her Highland residence, and
sailed from Fort William to the Isle of Man, where the prince
landed. Thence the royal party steered to Fleetwood, in Morecomb Bay,
Lancashire, whence they proceeded by rail to London.

The conjugal and parental love shown by her majesty, and, indeed, her
affectionate interest in all her royal relatives, endeared her to her
people, the more so because it was the general impression that the house
of Brunswick was deficient in these virtues. In proof of that absence of
family kindness which has in most instances characterised her majesty's
royal predecessors, the following was extensively circulated in the
periodicals of the day, which, at the same time, held up the queen's
loving spirit to public admiration:--"Ever since the accession of the
house of Guelph royalty has freed itself from one of the most universal
and honourable, though somewhat expensive duties of kindred, and this,
too, without observation, much less censure. The poorest of mankind mark
the grave of parents, wife, and children by some humble memorial; the
richer place tablets or raise tombs to their relatives. So gratifying
to the heart is this duty, that rarely, if ever, is it omitted from any
other cause than poverty. A foreigner visits the royal depository in
St. George's Chapel, and asks where are the royal monuments? But no son,
daughter, brother, nephew, or niece of the present dynasty has erected a
funeral monument of any kind to the kindred dead. Even if affection did
not produce such a testimonial, it might have been expected from regard
to ancient custom, and from desire to conform to the habits of civilised
life. The only monuments to our kings and their descendants, with the
exception of the statue to George III. in Windsor Park, by George IV.,
and of the beautiful mausoleum which the King of Hanover is building
in memory of his consort, have been erected by the public; and in the
instance only of the Princess Charlotte's monument, which was raised
by subscription, has one been placed in church or chapel. There is
absolutely nothing--not even an engraved slab--to tell where the ashes
of George I., II., III., and IV., and William IV., or of any one of
all their numerous progeny, repose. No doubt the world knows; and the
omission is only remarkable or important from its being at variance with
the custom of the country, from the injury which it has caused to art,
and from the idea which it creates of heartlessness in the survivors;
not one of whom has expended a shilling on what would appear to be the
most natural of social duties."


HOME NAVAL AND MILITARY AFFAIRS.

The naval and military incidents of the year at home, which were of a
nature to record in history, were not numerous. The most important of
them was the organization of a coast defence, which was thus described
in a paper of the day, having a character for accurate naval and
military intelligence:--"The organization of the coast-guard for the
national defence, is the plan of the Earl of Auckland, first lord of the
Admiralty, under the approbation of the commissioners of customs. The
carrying out of the system is vested entirely in the hands of Captain
Houston Stewart, C.B., the controller-general of the coastguard, in
whose hands a sum of money has been placed for the purpose. It will be
recollected that this gallant officer commanded the _Benbow_, 72, at the
siege of Acre. Commander Jerningham is an additional commander appointed
to the _Excellent_ gunnery-ship, and has been selected for the purpose
of carrying into operation the plans and arrangements of Captain
Stewart, and to superintend the system of instruction of the men at
great gun exercise, which is precisely the same as that laid down in the
'Rules for exercise and service of great guns in her majesty's ships.'
Wherever guns have been placed for the instruction of the coast-guard,
warranted gunners from the _Excellent_ have been appointed to instruct
the men, under the superintendence of Commander Jerningham, who was
gunnery-lieutenant of the _Wellesley_, in China. They receive four
shillings a day, in addition to their present pay, and the men who are
brought to the guns for instruction receive one shilling a day for six
days, during which time they are excused from all other duty. It is
proposed to instruct the coast-guard by means of ship platform
batteries of one gun each, constructed exactly similar to the ports of
a man-of-war, placed in a position in each district convenient for
the drill of fifty men, and in a situation in which it may be rendered
available for defence, as well as affording a range to sea for
practice."

In after years this institution proved of great value. Lord Auckland's
administration of the Admiralty will, on this account, be memorable,
although certainly on no other.

The return of Sir Harry Smith from India was hailed by the public, who
sought every opportunity of demonstrating their respect for a hero who
had so nobly sustained the military reputation of England. Theregiment
of lancers, upon which so much depended in Sir Harry's separate command
connected with the events of Loodiana and Aliwal, had also returned
to England. The following exciting and singular scene occurred in the
autumn at Brighton. The address delivered by the general was remarkable
for the interesting incidents which it brought out, and its reference to
the opinion of the Duke of Wellington:--"On Friday afternoon, Sir Harry
Smith paid a visit of inspection to the 16th Lancers at Brighton. The
gallant general arrived by railway at two o'clock, and was met at the
terminus by Colonel M'Dowall who went out with the regiment in 1822 as a
lieutenant. He accompanied the general to the cavalry barracks,
situate a mile north-west of Brighton. Shortly after his arrival at the
barracks, Sir Harry and Colonel M'Dowall, went into the barrack yard,
where the regiment was drawn up for an undress parade. As soon as the
general made his appearance the band struck up, 'See, the
conquering hero comes.' The regiment was drawn up in squadrons by
Lieutenant-colonel Smithe, who so gallantly led it into the field at
Aliwal. Sir Harry inspected the troops, occasionally stooping as he
proceeded down the line, addressing some of the veterans, who bore upon
their breasts medals and stars, presented to them for their victories in
India. Sir Harry inspected them on foot; but afterwards mounted a
horse, and put the regiment through a variety of evolutions, which were
performed to his great satisfaction. This done, the regiment was drawn
up in close column. Sir Harry rode up to the front, and addressed the
troops as follows:--'Soldiers of the 16th Lancers, I hope you are now
as happy as you made your enemies unhappy. You served in India with the
highest honour. Whenever you were called on, you were ready to obey your
officers, either in the field or in quarters. If I have not this day
addressed each separate individual whom I know, it is not because I do
not feel towards you all as I know you all feel towards me, but because
I do not keep you and your officers on the ground. I have served many
years, and commanded many soldiers; but never did I know a regiment of
dragoons or of infantry superior, either in the field or in quarters,
to my gallant comrades of the 16th Lancers. I think I now see you on the
morning of Aliwal, marching in that order which would have done honour
to a barrack parade--your hearts in the right place, your hands on your
lances, and doing what I believe was never before done--charging twice
through a dense mass of infantry. On the following morning I saw half of
you, I believe, with your heads bound up, looking in the field of battle
for your dead and wounded comrades. I saw you also, when the enemy had
taken your baggage, with a cheerful heart and ready hand, willing to
redeem what was considered to be a reverse, when I asked you to do it,
and to make the enemy and the world know that you were equal to all
trials. The Duke of Wellington has often talked to me about this
regiment of dragoons, who have frequently distinguished themselves under
his command, and also of the memorable morning of Aliwal. Soldiers of
the 16th, I have on this occasion more particularly addressed you. I beg
to address Colonel M'Dowall and the officers of the 16th Lancers: That
you are gentlemen we all know, and none know it more than the privates
of the regiment, and that they have a commander and officers who will
ask nothing of them which they will not obey. I regard the 16th Lancers
as the nucleus of another corps, which in future times will achieve
another Aliwal. I tell you again, what I told you at Lahore, where
Runjeet Singh asked if you were all gentlemen, and if her majesty had
many such regiments of gentlemen; on that morning I told you I loved
you. I repeat it, and the love of a comrade is known to none but to
soldiers. My dear fellows, I rejoice to be amongst you again.' Sir Harry
then said (turning to Colonel M'Dowall)--' Pray do not let them be kept
any longer.' The troops then gave a loud huzza, and marched off the
ground with the band playing."

On the 1st of June a general order was issued from the Horse-guards, to
the following effect:--"Her majesty having been graciously pleased to
command that a medal should be struck to record the services of her
fleets and armies during the wars, commencing 1793, and ending in 1814,
and that one should be conferred on every officer, non-commissioned
officer, and soldier of the army who was present in any battle or siege,
to commemorate which medals had been struck by command of her majesty's
royal predecessors, and had been distributed to the general or
superior officers of the several armies and corps of troops engaged,
in conformity with the regulations of the service at that time in
force,--general and other officers, non-commissioned officers, and
soldiers, who consider that they have claims to receive this mark of
their sovereign's respect, are each to apply to the secretary of the
board of general officers, Whitehall, London, and to send in writing a
statement of their claim, for what action, at what period of time, and
the names of the persons, and the titles of the documents by which their
claim can be proved."

The occasions for which medals were granted, in pursuance of the general
order of which the above is an ex~ tract, were:--

     Maida, 4th July, 1806.

     Bolein, 17th August, 1808.

     Vimeira, 21st August, 1808.

     Sahagun Benevento, December and January, 1809.

     Corunna, 16th January, 1809.

     Martinique, February, 1809.

     Talaveia, 27th and 28th July, 1809.

     Guadaloupe, January and February, 1810.

     Busaco, 27th September, 1810.

     Barrosa, 5th March, 1811.

     Fuentes d'Onor, 5th May, 1811.

     Albuera, 10th May, 1811.

     Java, August and September, 1811.

     Ciuclad Rodrigo, January, 1812.

     Badajoz, 17th March and 10th April, 1812.

     Salamanca, 22nd July, 1812.

     Fort Detroit, America, August, 1812.

     Vittoria, 21st June, 1813.

     Chateauguay, America, 26th October, 1813.

     Nivelle, 10th November, 1813.

     Chrystler's Farm, America, 11th November, 1813.

     Nive, 9th to 13th December, 1813.

     Orthes, 27th February, 1814.

     Toulouse, 10th April, 1814.

The Admiralty issued an order similar to that of the Horse-guards. Gold
medals to flag officers and captains were issued by the Admiralty for
the actions undermentioned:--

Lord Howe's victory over the French fleet, 1st June, 1794.

Lord St. Vincent's victory over the Spanish fleet, 14th February, 1797.

Lord Duncan's victory over the Dutch fleet, 11th October, 1797.

Captain Sir Edward Hamilton. Surprise and recapture of the _Hermione_,
15th October, 1799.

Lord Nelson. Battle of Trafalgar, 21st October, 1805.

Sir R. Strachan. French squadron taken, 4th November, 1805.

Sir J. Duckworth. Action off St. Domingo, 6th February, 1806.

Captain Bresbane, of the _Arethusa_, and three other ships, take
Curaçoa.

Captain M. Seymour, of the _Thetis_, captured the _Amethyst_, 10th
November, 1808.

Captain Stewart, of the _Seahorse_, captured Turkish frigate, _Badere
Zaffer_, 6th July, 1809.

Captain Mounsey, of the _Bonne Citoyenne_, captured the _Furieuse_, 6th
July, 1809.

Captain C. Cole, of the _Caroline_, captured the _Banda Neira_, 9th
August, 1810.

Captain W. Hoste, with the _Antphion_ and three other ships, action off
Lissa, 13th March, 1811.

Captain Talbot, _Victorious_, captured Rivoli, 22nd February, 1812.

Captain Broke, of the _Shannon_, captured the _Chesapeake_, 1st June,
1813.

Captain E. Palmer, of the _Helvis_, captured _L'Etoile_, 27th March,
1814.

Captain E. Hope, of the _Endymion_, defeated the _President_, 25th
January, 1815.

The issue of these orders, and the grant of the medals, gave general
satisfaction; but severe animadversions were offered in the London
press against the want of public spirit, on the part of successive
governments, in allowing such actions so long to remain without the
honour thus tardily accorded. Many of the heroes who contributed to
this glorious list of victories by sea and land, had passed away, their
breasts unhonoured by the badge which they would have prized so much. It
was no new thing for England's braves to be neglected by their country,
or rather, by those to whom the government of the country was so often
unworthily committed.


GENERAL HOME INCIDENTS.

The year was remarkable for many railway accidents, resulting from the
carelessness and mismanagement of the various companies, exciting public
indignation, and causing uneasiness generally, in respect to personal
safety in railway travelling. In the first six months of the year,
according to parliamentary returns, one hundred persons were killed, and
an equal number more or less injured.

In September an interesting event occurred in connection with the memory
of the great national poet. In pursuance of the will of the deceased
owner, the house at Stratford-upon-Avon, popularly known as the
birthplace of Shakspere, was sold by public auction. When the writer of
these lines visited the place, the house had nothing very remarkable in
its appearance. It was old, of course, but did not look so venerable
as might be expected. It was situated in the High Street of the obscure
little town. It had been originally a mansion, but, at the date of its
sale, part had been removed and the rest was let in small tenements. It
was "knocked down," in auctioneers' phraseology, for the price of £3000,
the purchasers being a committee appointed by an association formed for
the purpose of obtaining possession of the building. The house was given
to the government in trust to be preserved as a public memorial of the
great man who first saw the light beneath its roof. This proceeding was
very creditable to the national feeling, for though no certain proof
exists that Shakspere was born there, still, as it was in possession of
his father before, at, and after the birth of the great dramatist, there
is probable ground for believing that it was his birthplace. It had been
purchased from the descendants of the original possessor for £250, by
the gentleman under whose will it was put up to auction.

During the autumn and winter, numerous disasters occurred at sea,
especially on the east coasts of England and Scotland. By these wrecks
many lives and much property were lost.

Few events in England excited such general interest among all classes as
the arrival of Jenny Lind, the celebrated vocalist and actress. She made
her first appearance at the Italian Opera House on the 4th of May, and
was received with an enthusiasm never before lavished on any performer:
during her stay in England this enthusiasm never abated.

Under the head of "General Home Incidents," seems hardly the most
suitable place to record the proceedings of the Hudson's Bay Arctic
Expedition. Yet, as it did not belong to the foreign or colonial affairs
of the country, and as the expedition had been determined upon and
ordered at home, this may be the most appropriate place in which to
introduce it. From the nature of the transactions, it is necessary to
give the relation in the words of the authorised report:--

"In July, 1846, the Company dispatched an expedition of thirteen
persons, under the command of Doctor John Rae, from Fort Churchill, in
Hudson's Bay, for the purpose of surveying the unexplored portion of the
Arctic coast, at the north-eastern point of the American continent. The
expedition, which has just returned, has traced the coast all along from
the Lord Mayor's Bay, of Sir John Ross, to within a few miles of the
Straits of the Fury and Hecla, proving thereby the correctness of Sir
John Ross's statement that Boothia Felix is a peninsula. From Doctor
Rae's Report to the Company the following interesting details are
gathered:--Having divided his men into watches, the doctor started
from Churchill on the 5th of July, 1846, and reached the most southerly
opening of Wager River on the 22nd, where they were detained all day by
immense quantities of heavy ice driving in with the flood and out again
with the ebb tide, which ran at the rate of seven or eight miles an
hour, forcing up the ice and grinding it against the rocks, causing
a noise resembling thunder. On the 24th the party succeeded in making
Repulse Bay, and cast anchor within eight miles of the head of the bay
under shelter of a small island. Here Doctor Rae found some Esquimaux
Indians, with whom he quickly established friendly relations, and from
a chart drawn by one of the party he inferred that the Arctic Sea (named
Akhoolee) to the west of Melville Peninsula was not more than forty
miles distant, in a N.N.W. direction, and that about thirty-five miles
of the distance was occupied by deep lakes; so that they would have only
five miles of land to drag their boat over--a mode of proceeding he had
decided upon even had the distance been much greater, in preference
to going round by the Fury and Hecla Strait. Here he established a
wintering party, and having unloaded the boats, and placed one of them,
with the greater part of her cargo, in security, the other was hauled
three miles up a rapid and narrow river which flowed from one of the
lakes they were to pass through. This work occupied them the whole of
the 26th, as the current was very strong, and the channel so full of
large boulder stones, that the men were frequently up to the waist
in ice-cold water whilst lifting or launching the boat over these
impediments. Their landing-place was found to be in latitude 66° 32' 1"
north. The rate of the chronometer had become so irregular that it could
not be depended upon for finding the longitude, and during the winter it
stopped altogether.

"Proceeding according to the course he had adopted, the party and their
adventurous leader on the 3rd of August, at 11 o'clock a.m., rounded
a high bluff cape, which they called after the lady of Sir John Henry
Pelly, Bart., Governor of the Hudson's Bay Company. It is situated in
latitude 67° 28' 00" north; longitude, by account, 87° 40' west.

"Having succeeded, after surmounting many difficulties, in reaching
Melville Peninsula, he was ultimately obliged to retreat from the
numerous obstacles that rendered his progress impossible; he therefore
paid a short visit to the wintering party at Repulse Bay, to ascertain
how they were getting on. Ultimately he found himself obliged to give up
all hope of prosecuting the survey on that occasion. His reasons we give
in his own words:--' My reasons for arriving at this conclusion I shall
here briefly mention, as such a step may seem somewhat premature. I saw,
from the state of the ice, and the prevalence of northerly winds, that
there was no likelihood of our completing the whole of the proposed
survey this season; and although part of the coast, either towards the
Strait of the Fury and Hecla or towards Dease and Simpson's furthest,
might be traced, yet to accomplish even this might detain us so long,
that there would be no time to make the necessary preparations for
wintering, and we should thus be under the necessity of returning to
Churchill without accomplishing the object of the expedition; or, if we
remained at Repulse Bay, run the risk of starving, for I could obtain
no promise of supplies from the natives, and all the provisions that
we carried with us amounted to not more than four months' expenditure,
which was all that our boats could carry. We should have thus to depend
almost altogether on our own exertions for the means of existence, both
in regard to food and fuel.'

"The party, therefore, commenced preparations for passing the winter,
and on the 2nd of September their house was furnished. Its internal
dimensions were 20 feet long by 14 feet broad; height in front, 7 1/2
feet, sloping to 5 1/2 at the back. The roof was formed of oil-cloths
and morse skin coverings, the masts and oars of our boats serving as
rafters. The door was made of parchment deer skins stretched over a
frame of wood. It was named Fort Hope, and was situated in latitude 66°
32' 16" north, longitude (by a number of sets of lunar distances) 86°
55' 51" west. The variation of the compass on the 30th August, 1846, was
62° 50' 30" west; dip of the needle, 88° 14'; and the mean time of 100
vertical vibrations in the line of declination 226.

"On the 5th of April in the present year, Doctor Rae commenced his
spring journeys in company with three men, the Esquimaux, Ibit-Chuck,
and Oulibuck's son, as interpreter; and, on the 15th, which was very
stormy, with a temperature of 20° below zero, they arrived at the steep
mud banks of a bay, called by their guide Ak-ku-li-guwiak. Its surface
was marked with a number of high rocky islands, towards the highest of
which (six or seven miles distant) they directed their course, and
were, before sunset, comfortably housed under a snow roof. Early in the
morning of the 17th, he set out in company with two of the men, for the
purpose of following the coast to some point surveyed by Sir John Ross,
as he felt confident that the veteran discoverer was correct in his
opinion as to Boothia Felix being part of the American continent. They
directed their course to the furthest visible land, which bore N.W.
(true). Cape Berens (the point alluded to) is equated in latitude 69° 4'
12" north, and longitude 90° 35' west. It is formed entirely of granite
partially covered with moss. Thirteen miles beyond this they arrived at
two narrow points in the small bay, between which they built their snow
hut.

"As they were now near the latitude and longitude of Lord Mayor's Bay of
Sir John Ross, he struck across land nearly in a north direction, and at
noon, when passing over a considerable lake, the latitude of 69° 26'
1" north was observed. Advancing three miles beyond this, he reached
another lake. A walk of twenty minutes brought him to an inlet not more
than a quarter of a mile wide. This he traced to the westward for three
miles, when his course was again obstructed by land. Ascending some high
rocks, from which a good view could be obtained, he thought he could
distinguish rough ice in the desired direction. With renewed hopes, he
set out at a rapid pace, plunging among deep snow, scrambling over rocks
and through rough ice, until he gained some rising ground close to the
beach. From the spot where he now stood, as far as the eye could see
to the north-west, lay a large extent of ice-covered sea, studded with
innumerable islands. Lord Mayor's Bay was before him, and the islands
were those named by Sir John Ross 'The Sons of the Clergy of the Church
of Scotland.'

"The isthmus which connects the land to the northward with Boothia Felix
is only one mile broad, and, judging by the number of stone marks set up
on it, it appeared to him to be a favourite resort of the natives. Its
latitude is 69° 31' north; longitude, by account, 91° 29' 30" west.

"After taking possession of his discoveries with the usual formalities,
the Doctor returned to his quarters on the island above-mentioned,
where, as they were all more or less affected with snow-blindness, and
the dogs were still weak, they remained on the island, which he found
to be situated in latitude 68° 53' 44" north; longitude, by account, 89°
56' 00" west. It is formed almost entirely of granite, and is upwards
of seven hundred and thirty feet above the level of the sea. From the
highest point of it, he obtained a fine view of the bay, and was thus
saved the trouble of tracing its shores. It extends sixteen or eighteen
miles to the southward, and contains a number of rocky islands, the
highest of them being that on which they encamped. The bay was named
Pelly Bay, after the governor of the company; and the group of islands,
Harrison Islands.

"The party, on their return, traced the shores of the tracts across
which they had made overland journeys when coming out. The country was
low, flat, and very regular in outline. They arrived at Repulse Bay on
the 5th of May, all safe and well, but as black as negroes, from the
combined effects of frost-bites and oil-smoke. The Doctor subsequently
traced the west shore of Melville Bay, and for that purpose started on
the evening of the 13th of May.

"The nature of the service, and the hardships to be endured on such
expeditions, may be understood from the few short extracts from the
report in reference to this last exploring visit:--'Our snow-house, on
the 25th, was built in lat. 68° 48' N., long. 85° 4' W., near a small
stream, frozen (like all others that we had passed) to the bottom. We
had not yet obtained a drop of water of nature's thawing, and fuel
being rather a scarce article, we sometimes took small kettles of snow
under the blanket with us, to thaw it with the heat of our bodies.
Leaving two men to endeavour to fish and shoot, I went forward with the
others, and crossed Garry Bay, passing inside a number of islets.'

"The party returned to their snow hut on the 25th, where, says the
report--' The men we had left here were well, but very thin, as they
had neither caught nor shot anything eatable, except two marmots. Had
we been absent twelve hours more, they were to have cooked a piece of
parchment skin for supper.' The whole party returned safe and well to
York Factory on the 6th of September last."

During the year 1847, several eminent men were called away from the
sphere of their earthly honour and usefulness. Among these was Mr.
Gurney, of Norwich, a man who attracted a considerable share of public
attention by his talents, energies, and benevolence. As a member of the
Society of Friends, he became very influential in that body, and was
recognised as one of the most enlightened of their ministers. He took
part with his sister, the celebrated Mrs. Fry, in prison visitations.
His interviews with M. Guizot concerning negro slavery were very
influential with that statesman. Mr. Gurney was an author, especially on
Biblical and polemical topics. He also wrote on scientific subjects, but
chiefly in their relation to theology. As a writer he was more scholarly
than elegant, more learned than profound, more discursive than logical.
He lived and died an eminently good man.

On the 13th of February, in the 66th year of his age, Sharon Turner,
the historian of the Anglo-Saxons, departed this life. He was a
distinguished archaeologist and historian.

On the 22nd April, Thomas B. Martin, Esq., M.P. for Galway, died. He was
the largest landed proprietor in Ireland, and a very noted man in the
political and social affairs of that country.

The 27th of April witnessed the death of a very remarkable man, Lord
Cowley, in the 75th year of his age. He was the youngest son of the
first Earl of Mornington, and consequently youngest brother of the Duke
of Wellington. Mr. Henry Wellesley began professional life as aprecis
writer in the Foreign Office. After serving for two years there,
he accompanied the embassy of Lord Malmesbury to Lisle. In 1797 he
accompanied his brother, the Marquis Wellesley to India, as private
secretary. He was, after twelve months' service in that capacity,
appointed one of the commissioners to Mysore. In that office he showed
not only talent but genius. Subsequently he was sent to Oude, on an
especial mission, and conducted his diplomacy with so much tact, that he
obtained the cession of territory which brought the company a revenue
of nearly a million sterling. He was subsequently appointed to the
government of the country thus ceded. On his return from India he
entered parliament, where his mode of speaking very much resembled that
of his brother Arthurshort, pointed, and to the purpose. He resumed his
diplomatic engagements, and was appointed envoy to Spain. He resigned
his position in the treasury, under the government of the Duke of
Portland, for this office, in 1809, and continued in it until 1811, when
he was directed to continue his services at that court, with the title
of ambassador. In 1812 he was made a Knight of the Bath. He continued
in Spain until 1822. He was then sent to Vienna, and ultimately to the
court of the Tuileries, as the representative of his country. He was
made a peer, and various other public honours were conferred upon him.
Upon the breaking up of Sir Robert Peel's administration, he gave place
to the Marquis of Normanby, but took up his residence at Paris, and
remained there until the time of his decease. He was twice married;
in the first instance to Lady Charlotte Cadogan, which marriage was
dissolved. His second wife was Lady Georgiana Cecil, daughter of the
Marquis of Salisbury. The talent which characterised the whole of
the Wellesley family was very extraordinary; every member of it
distinguished himself in some way in the service of his country, and
obtained honour, won by his own assiduity and genius.

Sir Robert Stopford, admiral of the red, vice-admiral of the United
Kingdom, and governor of Greenwich Hospital, died on June 25, in the
88th year of his age. This distinguished sailor had entered the navy in
very early youth, and was in most of the great actions that were fought
during his eventful life. He was much beloved by the navy. His life was
remarkably free from disputes with public men, especially in his own
profession. There was one notable instance, however, to the contrary.
Sir Charles Napier, who served under him off the coast of Syria,
disobeyed orders, and added to the disobedience fierce attacks upon the
gallant old admiral, who came out of the discussion with honour, while
his disputatious antagonist suffered much in public opinion by the
attacks which he made upon his superior officer.

On the 28th of July, the death of John Walter, of Bearwood, Berkshire,
caused a great sensation. To that gentleman the _Times_ newspaper
owes its progressive power. His inventive genius, his business habits,
dispatch, punctuality, and enterprise, raised the paper to the pitch
of popularity it afterwards attained, and which it has ever since
preserved.

On the same day another eminent man passed away, Sir George Martin,
G.C.B., admiral of the fleet, and viceadmiral of the United Kingdom. His
services were innumerable. Through a long life he endured the perils and
shared the glory of naval war, and died regretted by his country.

On the 7th of December, Mr. B. Liston, the celebrated surgeon, died; and
during the same month many professional men, and many men of letters.

The space allotted to this history would not allow of even a brief
notice of all the eminent persons who passed from life during this year
in the British Isles, and subjects of Great Britain in other countries.
Many distinguished men were lost to the navy and army, whose valour and
renown were precious in the esteem of the nation; but so numerous are
the heroes of Great Britain, in all ages, that the names of deceased
warriors are only noticed with ordinary respect and regret, whose
death would, in any other nation, be an event to attract the sustained
attention of the people. The year made sad havoc especially in the navy
list, from which the names of many of the best and bravest were removed.


PARLIAMENTARY HISTORY OF THE YEAR.

The distressed condition of the poor of the British Isles, the
disarrangement of commercial affairs, the famine in Ireland, and the
crime prevailing in that country, rendered it necessary to open the
session of 1847 earlier than usual. Accordingly, on the 19th of January
her majesty, in person, read the speech from the throne. It referred to
all these subjects in a manner appropriate to the occasion. The marriage
of the Infanta of Spain to the Duke of Montpensier, was simply
noticed as having given rise to a correspondence between her majesty's
government and that of France. When her majesty came to the passage
referring to the Montpensier marriage, the house was intensely still,
and every eye watched the royal countenance to see if any indication of
her private feelings would be given. This portion of the royal speech
was read with a peculiar expression of displeasure by her majesty, never
before witnessed in her countenance on a public occasion. In private,
the royal lady did not hesitate to denounce the conduct of Louis
Philippe as utterly faithless, and she was accustomed to refer to him as
incapable of acting with the honour of a private gentleman, for he had
given his hand to her while making a solemn promise that this marriage
should not take place. This state of feeling on the part of her majesty
was well known to the King of the French, who, while he regretted it,
took credit to himself for having frustrated her majesty's own
intention to have the infanta married to a Cobourg. Her reference to
the extinction of the free city and state of Cracow was made in terms of
great severity, as a manifest violation of the treaty of Vienna, and her
intention of laying before the house copies of her protests to the three
states was expressed. Allusion was made to the action of the combined
squadrons of France and England in the River Plate. Her majesty read the
passages which described the condition of Ireland with a subdued tone,
as if mingled shame and sympathy struggled within her breast.

The debates which ensued upon the address were neither remarkable for
judgment nor eloquence. Lord Stanley, in the lords, was, as usual,
apt, ready, and ingenious, but dealt in platitudes unworthy of his
reputation. Lord Brougham was bitter against his former friends,
allowing his personal spleen to interfere with his patriotism and the
public welfare. He did not succeed either in embarrassing the ministry
or enlightening the lords. The debates in the commons were regarded with
more interest by the country than those in the lords. Mr. Disraeli's
sarcasm that the house of lords had become "the high court of registry,"
had truth in it. The address gave rise to much animated discussion,
envenomed by party spirit. Smith O'Brien laid the grievances of Ireland
before the house in terms more patriotic and honest than wise. Lord
George Bentinck taunted the government with the failure of their
remedial measures for Ireland, political and material, and his taunts
were keenly felt. The cabinet was not equal to the crisis.

On the 21st of January Lord John Russell moved that the house should
go into committee on the corn importation acts; and he announced his
intention to follow that up by a motion on the navigation laws, by which
they should be suspended until the 6th of November. He accordingly first
proposed the suspension of the duties on the importation of foreign corn
until September. Bills were brought in, and passed both houses with
the utmost rapidity, the standing orders being waived. On the 25th they
received the royal assent. On that day ministers communicated their
plans for the melioration of Irish suffering. So overwhelming was the
wretchedness of Ireland, that the amount of relief for January was
calculated by Lord John Russell at three-quarters of a million sterling.
Colonel Jones, who was at the head of the board of works in Ireland,
with very little advantage to his country, and no moral advantage to
himself, had, in a letter dated the 19th, stated the difficulties which
were admitted to stand in the way of employing labourers. The people
were so reduced by famine that task-work could not be imposed upon them,
and Colonel Jones was therefore of opinion that to give food was, on the
whole, cheaper than to employ such labour. Lord John Russell made very
effective use of this letter in support of the views which he presented
to the house. He stated that the money advanced for public works should
not be exacted in full, but half remitted upon the payment of each
instalment. The next proposal of the premier was for a grant of £50,000
in advance, to enable proprietors to procure seed for the land. His
lordship animadverted in very indignant terms upon the conduct of men
of mark in Ireland, who, instead of paying their rates for the relief
of the poor, invited them to make demands with which no government could
comply. He instanced the union of Castlebar, in the county of Mayo,
where there was room in the workhouse for six hundred persons, and only
one hundred and twenty were admitted, while the Marquis of Sligo and
Mr. Moore addressed a letter to the people of the district, calling upon
them to meet at Castlebar and "demand their rights." Lord John dwelt
eloquently upon the want of self-reliance and co-operation displayed in
Ireland, and affirmed the utter impossibility of government or any
human power interposing so as to prevent the continuance of many of
the painful consequences of harvest failure already experienced. His
lordship's counsels and cautions were badly received, both by the Irish
members and by the people of Ireland, and notwithstanding his liberal
measures of relief, his speech added to his unpopularity in that
country. The Irish were very unwilling to adopt the philosophy of Mr.
Disraeli, "Whether, under any circumstances, it should be the office
of a government to supply the people with food is a very interesting
question. When famine prevails there will always be a numerous party
who will maintain the affirmative. Death and decimation are stern facts
which seem to bring conviction. Yet it is the duty of a minister to
consider whether, if the government were to interfere, the death might
not be increased, and the rate of mortality aggravated."

Another measure for the relief of Ireland was proposed by ministers to
enable government to make advances from the treasury on the security of
the rates, and excited a debate, when its committal was moved on the 8th
of February. This debate was remarkable as giving an opportunity to the
great agitator for his last parliamentary effort. He declared that two
millions of the Irish population must perish if the parliament did not
come forward with adequate relief; while he proclaimed their measures
totally inadequate, and showing either ignorance of the state of the
country, or want of sympathy for its sufferings. He affirmed that in the
ruin which had fallen on the land, any attempt to levy rates would
be abortive, and drive the people to desperation. The honourable and
venerable member depicted the condition of the people with truthful
eloquence, and he was no less correct in showing the shortcomings of the
government schemes of relief. His speech was delivered in a faint voice,
and with every symptom of physical exhaustion. He was heard with the
most profound attention and respect. His predictions, unfortunately,
came to pass. His dissolution was hastened by his inability to procure
an assent to his views in the house, and by the consequences which he so
clearly foresaw.

Lord John's measures for the relief of Ireland having been carried, he
on the 1st of March proposed a permanent measure to compel the land
to support the pauper poor. On the 12th of March his lordship made an
elaborate defence of his scheme, which wras warmly debated, Mr. Roebuck
acrimoniously attacking Irish landlords, and Mr. Smith O'Brien insisting
that the blame of the condition of Ireland rested upon the government.
Government, however, was not left alone to initiate measures of Irish
relief. Lord George Bentinck, on the 4th of February, brought forward
a motion for the reproductive employment of Irish labour by the
construction of railways in Ireland. This motion his lordship advocated
eloquently, and it has been agreed that his oration was the best he ever
delivered. His plan was in all respects sound considered in reference to
the principles of political economy, and more useful, practically, than
any which the government had devised; yet the ministerial side of the
house treated it with ridicule. An advance of sixteen millions sterling
to promote railways in Ireland they scouted as preposterous; but no
effective answer was given to the facts and figures of Lord George, who
was singularly careful on this occasion in his preparation of both. The
bill was brought in without any opposition from the government, but it
was foreseen that the influence of the cabinet would be used for its
defeat. Accordingly, on the 12th of February, on the proposal of the
second reading, government opposition was offered: the debate, after an
adjournment, was resumed on the 15th, and continued through that day and
the next, when the bill was thrown out by an overwhelming majority.

On the 22nd of February the chancellor of the exchequer made his
financial statement, and made a demand for an eight millions loan on
behalf of Ireland, noticed elsewhere. He gave an appalling picture of
the state of the English poor, showing that, in Manchester alone, nearly
thirty thousand workmen and labourers were out of employment, while the
prospect of the augmentation of the unemployed there was disheartening.
The grant for Ireland was especially opposed by two members of the
house, who, while they sympathised beyond most other members with the
political agitators of Ireland, looked upon her material condition
without an equally warm interest, and regarded her rather from an
English than an imperial point of view; these members were Mr. Hume and
Mr. Roebuck. Government was triumphant in those measures, so far as the
support of a majority in the commons was concerned. It was, however,
felt that neither the men nor the measures were adequate to the
exigencies of party, any more than to the magnitude of the occasion.
Lord John Russell was vacillating and time-serving, although with a show
of resolution in resisting and defeating measures which afterwards
met, at all events, his qualified approval. This was most singularly
exemplified in connection with Lord George Bentinck's measure for an
advance of money to create railways in Ireland. On the 26th of April
the house was taken by surprise when the chancellor of the exchequer
proposed a loan to certain Irish railways. The proposed sum was
£620,000, half a million of which was to be advanced to one particular
railway--"the great South Western." This gave great offence to many. Mr.
Hume led off the opposition, Mr. Roebuck followed, of course, with fiery
impetuosity; Sir Robert Peel disapproved of it, and the whole Peel party
echoed his objections. Lord George Bentinck exulted in the homage paid
to his counsels by the tardy, trimming, half measure, or less than
half measure of her majesty's advisers. Notwithstanding so rigorous an
opposition from so many quarters, government was so well backed by
the Irish members and the ministerial hacks who represented British
constituencies, that they carried this and several other measures to
which a similar opposition was offered. The remark that the railway
scheme of Sir Charles Wood was the fag-end of Lord George Bentinck's
measure, was received with loud cheers by the house, and was repeated
much "out of doors." During these debates the grossest ignorance of
Ireland, her people, resources, and financial relation to Great Britain,
was evinced by English representatives. Mr. Hume and Mr. Roebuck were
very conspicuous in this respect. Mr. Disraeli had the folly to say
that the railway scheme of Lord George Bentinck would be beneficial to
Ireland, in a political, moral, and social point of view, irrespective
of material advantage, because the Roman Catholic and Protestant
populations would be brought to work together as "navvies!" Mr.
Disraeli did not know that not one man, probably, out of five thousand
in that class of labourers in Ireland was a Protestant, and that
if working together in the same employments would be sufficient
to reconcile them, the reconciliation must have been long ago
effected--over the whole of Ulster, at least. The differences between
Irish Protestants and Roman Catholics were founded in principle,
cherished deeply and warmly by them respectively, and were not, and
are not, to be healed by the political or economical quackery of Mr.
Disraeli, or politicians who, like him, share with neither party in the
earnestness of their opinions. The Irish Protestant and the Irish Roman
Catholic believe that the political ascendancy of their respective
creeds is necessary to the development of their power and usefulness,
and strive, therefore, with jealous eagerness and honesty for that
ascendancy. Whatever concessions on this ground the Protestants might be
induced to make, the spirit of Irish Romanism is ultramontane in every
province and in every social grade of the people.

The Earl of Lincoln and Lord Monteagle united in bringing under the
notice of the commons and lords the subject of Irish emigration,
and each of these noble persons occupied the time and attention
of parliament with an impracticable measure. The general want of
parliamentary tact and practical sagacity evinced by the members of
both houses at this juncture was discouraging to those who regarded
parliament as the hope of the nation.

Parliament was much occupied with Irish and financial questions during
the session; several other matters, however, occupied earnest attention.
Mr. Fielden, member for Oldham, brought before the commons a measure for
shortening the hours of labour of women and children, and young persons
in factories. His agitation of this subject derived additional interest
from the fact that he himself had been a poor factory boy, and had,
to use his own expression, always "stood by his order." His measure
proposed the limitation of labour to twelve hours a clay, allowing two
hours out of the twelve for meals, and he would apply this rule to all
young persons between the ages of thirteen and eighteen. On Saturday,
however, he would limit the hours to eight, making a total of
sixty-three hours in the week until the 1st of May, 1848, after which
the total hours of labour for each young person in the week should
be fifty-eight. These restrictions he would apply to all females,
of whatever age, engaged in factory labour. The working-classes were
strongly in favour of Mr. Fielden's motion. Mr. Cobden had said the
previous year that, if the matter was postponed for twelve months, the
feelings of the working-classes would change; but that eloquent and
philanthropic man very often proved himself a bad prophet, and never
more signally than in this instance. The desire of the working-classes
for some such law had greatly increased since the time Mr. Cobden
declared that it would abate. On the second reading of the bill a fierce
opposition was offered, based upon principles of political economy.
Sir Robert Peel, Mr. Hume, Mr. Trelawney, Sir Charles Wood, Mr. Mark
Philips, and Mr. Bright, were the chief opponents of the measure. Mr.
Bright very ably animadverted upon the vacillation of Lord John Russell
upon this subject, and the mischief inflicted upon the interests in
question by the noble lord's indecision.

Lord John Russell avowed his support of the principle of the measure,
because parliament had already given its sanction to that principle,
but he objected to the details. The bill was very ably supported by
Mr. Ricardo and Mr. Duncombe. Several speeches were made on its behalf,
which were calculated to damage it, and to awaken the alarm of the
manufacturing interest; these were made by Mr. Sharman Crawford, Mr.
Ferrand, Mr. Borthwick, Sir Robert Inglis, and Mr. Newdegate. Mr.
Roebuck offered an able and formidable opposition to it. Mr. Brotherton
made a feeling appeal to the house, assuring it that the working-classes
were borne down by the oppressive number of their hours of toil; that it
was impossible for them to accomplish a better arrangement by voluntary
agreement; that he himself had worked in a factory, and felt the
oppressiveness of the burden, resolving, if ever he could, to contribute
to the emancipation of the workmen from so great an evil, and declaring
that he still retained in their original freshness the feelings he
then cherished. This noble appeal was received by the house with warm
demonstrations of applause. Sir James Graham endeavoured to remove the
effect which it produced, setting out with the paltry sophism that Mr.
Brotherton had risen by the long-hour system, ergo, he should not oppose
it! The fair implication of Mr. Brotherton's speech was that he had
risen _in spite_ of the long-hour system, and if Sir James could have
regarded the arguments of the honourable member for Salford with common
candour, he must have drawn that inference. The bill was carried through
both houses with rapid success, after undergoing certain modifications.
Lord Brougham took occasion to launch his thunders against his former
friends in the ministry for their varying opinions, forgetful that from
him this reproach, however well founded, came with the worst possible
grace.

On the 22nd of March Mr. Fox Maule moved the second reading of a bill
for shortening the period of service in the army. The bill was opposed
by Sir Howard Douglas, who did not on this occasion give his last
mistaken opinion on military affairs. Colonel Sibthorp, the opponent
of every improvement in the law, was an appropriate companion for Sir
Howard Douglas in this opposition. Colonel Reid also denounced the
measure. It received support from Major Layard, who exposed the
injustice of the Duke of Wellington's Horse-guards' administration by
instances of the gross political partiality displayed in the promotion
of officers. Sir De Lacy Evans, the friend of the soldier, the supporter
of every liberal opinion and just law, supported Mr. Maule. Mr. Sidney
Herbert afforded a qualified support. The measure passed the commons,
and received an eloquent and powerful advocacy in the lords from the
Duke of Wellington. This mainly contributed to the success of the bill,
for the lords were disposed to throw it out. The Earl of Lucan proposed
a plan calculated to reconcile parties; but the Duke of Wellington was
so strenuously in favour of the plan of the government, that it was
carried, but by a very small majority.


GOVERNMENT PLAN OF EDUCATION.

Few subjects had engaged the attention of the country more than that of
popular education. The government resolved upon an enlarged scheme, and
submitted their views to parliament. The plan was essentially in the
interest of the Established Church, and had the appearance of being
intended not only as a means of proselytizing dissenters, but also
to disparage them. No measure could be more adapted to aggravate the
differences between the two great sections of English Protestants. An
opposition was awakened among all the dissenting communities of the most
hearty nature, and the government sowed the seeds of distrust of the
whig party, which their old abettors, the dissenters, have cherished to
this day, although ten years have since elapsed. It is unlikely that
the Whigs, as a party, will ever regain the confidence of the Protestant
dissenters of Great Britain. The whig government showed its usual
inaptitude to perceive the real state of public feeling among the
lower strata of the middle classes, and the unhappy faculty of making
unpalatable measures, as _mal apropos_ as possible in the time and mode
of their introduction.

Lord Lansdowne introduced the measure to the lords. Upon certain minutes
emanating from the privy council the government based their measure.
It comprised a system of educational grants, and of school inspection,
which virtually consigned the education of the country to the custody
of the clergy of the Established Church. In the lords the measure of
the ministers passed with little question; in the commons numerous and
stormy debates ensued. Mr. Macaulay, on the one hand, and Mr. Bright,
on the other, threw some acrimony into these debates, but probably the
former never appeared to less advantage in parliament, nor the latter
to more advantage than in this discussion. Government succeeded in
disarming the Roman Catholic members from opposition by a private
understanding that, although by the minutes of the educational committee
of the privy council then under consideration, they were debarred from
any grant, separate minutes would afterwards be introduced in their
especial behalf. There was also an understanding with the Wesleyan
Methodists on the principle of the grants to their schools, the
inspection to be exercised, and the selection of pupil teachers,
which disarmed the opposition of that numerous and energetic body. The
Unitarians were also conciliated by the explanations which were offered
to them, and that body was so extremely anxious for the spread
of education, that they were ready to accept a position of great
denominational disadvantage, in order to see the extension of some
plan that would conduce to the mitigation of popular ignorance. The
Congregationalists and Baptists, Presbyterians and Friends, and various
other bodies of Methodists who adopted the voluntary principle, were
beyond conciliation. They boldly demanded equal rights for all, and
perfect freedom of education. This large class of persons were much
maligned by the Earl of Surrey, when he consented to have Boman
Catholics excluded from the minutes, because, in his opinion, if they
were placed within the circle of advantage which the government was
willing to accord, all the dissenting sects would assail them with
an increased and perhaps successful opposition. The objections of the
"voluntary dissenters," and more liberal sections of churchmen, were
unaffected by theological considerations; they desired that their
schools should be protected from government interference, and
remain uncorrupted by government patronage, and they objected to the
unconstitutional authority, as they deemed it, exercised by the
privy council. No public man out of their own party ever had so much
intercourse with those classes as Lord Brougham, who, at the same time,
understood them so little. His lordship affected to "live and move and
have his being" in an atmosphere of liberality and enlightenment too
high for the earnestly religious men of the country to attain. From
this elevation he looked down upon their conflicts with an affected
compassion, which if meant to cover his disdain was very unsuccessful,
and it brought out more prominently his lordship's thorough ignorance of
the tone and principles of these classes, many of whom had studied the
merits of the whole question with far more undivided attention, and not
less capacity, than he had.

Lord Lansdowne could not introduce a more comprehensive plan, but he
admitted the impossibility of his so doing, because society was divided
into two great classes, churchmen and dissenters, who loved education
much, but controversy more. Never was a sentence uttered in parliament
where the religious feelings and opinions of the people were concerned,
even by Lord Brougham himself, more unfounded in fact. The assertion was
certainly true of a great many, both churchmen and dissenters, but there
was a far greater number of each who loved education very much, and who
did not regard controversy with any favour--men of strong conscientious
principles, and of deep and earnest piety, who were not prepared
to sacrifice their opinions to any government, or to any view of
expediency, whatever the end proposed.

Instead of making these classes the object of his constant sneers, Lord
Brougham would have rendered more service to his country, and have been
more just, had he honoured their scruples, and devoted himself to the
production of some scheme which, whether successful or not in passing
the legislature, would have laid the basis of an ultimate acceptance by
its respect for the religious rights of all. No plan of education
will ever gain acceptance in England, so long as there is freedom of
discussion and religious liberty, which recognises either a sectarian or
a state ascendancy in education. As the Bishop of Oxford once said, as
to the feasibility of a compulsory system of education--"We are too
free a people for such a scheme ever to be carried out amongst us."
Carlisle showed his philosophy and accuracy of historical knowledge
when he described the Roundheads and Cavaliers as honest, earnest men,--
heroes, because nobly true to the principles they had espoused, and
fearless of all consequences in their avowal; but that eloquent writer
showed, like Lord Brougham, his ignorance of the classes of men which,
in the present age, succeed to the opinions of Roundheads and Cavaliers,
when he declares that there are no such men in the England of to-day.
They are now as earnest and more numerous: let the same circumstances
call them forth and they will be found. A superior civilisation, a
clearer understanding of the principles of civil and religious
liberty, a more tolerant temper now prevail, but there is as much
conscientiousness still; and now as ever, in this and in every land,
men, deeply imbued with the principles of Christianity, will be found
ready to bear the testimony of the advocate or the confessor, as events
demand. The spirit evinced by Lord Brougham pervaded, to a less extent,
a large number of the members of both houses, and produced impressions
amongst the numerous classes thus contemptuously treated, which worked
deeply into their hearts, and influenced for many a year the votes
at elections, and the general feeling of the people towards the great
historical parties by which parliament had been divided.

The government carried its measure; £100,000 was devoted to educational
purposes on the plan provided by the minutes of the Committee of
Education of the Privy Council. The discussions so long existing on the
question of education received, however, a new impetus, and became
more acrimonious than before. A very large party was gradually created
favourable to a national system of secular education, leaving the
religious care of the scholars to denominational supervision. A very
large class of earnest men became still more devoted than ever to the
voluntary system of education, and prodigious efforts were made to
promote it. It was found, however, that the expense was such as to defy
voluntary efforts, except as sustained through a long period, while
the deficiency to be met was urgent and extensive. To carry out any
government system that would at all meet the necessity, and respect the
scruples of all classes would also entail an enormous burden upon the
nation. In the debate on the question to which this section refers, Mr.
Duncombe depicted the heavy public burdens that would be thus imposed:
Mr. Macaulay exclaimed, "A penny a-head." Mr. Duncombe's retort, that
this statement was a romance was merited. Mr. Macaulay could never have
examined the financial bearing of this great question thoroughly, or his
acute mind must have discovered the fallacy of the opinion he so rashly
hazarded.

The discussions in and out of parliament brought to light a vast mass
of statistics as to the crime and ignorance with which the worthful
elements of society had to contend. The alarm felt by good men in the
result of these revelations strengthened the hands of government
in passing the bill. Objections were raised by many in view of the
magnitude of the evil to be encountered, and a sense of responsibility
in connection with some immediate and extensive action. The reverend
Doctor Guthrie, on a different and subsequent occasion, eloquently
expressed what was at this juncture so generally felt:--"When men die,
corruption commonly begins after death, but when nations die, it always
begins before it. And as in that man's gangrened extremities, and
swollen feet, and slow circulation, I see the heralds of death
approaching,--in these godless masses, sunk in ignorance, lost to the
profession of religion, and even to the decent habits of civilised
society, I see the most alarming signs of a nation's danger, unless
remedies are promptly applied, the unmistakeable forerunners of a
nation's death. Unless early, active, adequate measures are employed
to arrest the progress of our social maladies, there remains for this
mighty empire no fate but the grave--that grave which has closed over
all that have gone before it. Where are the Assyrian and Egyptian
monarchies? Where is the Macedonian empire? Where the world-wide power
of Rome? Egypt lies entombed amid the dust of her catacombs. Assyria is
buried beneath the mounds of Nineveh. Rome lives only in the pages of
history, survives but in the memory of her greatness, and the majestic
ruins of the 'Eternal City.' Shall our fate resemble theirs? Shall it
go to prove that Providence has extended the same law of mortality to
nations that lies on men--that they also should struggle through the
dangers of a precarious infancy; grow up into the beauty, and burn with
the ardour, of youth; arrive at the vigour of perfect manhood; and then,
slowly sinking, pass through the blindness and decay of old age, until
they drop into the tomb? Under God, it depends upon ourselves whether
that shall or shall not be our fate. Matters are not so far gone but it
may yet be averted. A great French general, who reached the battle-field
at sundown, found that the troops of his country had been worsted in
the fight; unskilful arrangements had neutralised Gallic bravery, and
offered the enemy advantages they were not slow to seize. He accosted
the unfortunate commander; having rapidly learned how matters stood,
he pulled out his watch, turned his eye on the sinking sun, and said,
'There's time yet to gain the victory.' He rallied the broken ranks; he
placed himself at their head, and launching them with the arm of a giant
in war, upon the columns of the foe, he plucked the prize from their
hands--won the day. There is no time to lose. To her case, perhaps, may
be applied the words, which we would leave as a solemn warning to every
worldly, careless, Christless man, 'Behold, now is the accepted time;
behold, now is the day of salvation.'"


BILL FOR CREATING A NEW DIOCESS OF MANCHESTER.

The government brought in a bill for this purpose which excited much
discussion in parliament, and much discontent in the locality more
immediately interested. The second reading was proposed by Lord
Lansdowne on the 7th of June. The bill also created a new archdeaconry
of Liverpool, The bill proposed to exclude the new bishop from a seat in
parliament. This evoked opposition from the high church party, but the
success of the measure was secured by this proviso; for the opposition
raised in Lancashire was so great that the government could hardly have
proceeded with the bill had a seat in the House of Peers been associated
with the new see. It was provided, however, that when a vacancy, by
death or otherwise, occurred on the bench of bishops, the bishop of
Manchester should succeed to a seat in that house. This introduced a new
principle in the relations of the episcopal bench to the peerage; for
a bishop would not in future have a seat in their lordships' house as a
matter of course, but would occupy his see without such privilege until
a vacancy occurred.


DEBATE ON THE ANNEXATION OF CRACOW.

The annexation of Cracow to the Austrian empire has been already related
in this chapter. Several allusions were made to this in the debates
on the address, but on the 4th of March Mr. Hume brought the subject
forward in a formal manner. Mr. Hume, however, so mixed up the subject
with the Russo-Dutch loan, that his resolutions as far as regarded
Cracow were impracticable, and he withdrew them after uselessly
occupying the time of the house by a long debate.

There were few matters of interest connected with the remainder of the
session. Lord Palmerston delivered a speech in which he animadverted
so severely on the bad faith of the Spanish government, in reference to
Spanish bonds, as to produce great indignation in Spain. It was supposed
that the good effects of the speech, however, would be felt by those
interested in the punctual disbursements of the Spanish government. That
government had too little probity to meet the calls of honour, and too
little shame to be moved by the disapprobation of honest men.

It was resolved by the government of Lord John Russell to advise her
majesty to dissolve parliament, so that the elections might terminate
before harvest; various bills were therefore postponed or abandoned.

Lord Lyndhurst had been accustomed to take a retrospective view of each
session, in a speech which recapitulated the doings and misdoings of
government, according to his lordship's view of them. Lord Brougham,
ambitious to do everything, even when he knew others could do it
better, resolved to perform the task usually sustained by his brother
ex-chancellor. The performance was inferior to that usually accomplished
by the noble Baron Lyndhurst, although in declamatory force Lord
Brougham's oration was perfect. All the bills passed in the session he
described as bad ones. Many of those lost or abandoned, if introduced by
government, he represented as useless, and their introduction as a waste
of time. Every epithet of contempt furnished by the English language,
and by any other which his lordship knew, however imperfectly, was
heaped upon the defunct bills. They were consigned to the shades
below, to that "lean world" where--

     "Ibant obseuri sola sub nocte per nmbram
     Perque domos Ditis vacuas et mania regna."

What his lordship said of the defunct measures will be true of himself,
when his great energies are still, and his eloquent tongue silent for
ever--"A thousand faults and a thousand freaks died with them." His
lordship appended a condemnatory motion to his speech, which, like most
of his motions, came to nothing. The house was greatly amused, and even
instructed, by the noble lord's oration, but not at all edified. The
Marquis of Lansdowne replied with that calm and graceful dignity by
which that venerable peer was so much distinguished; and his reply
carried with it the weight of his consistent political character, for
the house unanimously adopted his course.


PROROGATION AND DISSOLUTION OF PARLIAMENT.

On the 23rd of July, parliament was prorogued by her majesty. As the
parliament which had been called together in 1841 had been one of the
longest during the century, the prorogation, which was made by her
majesty in person, excited very great public interest, and the queen's
speech was looked for with unusual public attention. The streets leading
to the House of Lords presented the same animated appearance as is usual
on similar occasions. Her majesty, accompanied by Prince Albert,
and attended by the usual great officers of state, entered the royal
carriage, and proceeded from Buckingham Palace to the House of Lords
shortly before two o'clock. As the royal procession passed through
St. James's Park, and along the line of road, her majesty and her
illustrious consort were loudly cheered by the spectators who had
assembled to witness this splendid pageant. On the arrival of the royal
_cortège_ at the House of Lords, it was announced by a discharge of
cannon.

Her majesty having robed, she immediately proceeded to the house, and
took her seat on the throne. Prince Albert occupied a state chair on
the right of the sovereign. The entrance of her majesty to the house was
announced by a nourish of trumpets. The peers and peeresses all rose as
the queen entered. The new house was crowded, and presented a brilliant
spectacle. All, or nearly all, the foreign ambassadors and ministers
were present. The dresses of the ladies were very elegant.

Her majesty having taken her seat, the Lord Chancellor directed Sir
Augustus Clifford, Usher of the Black Rod, to summon the House of
Commons to hear the royal speech on the prorogation of parliament. In a
short time the speaker, accompanied by a number of members, appeared at
the bar, when the right honourable gentleman, as is usual, addressed her
majesty in a short speech, recounting the business of the session, and
concluded by praying the royal assent to several bills which had passed
both houses. Her majesty then read the following most gracious speech:--

"_My Lords and Gentlemen_,--I have much satisfaction in being able to
release you from the duties of a laborious and anxious session. I cannot
take leave of you without expressing my grateful sense of the assiduity
and zeal with which you have applied yourselves to the consideration of
the public interests. Your attention has been principally directed
to the measures of immediate relief which a great and unprecedented
calamity rendered necessary.

"I have given my cheerful assent to those laws which, by allowing the
free admission of grain, and by affording facilities for the use of
sugar in breweries and distilleries, tend to increase the quantity of
human food, and to promote commercial intercourse.

"I rejoice to rind that you have in no instance proposed new
restrictions, or interfered with the liberty of foreign or internal
trade; as a mode of relieving distress. I feel assured that such
measures are generally ineffectual, and, in some cases, aggravate the
evils for the alleviation of which they are adopted.

"I cordially approve of the acts of large and liberal bounty by which
you have assuaged the sufferings of my Irish subjects. I have also
readily given my sanction to a law to make better provision for the
permanent relief of the destitute in Ireland. I have likewise given
my assent to various bills calculated to promote the agriculture and
develop the industry of that portion of the United Kingdom. My attention
shall be directed to such further measures as may be conducive to those
salutary purposes.

"My relations with foreign powers continue to inspire me with confidence
in the maintenance of peace. It has afforded me great satisfaction to
find that the measures which, in concert with the King of the French,
the Queen of Spain, and the Queen of Portugal, I have taken for the
pacification of Portugal, have been attended with success; and that the
civil war which for many months had afflicted that country has, at last,
been brought to a bloodless termination. I indulge the hope that future
differences between political parties in that country may be settled
without an appeal to arms.

"_Gentlemen of the House of Commons_,--I thank you for your willingness
in granting me the necessary supplies; they shall be applied with due
care and economy to the public service.

"I am happy to inform you that, notwithstanding the high price of food,
the revenue has, up to the present time, been more productive than I
had reason to anticipate. The increased use of articles of general
consumption has chiefly contributed to this result. The revenue derived
from sugar, especially, has been greatly augmented by the removal of the
prohibitory duties on foreign sugar.

"The various grants which you have made for education in the United
Kingdom will, I trust, be conducive to the religious and moral
improvement of my people.

"_My Lords and Gentlemen_,--I think it proper to inform you that it is
my intention immediately to dissolve the present parliament.

"I rely with confidence on the loyalty to the throne, and attachment to
the free institutions of this country, which animate the great body of
my people. I join with them in supplications to Almighty God that the
dearth by which we have been afflicted may, by the Divine blessing, be
converted into cheapness and plenty."

An event occurred at this juncture not unimportant to the government,
and in which the Roman Catholics of Ireland felt concern. The O'Connor
Don, one of the members for Roscommon, and a lord of the Treasury, died.
He was a patriotic Irishman, of superior education and intelligence, and
much respected, not only by the county he represented, but in Ireland
generally. In the province of Connaught he was regarded with the
reverence paid to a Celtic chief.

Parliament having been dissolved, writs were at once issued for the
election of members for a new one. The especial feature of this election
was the want of a definite policy on the part of the great body of the
candidates. The Whigs seemed to have no clear notion of what they ought
to propose to themselves or to the country. Lord John Russell, as has
always been his custom, referred to his past life as the standard by
which the electors should judge his future policy. A suspicion existed
in the electoral body in Great Britain that it was the intention of
government to endow the Roman Catholic clergy, and this injured the
cause of such Whig candidates as were not very explicit on this matter.
The previous parliament had added to the influence of the church by
increasing the number of bishops, and by their education plan; this
prejudiced many of the Dissenters against Whigism in general, and the
government leaders of that school as its most prominent advocates.
There was a general expectation that, whatever the complexion of the new
parliament, Sir Robert Peel would of necessity be in power before
its dissolution. The energy of the country party was, however, mainly
directed against the Peelites, and their strength was sufficient to bar,
for a time at all events, the approaches to power against Sir Robert.

The elections proceeded throughout Great Britain with fairness, except
that the landlords in some places exercised an influence which was
unconstitutional and unjust. Tenants were evicted because they voted
according to their conscience; and the tradespeople in country towns
were menaced with loss of custom by the neighbouring landowners. In
Ireland the landed interest also exercised an undue influence, and many
cases of extreme hardship occurred. The Boman Catholic clergy used the
power of their office for electioneering purposes, in a way injurious to
their own moral influence, subversive of the rights of the people, and
dangerous to law and order.

The elections terminated by the return of a majority, ostensibly in
favour of government, but there was little earnestness of principle or
purpose to give consistency or continuity to their support.


ASSEMBLING OF A NEW PARLIAMENT.

In consequence of the public distress in Great Britain, the famine in
Ireland, and the disturbed state of that country, it became necessary
for parliament to assemble sooner than had been customary. Accordingly,
on the 18th of November, the first session of the new parliament began;
Mr. Shaw Lefevre was re-elected speaker. On the 23rd, the Marquis of
Lansdowne was commissioned to read her majesty's speech. That document
referred with hope to the state of commercial matters in Great Britain,
and with gratitude to Providence for a bountiful harvest. Her majesty
expressed her sympathy for Irish suffering, and her abhorrence of Irish
crime. She expressed her pleasure at the alacrity showed by all classes
to relieve the destitute in Ireland; and recommended her parliament to
take measures for repressing outrage, and preserving the public peace in
that country. She expressed her regret that civil war had broken out
in Switzerland, and her readiness to use her influence to heal those
distractions. The speech announced a treaty with the republic of the
equator for the suppression of the slave-trade, and avowed confidence in
maintaining the general peace of Europe. The navigation laws, the health
of the metropolis, and the revenue, were also subjects to which she
called the attention of her parliament.

In the debate upon the address, in the lords, Lord Stanley was
unreasonable and virulent; Lord Brougham, always in opposition to
somebody, refuted the conservative leader. He "praised the government
for calling parliament together so soon; justified the interference with
the bank charter, recorded on another page; declared that Ireland
stood in a shameful and hateful pre-eminence of crime, and trusted that
effectual measures would be taken to disarm the people, and protect life
and property."

The debate on the address, in the commons, was chiefly remarkable
for the boldness and extent of Mr. John O'Connell's demands upon the
Treasury for the relief of Ireland. Sir Benjamin Hall made some very
foolish replies to Mr. O'Connell, and added to the bitterness of the
debate. Mr. Maurice O'Connell made the startling declaration that not
more than one-fifth of the sum voted for Ireland had ever reached that
country.

A Roman Catholic archdeacon, named Laffan, at a public meeting in
Cashel, had made a very inflammatory speech, which had excited the
indignation of the public, and was the subject of animadversion in
parliament. Mr. Mahon, an Irish member, was chairman of that meeting,
and the mode in which he palliated the atrocious speech of the
archdeacon caused murmurs of disapprobation in the house. Ireland
appeared to great disadvantage in this debate, and the tone of English
members was not so generous as it ought to have been. The dreadful
crimes perpetrated in Ireland had produced a state of feeling in England
which was almost resentful, notwithstanding the compassion entertained
for the sufferings of the Irish poor. There could be no doubt, as Mr.
Stafford O'Brien reminded the house, that some of the best of landlords
had been assassinated. There appeared to be a relentless thirst for
blood among the Irish peasantry, prompted by fanaticism, famine,
and despair, which was calculated to destroy the sympathy of the
representatives of Great Britain.

The address in the commons was ultimately agreed to after a most
acrimonious debate, protracted by the Irish members and their opponents
far beyond the limits usual on such occasions.


DEBATE ON THE DISTRESS OF THE NATION.

On the 30th the chancellor of the exchequer rose, pursuant of notice,
to move for "a select committee to inquire into the causes of the recent
commercial distress, and how far it has been effected by the laws
for regulating the issue of bank-notes payable on demand." After an
intellectual debate, except so far as some incoherent rhapsodies of Mr.
Urquhart made it otherwise, the motion was acceded to. Sir Robert Peel
appeared to singular advantage in this discussion; he placed the causes
of public distress luminously before the house, and supported the policy
of government. In the lords there was a similar debate, remarkable for
the extraordinary assertion of Lord Brougham, that the public distress
was chiefly to be attributed to the obstinacy of government and
parliament in not taking his advice and that of the Duke of Wellington,
proffered for the last ten years. His lordship seemed ambitious of
identifying himself with the illustrious duke on all possible occasions,
although scarcely any two men could have entertained opinions more
dissonant than these two noble persons.


MEASURES FOR THE REPRESSION OF HOMICIDE AND OUTRAGE IN IRELAND.

The party of Lord John Russell had thwarted the government of Sir Robert
Peel when endeavouring to enact a law for the preservation of life and
property from the lawlessness of the peasantry in Ireland: it was Lord
John's fate, in this session, to invoke Sir Robert's aid in carrying
measures very similar. It became necessary to pass some enactment
calculated to hold Irish outrage in check. Lord John's influence
ultimately suffered by so frequently opposing others in their more
timely efforts to carry measures of which he was glad at last to avail
himself.

In the six months ending October, 1847, there were ninety-six murders,
while the appalling number of one hundred and fifty-six attempts at
assassination had been made. During the same period, one hundred and
sixteen dwelling-houses had been set on fire by incendiaries. But
offences against life, property, and the civil and religious freedom of
the respectable inhabitants, were innumerable. Portions of Ireland were
under a reign of terror. The sympathies of whole districts were on the
side of those by whom rapine and assassination were committed; and there
was a general unwillingness, even among the better class of farmers, and
persons in higher stations still, to bring the malefactors to justice.

Sir George Grey introduced the remedial measures of government. The
proposed bill was to be applicable only to such portions of Ireland as
the lord-lieutenant should proclaim to be disturbed. The reserved force
of Irish constabulary was to be increased from four hundred to six
hundred men--a feature of the scheme so absurdly inadequate as to expose
its authors to ridicule. From this paltry reserve his excellency was to
send forces into the proclaimed districts. This force would be paid out
of the district it was sent to protect--a most salutary arrangement, as
giving the small farmers and clergy an interest in checking insurgent
proceedings. All persons, unless especially exempt from the prohibition,
were to be forbidden the use of arms in proclaimed districts, but they
might have such in their own houses. This provision, which appeared
reasonable in itself, was practically mischievous, for the houses of
many became depots of arms for their companions in disaffection more
suspected than themselves. Robberies of arms were perpetrated by
_unarmed_ bands, who were nevertheless not resisted. Any violation of
the disarming clause of the bill would subject the culprit to three
years' imprisonment. The lord-lieutenant had power to authorise search
for arms in the houses of the suspected, and all prohibited weapons were
to be delivered up on proclamation to that effect, under penalties.
This also was evaded, for as soon as a district was proclaimed, the arms
disappeared into a neighbouring district, not so situated, from whence
incursions were made into the proclaimed district, where the force
was generally too feeble to protect the numerous points upon which the
depredators fell. The police had power to call upon all males between
sixteen and sixty, in any district where a murder was committed, to join
in pursuit of the murderer; and any one who refused, was held guilty of
misdemeanour. This clause alarmed the disaffected more than any other.

The bill was received with loud cheers. Mr. John O'Connell, who had
declared that he would "die on the floor of the house" rather than
allow a coercion bill to pass, admitted the necessity of some provision
against the outrages which had prevailed, and that Sir George Grey's
bill was moderate and just; but he strangely added that he would oppose
it at every stage, unless government passed such a bill regulating the
law of landlord and tenant as he and his party approved. Mr. Fergus
O'Connor bantered Mr. John O'Connell for his subservience to ministers,
which ill accorded with his loud demonstrations of ministerial hostility
in Conciliation Hall. Mr. O'Connor opposed the bill, even in its first
stage. That gentleman wished the Irish repealers to join the chartist
movement, and to place himself at the head of both. Mr. Horsman sensibly
observed that the most appalling thing to him was that the government
had allowed these murders to go on ever since, by the union, the
imperial parliament had undertaken to govern Ireland. Mr. Maurice
O'Connell did not oppose the bill. He also had been a man of fiery words
in Ireland, and paltry deeds in the presence of the government and the
legislature in England. Mr. Disraeli satirised the great outcry about
suppressing outrage, if the addition of two hundred constables were
sufficient. When the second reading was moved on the 6th of December,
Mr. John O'Connell opposed it, and moved "that the orders of the day be
read." The honourable member had been so pressed by Conciliation Hall,
and the Young Irelanders had raised such an outcry against the measure,
that although he approved of the bill, and took care to let the house
see that he did, yet he was obliged to oppose it, or forfeit his
leadership of "Old Ireland." His opposition, however, influenced the
people of England against the O'Connells and their class. Murder
and outrage stalked abroad, and whatever were the wrongs of Ireland,
incendiarism and assassination were not the means of redress upon which
brave men could look unmoved. That a country should fall into such a
state of crime was horrible; that the political leaders of any party
in it could be found to oppose measures so mild, and so little
ultra-constitutional, to put down these dreadful deeds, was still more
horrible. The speech of Mr. John O'Connell exposed himself and his
country to just ridicule. A party numbering millions of persons,
choosing as their principal leader a man so little qualified for the
task, or for any great political undertaking, could not but sink in its
relative importance. In spite of the opposition of a few Irish members,
the bill passed the commons almost unanimously. In the lords but little
opposition was offered. On the motion for going into committee on the
16th December, Lord Farnham brought under the notice of the house that
Major Mahon was murdered after he had been denounced from the altar
of the Roman Catholic chapel by a priest named M'Dermot, to whom Major
Mahon had offered no other offence than objecting to that gentleman and
his clerks constituting the relief committee of the district. The debate
was rendered still more remarkable by a frank and manly speech from Lord
Beaumont, a Roman Catholic peer, deprecating these altar denunciations,
which had so frequently been followed by the murder of the persons
denounced. Lord Beaumont expressed his astonishment that the bishops,
clergy, and laity of the Roman Catholic community did not bring their
moral influence to bear upon those priests who offended against the
laws of God and man in so flagrant a manner. This gave rise to severe
animadversions upon the whole body of Irish Roman Catholics for not
having acted as Lord Beaumont pointed out. Lord Stanley especially
adopted this line of remark, with the dextrous facility his lordship
possessed for turning every occurrence and every admission of an
opponent into an element of party attack. The measure was speedily
passed through the house of lords, and became law.

Notwithstanding these weary debates upon Irish affairs, the house of
commons was obliged to participate in another as acrimonious as any of
the former. Mr. Fergus O'Connor moved for a committee of inquiry into
the circumstances which led to the legislative union between Great
Britain and Ireland, the means by which that act was attained, and its
effect upon the working-classes of both countries. Mr. Henry Grattan
denounced the speech of Mr. O'Connor, and his general spirit and
conduct. Mr. John O'Connell and Mr. Smith O'Brien gave their support to
the motion. It was all but unanimously rejected.


MOTION FOR THE REPEAL OF JEWISH DISABILITIES.

Baron Rothschild, a distinguished member of the Jewish persuasion,
having been elected member for the city of London, the question of the
right of Jews to sit in parliament was raised and warmly discussed, in
the public press and in the country. Lord John Russell was also elected
for the city of London, and was bound, therefore, by his especial duty
to the citizens, to look particularly to the settlement of this matter.
He moved, on the 16th of December, "that the house should resolve itself
into a committee, to consider the removal of the civil and religious
disabilities affecting her majesty's Jewish subjects." The resolution
was carried by a very large majority, its principal opponent being Sir
Robert Inglis, one of the members for Oxford.


ADJOURNMENT OF THE HOUSE.--CLOSE OF THE PARLIAMENTARY LABOURS OF 1847.

On the 20th of December the house adjourned for the Christmas holidays,
and did not meet again until February. Thus closed the first session of
the new parliament, and the legislative business of the year.

Throughout the year the sanitary deficiencies of large cities, and their
moral peculiarities, were the subjects of desultory conversation in
parliament, and of extensive discussion in the newspapers and at public
meetings. To such a degree did the sanitary question excite public
interest, that her majesty was advised to recommend its consideration
to the new parliament; and during the educational debates, the moral and
intellectual condition of large towns, and especially of the metropolis,
was a theme of desponding comment. The reverend Dr. Guthrie, of
Edinburgh, has since then eloquently shown that the providential
dispensation which consigns so large a portion of our people to the
close confines of cities, like all the other arrangements of Providence,
however mysterious, are full of goodness and mercy:--"Somehow or other,
amid their crowding and confinement, the human mind finds its fullest,
freest expansion. Unlike the dwarfed and dusty plants which stand around
our suburban villas, languishing like exiles for the purer air and freer
sunshine that kiss their fellows far away in flowery field and green
woodland, on sunny banks and breezy hills, man reaches his highest
condition amid the social influences of the crowded city. His
intellect receives its brightest polish where gold and silver lose
theirs--tarnished by the searching smoke and foul vapours of city air.
The finest flowers of genius have grown in an atmosphere where those of
nature are prone to droop and difficult to bring to maturity. The mental
powers acquire their full robustness where the cheek loses its ruddy hue
and the limbs their elastic step, and pale thought sits on manly brows,
and the watchman, as he walks his rounds, sees the student's lamp
burning far into the silent night."


CHAPTER LX.

{VICTORIA. 1848}

     Warin India..... Colonial  Affairs..... Foreign
     Relations..... Revolutions throughout Continental
     Europe..... Distress and Crime in Ireland..... Disaffection
     of the Irish Roman Catholics, and attempted Revolt.....
     Enforcement of Law and Order in Ireland..... Chartist
     Disturbances  in England, and their suppression..... Home
     Incidents..... Transactions of Parliament.

{A.D. 1848}

The year 1848 was one of the most eventful which had ever occurred
in the history of Europe, or in the history of the world, since the
introduction of Christianity; and the relations of England to the great
transactions which passed like a whirlwind over the continent were such
as to enhance her dignity and her glory. It is difficult to write
the History of England, during a period so interesting to continental
Europe, without enlarging upon the events which took place upon other
fields of action, and by which England was in many respects so much
influenced. It will aid in confining the relations of this chapter
within proper bounds, to narrate first those transactions in which
England was exclusively interested, so far as other European powers were
concerned.


THE WAR IN INDIA.

The Punjaub had, in 1847, as already related, been the theatre of most
stirring incidents. The reader of this History can hardly fail to have
observed, that although the defeat of the Sikhs was so complete, the
subjugation of the spirit of that people was far from having been
effected. The dispersed Khalsa army cherished a fierce hostility to the
government of British India, and they were ready to enrol themselves
under the banner of any chief who would lead them, in numbers sufficient
to afford hope of success, against their recent conquerors. An
opportunity occurred in the person of Moolraj, the chief of Mooltan.
Mooltan is a large and fertile country, situated between the left bank
of the Indus and the right bank of the Sutlej, and terminates at one
end where these two rivers form a junction. It gives its name to the
capital, which was protected by defences unusually strong for an eastern
city.

When the British obtained the submission of the regent of the Sikh
monarch, Dhuleep Singh, Mooltan was governed by Moolraj. Moolraj owed
allegiance to the government at Lahore, to which the chieftainship of
Mooltan had been subjected by conquest. The durbar of Lahore purposed
the deposition of Moolraj, and negotiated with him for that purpose. He
affected to acquiesce, and, in consequence, Mr. Agnew, a political agent
of the Honourable East India Company, and Lieutenant Anderson, of the
Bombay Fusileers, were deputed to attend the new governor appointed by
the government of Lahore, to instal him in his office. This official
was named Sirdar Khan Singh, and was an object of extreme jealousy to
Moolraj. The party arrived at Mooltan, accompanied by their respective
suites and a small escort of cavalry. On the 17th of April, the
authority was surrendered in due form by Moolraj, and the object of
the British officers seemed to be accomplished. On the 18th they were
attacked and desperately wounded; it was at first supposed from a sudden
impulse on the part of the soldiery of Moolraj, but it was afterwards
known to be the result of treachery. The officers, accompanied by the
new governor, were carried to a small fort outside the town. A fire was
opened upon the place from Mooltan, but it was ineffectual. A few days
afterwards, however, the fort was attacked by the soldiers of Moolraj;
the Sikhs who garrisoned the place, and among whom were the escort,
treacherously opened the gates, and the assailants entered, foaming
with rage, and demanding vengeance upon the infidel officers. Lieutenant
Anderson was in a dying state; but Mr. Agnew, although so badly wounded,
defended himself with resolution to the last: both officers were
murdered. Moolraj declared that he had no knowledge of the transaction,
but no one believed his disclaimer. Intelligence of these barbarities
reached Lahore with the speed so peculiar to the East; and a force of
three thousand cavalry and some infantry was dispatched, under Sirdar
Shere Singh, against the refractory city. There happened to be upon the
Indus, at the head of a small force, a young and gallant officer who
had served with distinction upon the staff of Lord Gough, and who was
favourably known by his clever contributions to the India press on the
state of the Company's territory, civil and military: this officer was
Lieutenant Edwardes. He was engaged in settling a disturbed district of
country, and in collecting the land tax due to Moolraj, as Sikh governor
of Mooltan. At the same time, Colonel Van Courtlandt, a native of India,
and a distinguished officer in the service of the Company, occupied
Dherra Ismael Khan, also in the neighbourhood. Lieutenant Edwardes
crossed the river into the Deerajat, whence he wrote to the Khan of
Bhawulpore, requesting him to make such a movement of troops as would
prevent Moolraj from falling upon either of their forces. The khan's
territories were so situated as to enable him to effect a military
disposition to accomplish this object. The khan made the required
demonstration. When Edwardes crossed the Indus, he left a detachment of
three hundred horse to protect the collection at Serat, where, on the
18th of May, they were attacked by a body of cavalry exceeding their
own in number, sent against them from Mooltan, with ten light field-guns
(zumbooruks). The British force so manoeuvred as to attain a good
position, although under the fire of the zumbooruks, and then charged
brilliantly, dispersing the Mooltanese, and capturing their guns.

Colonel Courtlandt was as prompt as Edwardes in the measures taken by
him. He left the port of Dherra Ismael Khan, and proceeded by the base
of the hills southward. On his route he was joined by a Beloochee chief,
with one hundred of his wild followers. Courtlandt detached these, with
a portion of his own troops, against the fortress of Sunghur, westward
of the Indus. The commander of the fort refused the summons of
surrender, and for six hours maintained a gallant resistance; he then
brought off the garrison by a skilful manoeuvre, reaching Mooltan in
safety.

Lieutenant Edwardes and Colonel Courtlandt effected a Junction of their
small forces, and on the 20th of May were attacked by a division of
the Mooltan army. The united forces of Courtlandt and Edwardes were
so disposed that not more than one thousand five hundred men could
be brought into action, while the enemy numbered three thousand. The
artillery force of each was about equal. Edwardes was, however, joined
by a body of irregular cavalry, and a party of Beloochees, which brought
up the British force more nearly to an equality of numbers. The Sikhs in
British pay happily showed no disposition to fraternise with the Mooltan
army, although the calculations of Moolraj were based upon such an
expectation.

The enemy suffered a signal defeat and great slaughter. The Beloochees
behaved remarkably well. The skill of the British officers turned the
balance in favour of the native army under their command.

After this engagement, Edwardes, acting upon the authority which he
possessed as a civil officer of the company, demanded a reinforcement
from the Khan of Bhawulpore, and in the meantime recruited his force by
Sikhs, Beloochees, Affghans, and men from the hills of various tribes.
The faculty of organisation, the ceaseless activity, and the courage of
this young officer were surprising. Colonel Courtlandt was also equal to
the part assigned him; but, although senior to his colleague in military
rank, the civil functions of the latter gave him an especial, and, in
some respects, superior authority. The Khan of Bhawulpore responded to
the demands of assistance, and a plan was laid for a junction of the
troops. In pursuance of this, Edwardes and Courtlandt crossed the Indus
on the 10th and 11th of June. Moolraj was informed by his spies of every
movement, and the intelligence was conveyed to him with astonishing
rapidity. He accordingly marched a large force to intercept either army,
and beat both in detail. On the 14th he crossed the Chenab, leaving a
considerable force on the other bank. This detachment marched to Khan
Ghur, but on the following day crossed the river, being surprised at
that place by the advance of Edwardes's irregulars. The Mooltanese had
barely time to cross the Chenab, when the scouts of Edwardes galloped
into Khan Ghur. The Sikhs, instead of giving battle at that place, and
practically attempting the scheme proposed by Moolraj, encamped on the
opposite side of the river, in observation of the British officer and
his little army. This delay and timidity was fatal; for Edwardes
was soon joined by the infantry and a portion of the artillery of
Courtlandt, whose cavalry were scouring the country. The situation of
affairs became now interesting and important, for the Bhawulpore forces
had arrived on the enemy's side of the Chenab, within twelve miles.
Edwardes made a retrograde movement, so as to place himself opposite the
Bhawulpore encampment. The enemy advanced to within four miles of
that position. In the course of the night, the raw levies of Edwardes
contrived to cross the river in a very irregular manner, and within
dangerous proximity to the enemy's patrols, but were unmolested. On the
18th, early in the morning, the lieutenant crossed with the remainder
of his little army, except the horses and artillery, which remained
with Courtlandt on the opposite side, for a more slow and safe transport
across the river. Scarcely had the lieutenant gained the opposite bank
than he was attacked by the Sikh army, which had been moving up from
Bugurrarah while he was gaining the passage. This was a terrible
engagement. The sun had hardly risen upon river, and swamp, and
undulating plains, when the Mooltanee forces fell upon the motley crowd
of the British levies, and in such superior numbers that victory seemed
certain. For nine hours the English lieutenant resisted the onslaught,
and by his valour, activity, presence of mind, and moral influence, kept
his undisciplined forces in firm front to the foe. At last Courtlandt's
guns were brought over, and made the contest somewhat equal; later
in the day, two regular regiments belonging to the colonel's division
arrived, with six guns, and the enemy panic-struck fled, leaving a
large, proportion of their troops upon the field, slain, wounded, and
prisoners, with six guns, and their entire baggage and munitions of
war. The conduct of Edwardes throughout the day was splendid, and laid a
deeper foundation for his military reputation.

Moolraj retreated to Mooltan, followed by the British, and the Khan of
Bhawulpore, who had rendered hitherto but little assistance, and whose
movements led to the suspicion that he had more sympathy with Moolraj
than he dared to avow.

On the 28th of June, a Sikh brigade under the command of
Sheik-Emaum-ood-deen, which had been dispatched by the government of
Lahore, arrived to reinforce the English. The whole army appeared before
Mooltan, consisting of eighteen thousand men, comprising the levies of
Edwardes, the division of Courtlandt, that of the Khan of Bhawulpore,
and the newly arrived brigade of the sheik.

Moolraj collected his army between the city and the invaders, and
intrenched himself in a strong position, near the village of Sadoosan.
Edwardes attacked the camp with one portion of his force, storming the
breastwork, and with another taking the intrenchments in flank. The
discomfited enemy was driven in disorder within the city. The loss of
the allies was about twenty killed and less than one hundred wounded:
the enemy suffered severely. The difficulties of Edwardes increased with
his victories, for it was impossible for him to take Mooltan by a
_coup de main_, and he had no siege _matériel_. To remain inactive was
dangerous, for little reliance could be placed on the sheik, still less
on the khan, and even the regular regiments of Courtlandt were not
very trustworthy: he had mainly to rely upon his brave but undisciplined
Affghan and Beloochee levies. With such an army, so collected, and
without siege train, or heavy artillery of any kind, the conquest of
Mooltan was an impossibility, and yet affairs demanded speedy and
decided action. He accordingly sent to Sir Frederick Currie, the British
resident at Lahore, acquainting him with the delicacy of his situation,
and urging the dispatch of siege guns, and such other material of war
as was requisite. Communication was made to Lieutenant Edwardes by the
British resident at Lahore, that troops, material, and a general
officer of experience to take the command, would be sent as speedily
as possible, and meanwhile Edwardes was to watch the movements of the
enenry. This he effectually did; Moolraj could execute nothing beyond
the walls of Mooltan, for the eyes of the vigilant English lieutenant
were constantly upon his movements.

On the 18th of August General Whish arrived from Lahore with two
regiments of native infantry, a regiment of irregular horse, a troop of
horse artillery, and the 10th regiment of her majesty's foot. The next
day a column arrived from Ferozepore, consisting of three regiments of
native infantry, two regiments of native cavalry, one regular and
one irregular, a battering train, a troop of horse artillery, and her
majesty's 32nd regiment of the line. The forces before Mooltan then
amounted to six thousand Europeans, and more than twenty-two thousand
native troops, including the levies of Edwardes, and the khan's forces.

Scarcely had the army under General Whish assembled before Mooltan,
when other events still more formidable than the defection of Moolraj
occurred elsewhere.


MUTINY OF SIKH TROOPS IN THE PUNJAUB. AND REVOLT OF CHUTTUR SINGH.

Sirdar Chuttur Singh (father of Rajah Shere Singh) was governor of the
Hazareh country, under allegiance to the Maharajah Dhuleep Singh, of
Lahore. That chief took advantage of the revolt at Mooltan, and opened
correspondence with other chiefs for the purpose of tampering with the
Sikh soldiers in garrison in their different provinces. The government
of Lahore was guilty of complicity in these movements, although
affecting to be incensed against the refractory chiefs and provinces.
A knowledge of this circumstance soon spread among the Khalsa* soldiery
all over the Punjaub, and disposed them to follow any leader who had the
boldness to hoist the standard of rebellion.

     * "Khalsa," or church. This name was assumed to express the
     idea that the army was composed only of the faithful; the
     Sikh religion being a sort of eclectic religion, chosen from
     Mohammedanism, Brahminism, and other oriental systems.

Early in September the whole Hazareh country was in ostensible
insurrection, and an attack was made upon Attock. Happily Major Lawrence
was then, in the phraseology of the Indian political service, the
assistant at Peshawur. He sent Lieutenant Nicholson, at the head of a
detachment of cavalry and infantry, to take possession of: the fort. By
a forced marched this was effected before the arrival of the rebellious
sirdar's troops. Cabbot Abbot, the political agent in the Hazareh,
joined Lieutenant Nicholson, and their position was very precarious.
Major Lawrence, whose comprehensive mind was prepared for every
emergency, had troops moved to their assistance from Peshawur and
Jullundur. The revolt, however, spread in every direction. Peshawur was
begirt, with disciplined and fanatical enemies, and at last, early in
November, Major Lawrence and family had to fly for their lives from that
place, the troops in the garrison having mutinied on the approach of
Chuttur Singh and his army. Major and Mrs. Lawrence, with Lieutenant
Bowie, found refuge at Kohat, under the protection of Mahomed Khan.
Mahomed, either through fear or treachery, or both, gave them up as
prisoners to Chuttur Singh. The sirdar treated them with kindness, and
frequently conversed with them on the prospects of restoring the Sikh
ascendancy in the Punjaub; nor were the dissuasions of Major Lawrence of
any effect, for Chuttur believed in the Khâlsa confederacy.

On the 18th of December, when Shere Singh was at the head of a numerous
force, Major Lawrence was brought to his camp with the object of using
him for negotiations with the governor-general. It is necessary, in
order to preserve the collateral relation of events, to return to the
army of Whish before the besieged city.


SIEGE AND CAPTURE OF MOOLTAN.

General Whish pressed his operations against Mooltan with skill and
energy. He was ably aided by Edwardes, Courtlandt, Brigadier-general
Markham, and other officers. During the first ten days of September
skirmishes were frequent, and some of these were sharp and spirited. On
the 12th Whish determined to attack certain posts, the capture of which
was essential to the execution of his plans. The enenry had established
an extensive and formidable outpost in a village and garden near the
walls. To capture this a body of the besiegers, numbering two thousand
five hundred, were told off. They began the attack at break of day,
under the command of Brigadier-general Harvey. The contest was very
severe, but ended in the accomplishment of General Whish's design. The
slaughter of the Mooltanese was signal, and the heroism of the European
regiments extraordinary. The loss on the part of the British was heavy.
Major Montazambert, of the 10th foot, Colonel Pattoun, of the 32nd,
Quartermaster Taylor, also of that regiment, were the officers of the
royal regiments which fell. Lieutenant Cubit and Ensign Lloyd, of the
Company's service, also fell. The latter officer was treacherously
cut down while parleying with the enemy. The 10th regiment fought
desperately, making havoc of the Mooltanese with the bayonet.

The next day the besieged made a sortie against the camp of Lieutenant
Edwardes, but were beaten back, the pursuit issuing in the capture of
another important outpost. The defence had arrived at its crisis, but
Sikh treachery averted from the city the impending blow. On the morn-,
ing of the 14th, Shere Singh, with the whole of the Lahore troops,
five thousand in number, went over to the enemy. This event, at
once lessening the army of the besiegers, and increasing that of the
besieged, made their relative numbers so disproportionate, that the
siege was raised, the army withdrawing to a position a few miles
distant, where they intrenched. Soon after the British took up this
position, Shere Singh left Mooltan and marched along the banks of the
Chenab, forming a junction with Chuttur Singh, which placed the former
at the head of thirty thousand men. It became necessary for another
British army to encounter this enemy, while Whish and his troops could
do nothing against Mooltan until strongly reinforced. On the 21st
of December, a strong division of the Bombay army arrived at General
Whish's camp, and thus strengthened, the general resolved upon active
operations. His army now numbered about seventeen thousand Sikhs,
Beloochees, Affghans, and other contingents, about fifteen thousand
more Queen's and Company's troops, and one hundred and fifty pieces
of cannon. On the 27th General Whish resolved upon a grand attack, and
moved his army forward in four columns. The enemy falling back from
their outposts, the British took a position in the suburbs within
five hundred yards of the walls. That day and night batteries were
constructed on all appropriate points, and early on the 28th a terrible
bombardment began. By the 29th, the works were carried forward to within
eighty yards of the place, breaches began to be effected, the granary
was fired, and the batteries and buildings of the enemy suffered much
under the heavy cannonade of the besiegers. On the 30th a shell blew up
the principal magazine of the city. The shock was felt for two miles,
and the camp of the besiegers literally rocked above the convulsive
throes of the earth. The magazine contained sixteen thousand pounds
of powder. The explosion was instant; with one fierce crash and a
long-continued roar, the smoke and flame gushed upwards--one of the most
grandly terrible sights upon which human eye could look. Eight hundred
men perished, their charred limbs and whole carcasses were cast far
beyond. The houses of the chief persons, the public buildings and
temples, were shaken down by the vibrations; yet the walls of the fort
endured, and the bulk of the city was intact. A fire was communicated,
which raged through several streets, but was extinguished. It was
supposed that this event would lead to the surrender of the place, but
next day Moolraj sent word to General Whish that he had still powder
enough for a twelvemonth's siege, and that he would hold out while one
stone remained upon another. This was supposed to be mere bravado, and a
summon was sent to surrender. Moolraj, with perfect _sang froid_, rammed
the letter down one of the longest guns, and fired it at the British.
During the following night a distinct breach was effected in the Delhi
gate of the city, and the next day another at the Bohan gate. The fire
of the besiegers was plied hotly for the two following days and nights,
the city blazing like a hell, amidst the crash of falling buildings, and
the outcry of wounded women and children. On the 81st the Sikhs made
a sortie from the south-west gate against the camp of Edwardes. That
officer, ever vigilant, and ably seconded by the engineer officer,
Lieutenant Lake, repulsed the sortie, inflicting heavy loss. The
cannonade continued for fifty-six hours longer, and on the 2nd of
January the assault was made. The Bengal and Bombay divisions were
formed into separate columns, and precipitated upon the two breaches.
These columns moved forward with great daring and under a heavy fire.
The Bengal column found the breach impracticable, with an open drop in
front, and strong defences in the rear. While the Bengal Sepoys were
obstructed by obstacles which they could not surmount, the Bombay column
gained an entrance. The sergeant-major of the Bombay Fusileers boldly
planted the British flag above the breach. The Bengal column turned
and followed their more fortunate comrades of the other presidency. The
enemy resisted at every step, receding only before superior force,
and it was not until the sun went down over the blackened ruins and
blood-stained streets of Mooltan that the city was completely in the
hands of the conquerors. The troops of Moolraj retreated to the citadel,
which was a place of surpassing strength, and could only be taken by
regular approaches. Parallels were opened, and a fierce cannonade was
directed against it on the 4th; but it was not until the 18th that
any decided impression was made. By that date the intrenchments were
carried up to the very walls, but such was their extraordinary strength
that they were proof against artillery--at all events, any artillery of
the calibre possessed by the besiegers. Whish resolved to effect their
destruction by mines. On the 18th three mines were exploded, and the
counterscarp was blown into the ditch. A shaft was then sunk under the
trench, and a gallery cut towards the wall. At the same time a battery
was placed on a level higher than the citadel itself; another carrying
eighteen and twenty-four pounders was placed close up to the wall.
From this battery the most extraordinary cannonade and bombardment was
conducted. Eight-inch howitzers discharged live shells into the wall,
which buried themselves in the mud and brickwork of which it was built,
and, exploding, tore away large portions. On the 19th the sap reached
the crest of the glacis, and on the 21st the engineer officer in charge
announced that there were two practicable breaches. General Whish gave
prompt orders for the storm on the following morning. Moolraj had been
seriously alarmed during the progress of the works for the few days
previous, and repeatedly offered to surrender if his life would
be spared. The answer returned informed him that no terms but an
unconditional surrender would be conceded. On the 22nd, the British
columns were forming for the assault, when the garrison hauled down its
flag, and Moolraj surrendered at discretion.

The scenes which followed were at once picturesque and painful. The
discomfited troops marched forth as prisoners of war. First came a few
hundreds of the most miserable, dispirited looking men, ill clothed,
and wan with fatigue. These were fanatics who had under a vow devoted
themselves to especial peril and labour in the defence, and as is so
frequently the case with men under the influence of fanaticism, defeat
brings reaction in the form of despair. A column of about three thousand
five hundred soldiery, stern looking men, next came. With such troops
it was no wonder that Moolraj made so glorious a defence. This splendid
body of men laid down their arms with reluctance, and looked back upon
the breaches as if they fain would return and die there, with their arms
in their hands. The body-guard of Moolraj followed, a splendid body of
soldiers, whose equipment in arms and uniform was superb. The chiefs,
friends, and family of the governor next came. They were deeply
dejected, and uttered words of expressive anguish and shame. Moolraj
himself was the last man of the Khalsa host who left the citadel. He
was gorgeously appareled in silks, and decorations expressive of
Khalsa religious or military associations. He wore jewels, carried arms
superbly ornamented and of superior make, and rode a beautiful Arab
charger, covered with a scarlet saddle-cloth, with gilt or golden
trappings. His personal appearance was impressive, his countenance manly
and well formed, with quick, fiery, expressive eyes. Above the middle
height, his form was strong, muscular, and yet elegant. His bearing
was manly and gallant; there was no assumed or insolent defiance, no
fanatical contempt expressed by it, nor did he allow dejection to betray
itself. He and his followers became prisoners of war, and were placed
at the disposal of the governor-general. It was alleged that the
British army was guilty of plunder, and that officers of engineers were
discovered appropriating to themselves prizes, which belonged either to
the custody of the prize agents, or were sacred as private property. It
would appear that these allegations were circulated by certain agents of
persons in England having interests adverse to the Honourable East India
Company, and were utterly unfounded. Lord Ellenborough, more than eight
years afterwards, confuted the calumny.

Mooltan, and the territory of which it was the capital, was now
completely subjugated, and our ally, the khan, returned to his own
province a wiser if not a better man, his further services being
confined to the maintenance of peace in his own territory, and to the
exercise of a certain degree of vigilance in reference to surrounding
provinces. The fall of Mooltan was received over all British India and
the neighbouring independent states as one of the grandest events in
Indian history, and filled the petty chieftains with awe, while it
excited exultation in the presidencies. Far different were the feelings
created in the minds of the Sikh soldiery and people; they were
exasperated, and determined to hazard all upon a single throw. To avenge
past disasters, and expel the British from the country of the five
rivers became the passionate purpose and ambition of chieftain and
soldier, and everywhere desultory bands made war, as they pressed onward
to join the great chiefs, Shere Singh and Chuttur Singh who were now at
the head of a powerful army.


CAMPAIGN IN THE PUNJAUB UNDER LORD GOUGH.

It has been already related that Shere Singh quitted Mooltan with a
strong division of Khalsa troops, on the 9th of October, and formed a
junction with Chuttur Singh.

The latter returned to the territory of Hazareh, leaving the bulk of
his forces under the command of Shere Singh, who was gradually joined by
other chiefs and sirdars, whose followers augmented his army,--that army
consisted of men inured to combat, the flower of the Sikh nation. Lord
Gough, the commander-in-chief of the army in India, was ordered to
assemble an army at Ferozepore, and act against Shere Singh, and, in
fact, reconquer the Punjaub. Bombay and other troops were ordered to
join the army collecting at Ferozopore, and the victorious troops
of Whish, Courtlandt, and Edwardes were ordered to follow and form a
junction with the grand army. These troops did not join as soon as Lord
Gough expected, and the Bombay division, under the Hon. Major-general
Dundas, was so dilatory as to evoke from the good-natured
general-in-chief a most stinging rebuke. The major-general was urged
by despatches to advance with all possible celerity, but he expressed
himself as not perceiving the necessity of such speed. "Tell him," said
the gallant commander, "to stay with the native troops if he likes, but
to send on the Europeans!"

Before, however, the army which had acted before Mooltan could render
any assistance to Lord Gough, months before that city had fallen, events
gathered within the Punjaub in gloomy and rapid association. It was on
the 21st of November before General Gough assumed the active command of
the army at Seharun, a central position. The river Chenab is the central
one of the five rivers which give name to the district, and the theatre
of conflict was midway between the Chenab and its confluence with the
Indus. On the left bank of the former, about a mile and a half from the
river, the town of Rumnugger was situated: there Shere Singh had taken
up his quarters. Opposite that town the river bends, and there was an
island in mid-channel; this island was about two acres in area. The main
force of Shere Singh was posted on the right bank of the river, but a
strong brigade of four thousand men occupied the island, and erected
batteries. These batteries commanded the only available ford, or
"nullah," as it is called in the vocabulary of the country. The opposite
town of Rumnugger was favourably situated for defence; it was flanked
by a grove, and by the bend in the river. This position Shere Singh had
skilfully fortified. On the 22nd, at two o'clock in the morning, Lord
Gough approached the enemy. While the right bank and the island were
occupied by the chief forces of the sirdar, he had a strong body also
posted on the left bank, and it became the first object of Lord Gough
to dislodge them. Between the island and the right bank the passage
was effected by boats, so that the enemy was able to preserve his
communications with tolerable certainty and ease. The nullah or ford
was not difficult, although the descent to it from the left bank of the
river was steep. It was directly commanded by the guns on the island,
and was exposed to a raking cross-fire on either side from batteries
placed on the right bank. The 8th light cavalry (Company's service)
advanced along the left bank, skirmishing, supported by her majesty's
3rd Light Dragoons. The horse artillery pushed into the deep sand on the
margin of the river, and commanded the batteries at Rumnugger, but were
obliged to retire before their superior metal, leaving behind one gun
and two ammunition waggons embedded in the sand. The enemy took skilful
and immediate advantage of this reverse, and pushed over a powerful
cavalry division. Orders were given to charge them, and the 14th
(Queen's) Light Dragoons, and the 3rd light horse of the Company's army,
in spite of overwhelming numbers and of imperfect supports, cut through
the enemy and dashed after them into the nullah. The passage was
familiar to the latter, who made good their retreat to the island; the
latter were of course ignorant of the ground, and were impeded in their
pursuit by that circumstance, had none other obstructed them. As soon as
the Sikh cavalry cleared the ford, the batteries of the island and the
flanking batteries on the right bank opened with deadly effect. How any
British officer could have been so imprudent as to give the order to
charge into the nullah is almost inconceivable; that the error was not
evident, while the brave men were being mowed down by an artillery fire,
which they could do nothing to silence, is still more marvellous; such,
however, was the case. Colonel Havelock dashed into the ford at the head
of the 14th Light Dragoons, but was never seen again. A native trooper
supposed he saw him in the nullah soon after he entered it, unhorsed,
and several Sikh soldiers "hacking his person." After much useless
slaughter was thus incurred by Havelock's gallant brigade, Major-general
Cureton rode up with an order from Lord Gough for the troops to retire.
He had scarcely given the order when he fell dead from two shots, by
which he was instantaneously struck. The troops retired with a loss, in
every corps engaged, of officers and men. Lord Gough considered the
end attained in driving the enemy from the left bank was worth the
sacrifice. The death of General Cureton was severely felt by the army,
and was in some degree irreparable. He had risen from the ranks by his
superior soldiership, and was deemed one of the best, perhaps the best,
officer for outpost duty then in India.

On the 30th of November Lieutenant-general Thackwell was ordered to
cross the Chenab above Rumnugger, where an indifferent ford had been
discovered, and where Captain Nicholson had provided boats. Thackwell
was to take the Sikhs in the flank and rear, while Lord Gough observed
them from his old position, ready to take advantage of any favourable
opportunity for attack which the manouvre of General Thackwell might
create. That gallant and skilful officer performed well the part
assigned to him. He gained the right bank of the river; but Shere Singh
was also a skilful commander, and did not allow Thackwell even to
menace his rear or flank, for he detached a strong force to attack the
intruder, as soon as he saw that the river had been forded. It was the
3rd of December before Thackwell secured the passage, and on the fourth
he began his march along the right bank towards the lines at Rumnugger.
He soon discovered that a strong body of Sikhs were marching in a
north-west direction. They threatened his flank with cavalry, and
cannonaded him severely. Thackwell's orders did not allow of his taking
any measure for attack, and the enemy drew off after a sharp and heavy
cannonade. As soon as this officer's artillery was allowed to open upon
them, they marched towards the Jhelum. Perhaps the enemy were decided
in abandoning their strong positions, not only from fear of their left
flank being turned by General Thackwell, but also by the energetic
proceedings of Lord Gough, after the force detached to observe Thackwell
had departed. Lord Gough opened a heavy cannonade upon the island, and
upon the batteries on the right bank of the Chenab. On the morning of
the 3rd a brigade of infantry, under Brigadier Godby, passed by a ford
not far from Rumnugger, his passage being covered by the approach of
General Thackwell, who had by that time been advancing from the passage
at Wuzerabad. Shortly after, the 9th Lancers and 14th Light Dragoons,
under General Gilbert, were ordered to cross the river, and harass as
much as possible the retreating enemy. The British generals seem to have
believed that the Khalsa army would abandon their chiefs and disperse
to their homes, and this impression influenced their proceedings; for
although Gilbert with his cavalry followed the enemy briskly, there
was not that celerity in the movements of the British which actual
circumstances demanded.

On the 28th of December Lord Gough, with his whole army, crossed the
river and encamped. The right bank was now clear of the enemy, Shere
Singh having followed the previous division of his army to the Jhelum,
where he ultimately took post in the formidable position of Russool,
with a force which was augmented to forty thousand men, and a powerful
artillery, estimated variously from sixty-two to ninety guns.

While these events were passing, Chuttur Singh, who, as before noticed,
had retired to his own province, pressed the fort of Attock, which had
been long and gallantly maintained by Major Herbert. When it fell the
major contrived to send tidings to Lord Gough, and to warn him that
Chuttur Singh had repaired with his army to the upper Jhelum, to form a
junction with the army of Shere Singh. Lord Gough determined at once
to follow the Sikh forces, and bring them to a decisive action. On the
morning of the 12th of January he marched from Loah Tibbah to Dingee.
The sirdar was represented by the British commander-in-chief in his
despatch as holding with his right the village of Lukhneewalla and
Futteh Shah-ke-Chuck, having the great body of his force at the village
of Lollianwalla, with his left at Eussool, on the Jhelum. This position
lay on the southern extremity of a low range of hills, intersected by
ravines, and difficult of access to assailants. The post was well chosen
by the sirdar, who showed a subtle generalship throughout the war. The
information furnished by Lord Gough's spies was not always faithful, and
his lordship, therefore, was not accurately in possession of the forces
of the sirdar, nor of the topographical peculiarities of his position.
The British commander directed his march upon the village of Bussool,
and there reconnoitred.

The advance to the ground chosen by the sirdar was impeded by a jungle,
to avoid which, and to distract the enemy's attention, Lord Gough took
a considerable _détour_ to the right. He succeeded in avoiding the
intricacies of the jungle, but not in distracting the attention of
Shere Singh. That general moved from his encampment, and took ground in
advance, a manouvre calculated to hide the strength of his position, and
to disconcert any previous arrangements of the British commander.

About noon on the 13th, Lord Gough was before the village of Bussool,
and finding a very strong picket of the enemy on a mound close to that
place, his lordship, after some fighting, dislodged it. Ascending the
mound, the general and his staff beheld the Khalsa army ranged along the
furrowed hills in all the majestic array of war. The British officers
gazed with admiration and professional ardour upon the long lines of
compact infantry and the well-marshalled cavalry, mustered in their
relative proportions and positions with scientific exactness. The
sirdar's batteries were chiefly masked by jungle. The scene was striking
in its aspect, from the magnitude of the events associated with it, and
the excitement it stirred up within the hearts of the brave. Alas, how
many noble hearts were necessarily to bleed before victory crowned the
arms of England, and that fine Khalsa army succumbed to the destiny of
England's Asiatic foes!

Lord Gough found that he could not turn the flanks of the sirdar's
army, they were so protected by jungle, unless he detached a portion of
his army to a considerable distance, which he deemed unsafe. The day
was too far advanced to begin any operations. The engineer officers were
ordered to examine the country in front, and the quartermaster-general
was about to take up ground for the encampment, when the enemy advanced
some horse artillery, and opened a fire upon the skirmishers in front
of Bussool. Lord Gough ordered his heavy guns to open upon the enemy's
artillery, and for this purpose they were advanced to an open space
in front of the village. Shere Singh did not act with his usual good
strategy, in exposing the positions of so many of his cannon, which
the jungle had concealed, and which might have remained hidden until
an attack upon his line would have afforded him opportunity to use them
with sudden and terrible advantage, as he afterwards was enabled to use
those on his right. As it was, he replied to the British cannonade with
such a powerful field-artillery as constrained Lord Gough to draw up
in order of battle, lest in the night the sirdar's guns should be moved
still more forward, and open on his camp. His lordship, keeping the
heavy guns on his centre, placed Sir Walter Gilbert's division on his
right, flanked by Brigadier Pope's brigade of cavalry, strengthened by
her majesty's 14th Light Dragoons, and three troops of horse artillery,
under Colonel Grant. This arrangement was necessitated by the large
force of cavalry observed upon the enemy's left. On the left of the
British line, Brigadier-general Campbell's division was formed, flanked
by Brigadier White's cavalry, and three troops of horse artillery under
Colonel Brind.

The demonstrations of the enemy were such that, late as was the hour,
and weary as the troops were with marching, Lord Gough determined to
attack at once. His lordship's critics, influenced by the events
which followed, have severely censured him for attacking under such
circumstances, more especially as the ground was unknown to his
lordship. It was true that sufficient time had not been obtained to
reconnoitre the enemy's positions, but it was not correct to allege
that Lord Gough was entirely unacquainted with the ground, as he had
previously known it, especially the country to the left of the enemy. It
was generally supposed by his lordship's censors that the attack was a
wanton waste of life, and arose from the brave, rash, and unreflecting
temperament of the general, and the irritation caused by the sudden and
severe artillery fire opened upon him. On the other hand, the Duke of
Wellington declared that he would, in Lord Gough's place, have acted as
he had done; and so full of confidence were the Sikhs in their numbers
and resolution, that had not the general given battle, he would have
been obliged to defend himself from a desperate night attack under
circumstances far less favourable. There can be no doubt, on the part of
any who know the noble old soldier, that he acted from his sense of duty
to his army and his country, and not from personal irritation.

The battle began, or, it may be said, was resumed, by a heavy cannonade
which lasted for more than an hour when Lord Gough ordered his left to
advance, making a flank movement. In executing this manouvre, the troops
exposed their own flank to a galling fire from heavy guns, the positions
of which had remained covered by jungle, and the Sikh batteries were so
placed as to pour a most destructive cross-fire upon the British. When
the 3rd and 4th brigades reached the enemy's guns, they were received by
a cannonade so overwhelming that they were obliged to retire. As soon
as it was known that these two brigades were engaged, the 5th, under
Brigadier Mountain, was ordered to storm the centre. They were received
with round-shot the moment they moved; with grape and canister as they
advanced through the jungle; and, finally, with musketry within close
and deadly range. Many of the Sikh soldiers, at the cost of their own
life, advanced and shot down the British officers. Brigadier Mountain
had distinguished himself in China, and had the entire confidence of
Lord Gough, under whom he had served there. Under his able guidance, the
British stormed the batteries and spiked the guns, under a flank fire
from other guns which they also spiked, while the enemy, without
giving way, poured upon them musket balls thick as hail. Detachments of
musketeers took them on each flank, and some getting to their rear
among the jungle, fired upon them with deadly aim. The British were
thus compelled to cut their way back to their own lines through hosts
of encircling foes. While this was going on upon the centre, Sir Walter
Gilbert advanced against the enemy's left. That general occupied the
extreme right of his division, and Brigadier Godby the extreme left.
They marched through a dense jungle almost unmolested, and then were
confronted by infantry. Had the British at once charged with the
bayonet, the result might for them have been less sanguinary; they,
however, opened fire, and the Sikhs, more numerous, returned the fire
and outflanked them. Two companies of the 2nd (or Queen's) British
regiment charged with the bayonet, but were surrounded. These gallant
and skilful soldiers immediately faced about, and after some file-firing
charged, rear-rank in front. At this critical moment, Deane's battery
arrived, and drove back the enemy by the precision of their fire.
Several guns were here captured by the British. The heroism and losses
of the 2nd regiment were very great. While the infantry had thus been
engaged in close and deadly battle, the cavalry also were occupied both
on the left and right. On the former flank of the British, Brigadier
White's brigade charged the enemy, covering the retreat of the infantry.
On the extreme right Brigadier Pope's brigade, strengthened, as has been
already shown, by the temporary attachment of the 14th Light Dragoons of
the Queen's army, was ordered to charge a body of the enemy's cavalry,
the numbers of which were much superior. Instead of obeying the orders
given, they wheeled right about, and galloped off the field, breaking
through the artillery, upsetting artillerymen, drivers, and waggons in
their course, until they reached the field hospital. According to some
narrations of this transaction, the men galloped away under a mistake of
orders; other accounts represent this to have been impossible, because
their own officers and officers of the artillery endeavoured to stop
and rally them without success, except so far as a portion of the 9th
Lancers was concerned. The enemy was not slow to take advantage of
this extraordinary flight; they pursued--dashed in among the horse
artillery--cut down seventy-five gunners, and took six guns. The arrival
of artillery reserves, the rallying of a portion of the 9th Lancers, and
the steadiness of the infantry, prevented the destruction of the whole
right wing. The fresh artillery which came up opened upon the Sikh
cavalry with grape and canister, with such precision and fury that they
retreated. Two of the captured guns were recovered in the retreat. The
Sikhs gradually withdrew, leaving the field of battle in possession of
the British, who, on this account, claimed the victory. The enemy, in
the night, carried away all the guns which the British had spiked during
the action, the four pieces of horse artillery which they took on the
British right, and five stand of colours, and on these grounds also
claimed the victory; and a salute of twenty-one guns in honour of the
triumph was, as the English thought, most impudently fired. This was
also done at Attock, in the capital of Chuttur Singh, and wherever the
Sikh troops held a position. The Sikhs also claimed the victory for the
same reason as the English did--being left in possession of the field.
It was, in truth, a drawn battle. The Sikhs having began the engagement,
and the English having retained the ground on which they fought, while
the former retired their line, the battle may more correctly be said to
have been won by the British; but the advantages gained were altogether
on the part of the Sikhs, who continued to occupy for a month positions
from which the British did not attempt to dislodge them. During that
time Lord Gough waited for reinforcements, and felt the tardy arrival of
some of the troops whose presence had been detained before Mooltan, as
has already been shown.

The loss sustained by the Sikhs it is impossible to calculate; according
to themselves it was much less than that of the English; and this is
credible when the strength of their position is considered, and the
losses to which the unaccountable flight of Pope's brigade exposed the
British light. The English loss, according to the official returns,
was three thousand men in killed and wounded, nearly one-third of whom
belonged to the former class; this, however, did not comprehend all
the slain, for many were so horribly wounded by the close discharge of
artillery that they died in a few days. The proportion of the wounded
who were hit mortally was beyond that which usually occurs in battle.
There were also many desertions of Sepoy soldiers to Shere Singh, but
more especially of Sikh soldiery under Lord Gough's command.

The flight of the large body of cavalry under Brigadier Pope was the
subject of much investigation and of shame. The brigadier was too old
for the duties imposed upon him; he had no experience in war, and was
placed in the command from seniority. This gave occasion, in England,
to denounce the substitution of seniority for fitness, so common in the
British army. Unhappily, the officer himself who was so much concerned
in the responsibility of the event, and who had been much respected
by his brother officers and his commander, was placed beyond all human
accountability, for he fell in front of his fugitive soldiers. Colonel
King, of the 14th Light Dragoons, who succeeded Colonel Havelock, who
fell at Rumnugger, was also much censured. His defence was, that he
did his utmost to rally his men in vain; that they were generally
light small men, mounted upon light small horses; whereas the cavalry
immediately opposed to them were not only much more numerous, but
cuirassiers--powerful, heavy men, with long and superior swords, and
admirably mounted. The colonel complained of the bad manufacture of the
English weapons, which bent or broke against the swords and cuirasses of
the Sikh cavalry, When Sir Charles Napier arrived to command the forces
in India late in the spring, he inspected the 14th, and addressed them,
referring to the allegations of their colonel, and telling them that
they were fine, stalwart, broad-chested fellows, that would follow
anywhere that they were led. Colonel King took this so much to heart,
that he retired from the field of inspection and shot himself. Sir
William Napier (brother to Sir Charles) afterwards denied in the London
newspapers that his brother intended to cast any reflection upon Colonel
King. It was, however, generally believed in the army, that Sir Charles
levelled a censure at the unfortunate officer, whose sensitive honour
could not endure such a reflection from so high an authority. His
fate excited deep commisseration, and the address of Sir Charles was
disapproved of indignantly by the whole army.

The generalship of Lord Gough became the subject of anonymous criticism
in India, and open attack in England; but the brave and skilful general
proved at the subsequent battle of Goojerat that he knew how to gain
victory at as little cost of blood as it was possible for military
knowledge to ensure. The late drawn battle--if such it may be
called--was designated the battle of Chillianwallah, after a village in
the immediate neighbourhood of which the British had encamped. The Sikhs
know it as the battle of Russool, the more appropriate name to give it,
as it was in its vicinity the chief strength of the Sikh position was
found.

Leaving the movements of the two armies confronting one another to
the narrative of another chapter, it is now necessary to turn to other
scenes of interest.


CANADA.

This fine colony continued prosperous and powerful, yet the
dissatisfaction of previous years with the imperial administration
was not removed. On the 28th of February the first session of the new
parliament was opened by the governor-general, who delivered a speech
which was intended to be concilatory, but which did not accomplish its
purpose. An amendment was proposed to the address, which was carried
against the government by a majority of fifty-four to twenty. In this
amendment the legislature plainly declared its want of confidence in the
governor's advisers; the ministry therefore resigned.


THE WEST INDIES.

During this year the West India colonists were discontented, and
complained of distress, while at home they were regarded with suspicion
by the religious and antislavery public, as designing, if possible, to
restore slavery.

The immigration of hill Coolies from India into several of the colonies,
which was promoted by the West India legislative bodies at the public
expense, increased this jealousy towards the planters. The taxes to meet
the expenses incidental to the immigration were levied in such a manner
as to fall especially upon the emancipated negro, to compete with whose
labour the Coolie was imported. This irritated the classes in England
whose dispositions were unfavourable to the planter. The press, the
pulpit, and missionary meetings denounced the Coolie trade and traders,
and, in terms of eloquent indignation, represented the negro inhabitants
of the West Indies as still subjected to the plunder and persecution
of a tyrant race. The Coolie immigration was depicted as rivaling the
slave-trade in atrocity, and its failure was boldly predicted on every
religious platform. These predictions certainly were fulfilled--the
Coolie speculation was a failure. A writer of that date, well acquainted
with the facts of the case, thus noticed them:--"One of the most recent
efforts made to substitute free for slave labour in the West Indies, it
will be recollected, was the bringing of a number of hill Coolies
from India for this purpose. The experiment has miserably failed, as
acknowledged by the chancellor of the exchequer in his speech on
the introduction of the sugar duties bill, now in progress through
parliament. The Coolies were conveyed to Demerara from Madras in
ship-loads to supply the labour market in British Guiana, at the expense
of that colony; and, as our correspondent learned, at a rate which
even reached the Negro himself, against whom they came to compete.
Many agents were employed in their importation, and large bounties were
given; such temptations led parties to crowd the colony with numbers of
miserable persons, quite unable to perform any laborious employment. It
was the general opinion that, owing to physical inability, scarcely one
in a hundred of these Coolies was fit for manual labour; and whilst our
correspondent was at Demerara a law was issued by the governor granting
permission for labourers to enter Guiana from certain countries only,
omitting the East Indies. The wretchedness of these immigrant Coolies
was truly distressing; numbers of them might be seen wandering about,
and living in the open air on charity, in George Town, congregating
about the market-house and elsewhere, many of them covered with sores,
and all but naked. Hospitals were subsequently provided for them in
different places, in which they were maintained at the public expense;
and by this means they were removed from about the town and frontier of
the colony. Mr. Stocqueler, in his very useful 'Oriental Interpreter,'
refers to the Coolies in connection with the Bheels, a race of people
who inhabit the northern part of the chain of Ghauts, running inland
parallel with the coast of Malabar. On one side they are bordered by the
Coolies, and on another by the Goands of Goandwana. They are considered
to have been the aborigines of Central India, and, with the
Coolies, Goands, and Ramooses, are bold, daring, and predatory
marauders--occasionally mercenaries, but invariably plunderers.
There are, however, many shades of difference in the extent of the
depredations of these several people, in which the balance of enormity
is said to be considerably on the side of the Bheels. They are,
nevertheless, described as faithful when employed and trusted; and the
travellers who pay them their _choute_, or tribute, may leave untold
treasure in their hands, and may consider themselves as safe with
them as in the streets of London. Their word is sacred, their promise
unimpeachable.'"

There was another class of immigrants who were found more useful,
the Portuguese, from Madeira. They were highly prized by the Demerara
planters; but even among them the mortality was very considerable.


FOREIGN RELATIONS.

In the East the only hostile acts required from the British government,
during the year 1848, was the suppression of Chinese piracy. During
the year, also, the Rif pirates gave trouble on the shores of northern
Africa. Employment was also given to British cruisers in various other
parts of the world in the suppression of piracy and the protection of
British commerce.


THE UNITED STATES.

The measures of Sir Robert Peel's late government in the disputes which
arose between England and the United States, whatever their demerits,
had the effect of preserving peace between the two countries, which,
during the tumults of continental Europe, the disturbances in Ireland,
and the agitations in England during 1848, was of the utmost consequence
to Great Britain. The discovery of gold in California, although an
American event, exercised much influence upon the commerce and monetary
affairs of the British Isles, and tended still more to draw the bonds of
amity close between the two great British nations.


SPAIN: DIPLOMATIC DISAGREEMENT WITH THAT COUNTRY; DISMISSION OF THE
ENGLISH AMBASSADOR.

Spain, ever fruitful of internal discord, was not less so in 1848. The
history of the court was one of scandal, and of the government one of
weakness, fickleness, and incapacity. The year 1847 closed by a change
of ministry, when the infamous Narvaez was in the ascendant, and his
creatures were gathered around him in the guise of a cabinet. The
queen-mother, it was declared, had been married in December, 1833, to
her paramour, Munoz, within three months of the decease of the king her
husband, and this was kept secret for fifteen years from the Spanish
people, until, under the auspices of the new government of Narvaez, it
was at last brought to light, for purposes at once venal and revolting.
This disclosure incensed the Spanish people, and revived the hopes of
both the republican and Carlist parties. The corrupt practices of Senor
Salamanca also coming before the public, disgusted the nation with
its public men. As will be seen on another page, France effected a new
revolution in February. Louis Philipp was dethroned, and the republic
was once more proclaimed. From the immediate contiguity of the two
countries it was feared that the French republic would find some cause
of quarrel with the imprudent and despotic government of Spain. England,
alarmed lest she should be once more involved in a war with France for
the protection of the Iberian peninsula, looked with concern upon the
tyrannical and profligate conduct of the Spanish court and government;
and Lord Palmerston, therefore, addressed a note to Sir H. Bulwer,
the British representative at Madrid, requesting him to make such
representations to the government, and offer such advice as would tend
to consolidate the independence and preserve the peace of Spain. This
Sir H. Bulwer performed; but the Spanish minister, the Duc de Soto
Mayer, resented this interference as an insult to Spain, and the British
minister was dismissed from Madrid. In England Lord Palmerston was
denounced as a meddler, and a minister whose policy was provocative of
foreign discord. The course of policy, however, adopted by the noble
viscount was customary with all British ministers, did not exceed the
right which one friendly nation has to advise another, and was based
upon the actual and recognised relations of Spain and Great Britain. It
afforded, however, an opportunity to ignorant declaimers, in and out
of parliament, to oppose the astute yet direct and manly policy of the
great English foreign minister. The interruption of diplomatic relations
between the two countries continued throughout the year.


THE CONTINENTAL REVOLUTIONS.

Although not strictly forming a portion of the history of England,
it would be impossible to relate the events in which the interests of
England were involved, without some extended reference to the mighty
moral earthquakes of continental Europe. France was the centre of these
terrible upheavings of human passion and power. Her government, under
the base king Louis Philippe, whom the revolution of 1830 had placed
upon the throne, was the most corrupt which France had ever known.
Tyranny infinitely more oppressive than that which he was permitted to
wield had often cursed France, but never before were such efforts made
as by him to corrupt the whole people. The unprincipled conduct of every
department of the government directed by Guizot, the treacherous and
subservient tool of his bad master, utterly disgusted all honourable
men; and even those who were willing to sell themselves and their
country, despised and hated the purchasers. Even the correct manners of
Louis Philippe's court, and the strict domestic morality observed there,
at last increased the public indignation and contempt, for it left the
universal impression that he was a cold and heartless hypocrite. During
1847 a desire for electoral reform, which had existed for many years
among the more thoughtful politicians of France, became more thoroughly
developed among most classes of citizens, and agitations to accomplish
this object were set on foot. The tyrant king opposed this feeling and
these movements, at first by corrupt means, and, ultimately, by the
hands of his unscrupulous minister, he resorted to coercion. Public
meetings were suppressed, and the liberty of the press was invaded. The
insulted citizens of Paris rose in arms, barricades were erected, and
the king, as cowardly as he was corrupt, had not the manhood to stand
by his own measures, but fled, with craven spirit, to take refuge in the
country whose queen and people he had betrayed. Under the common English
name of Smith this proud prince found means of escaping from the country
he had deceived, pillaged, and oppressed, and which allowed him to
pass away without pursuit, and without malediction, because of its own
magnanimity and the contempt with which it regarded him. Louis Philippe
found a home in England, at first at Claremont, and then in Abingdon
House, Kensington, where he lived for some time in apparently tranquil
enjoyment, the delightful and salubrious vicinity affording to his
family means of retired and pleasurable recreation.

The expulsion of the nefarious old man, who had for eighteen years ruled
France on a system of false pretences, was followed by the appointment
of a provisional government, consisting of Dupont (de l'Eure),
Lamartine, Arago, Marie, Armand Marrast, Garnier Pages, Albert, Ledru
Rollin, Ferdinand Flocon, Louis Blanc, Cremieux. No sooner was the
provisional government appointed, than it was discovered that harmony
among its members was impossible. The republican party was divided into
two great sections--the old republicans and the "reds." The former, like
those of the United States of America, contended for self-government
and equal political rights, for civil and religious liberty. The latter
declared for what they called "a republic, democratic, and social," and
their aim was to establish socialism by subverting all rights, civil and
religious, fusing all interests in a communal equality, no longer being
subject to individual claims. The unknown of Paris were ignorant, and
many of them suffered much from low wages and irregular employment;
these madly grasped at a theory which promised to them a maintenance at
the public expense. The state ought, in their opinion, to provide them
with wages sufficient for their support, they being themselves the
judges of the requisite amount, and the state should find employment,
if it could, for those who were so requited, the amount of labour to
be rendered was also to be decided by the workers. The theory was
substantially that which prevailed among the English Chartists. The
whole subject of this division of feeling and opinion in the provisional
government and in the nation, with the practical results, was thus
clearly set forth by a writer of that day:--"In this conflict of opinion
upon the question of labour, or of communism, is the _resumé_ of all the
great events that have taken place in France since the declaration of
the republic on the 24th of February last. This key unlocks them all,
and the efforts of this principle to establish itself, and to overthrow
its opponents, explain events otherwise inexplicable, and show us in the
clearest possible manner what are and what are not the great opposing
forces that have since been at feud. All other forces in France have
been as nothing compared with these two. The friends of monarchy,
whether of the Orleans or the old Bourbon dynasty, and the friends of
Napoleon, have, it is true, endeavoured to make themselves heard; but
their voices have been mere whispers in comparison with the shouts
and hubbub of the communists and anti-communists--of the tricolor
republicans and the republicans of the _drapeau rouge_. Without this
clue to the character of the revolution, the remark of Milton that the
wars of the Saxon heptarchy were as unintelligible as those of kites in
a neighbouring wood, would apply to the proceedings of the Parisians.
Almost each day, after the 24th of February, brought tidings of change
in all the relations betwixt man and man. There was fighting one
day, embracing the next; every rotation of the hand brought to view
a wonderful and unexpected change of figures in the political
kaleidoscope. Day after day, in endless succession, there were mouthings
of tumid, florid, and often unintelligible speeches, and of still more
unintelligible and mysterious theories for the regeneration of mankind.
Every speech and newspaper article breathed only peace and goodwill
towards all men, yet almost every ordinance of the government was
directed towards the organisation of armed men. There were assemblings
of the people, reviews, marchings, and counter-marchings, hasty
summonings at all hours, the beating of the _rappel_, and the
sounding of the tocsin, in the dead of night and the early dawn. The
'Marseillaise Hymn' and the 'Mourir pour la Patrie,' were sung in
every street, court, and alley, and were heard on the pillow of every
recumbent citizen. Journalism became a power of tremendous magnitude and
extent. People read leading articles by torchlight, and shouted out to
the moon apostrophes to liberty, ay, 'liberty, equality, fraternity.'
These three talismanic words, too often devoid of meaning in the
apprehension of those who shouted them with a fervour sufficient to
split the ears of the groundlings. Liberty? every man doing what he
deemed best, seemed to be the interpretation of the mob. Equality?
every man trying to get above every other man, seemed its natural
consequences. Fraternity? every man knocking down every other man who
happened to be of a different way of thinking from himself, was the
manner in which the men of the _faubourgs_ seemed to construe it. Such
seemed to be the epitome of the French revolution; but it was not so.
There was order amid disorder; two principles were at work; and the
revolution--so frivolous in its details, so momentous in its results;
exhibiting so much talent and energy, so much vanity and folly, so much
honesty and treachery, such kind feelings and such malignant passions,
such planting of trees and cutting of throats, such recommendations
of order, such instances of disorder, so much wisdom producing so much
folly, so much goodness mingled with so much wickedness, so much
gravity combined with so much levity, such long speeches and such brief
epigrams--was quite explainable wherever the mind was able to grasp
it as a whole, and see the operation of the two great and all pervading
principles which we have mentioned."

The party of the communists in the provisional government comprised
three members--Ledru Rollin, Louis Blanc, and Albert. This number, being
small in proportion to the whole, offended the socialists; but Lamartine
and Arago possessed such influence with the three "reds," that they were
for a time induced to co-operate with the rest for the general good, and
in a system of rational government. To those two great men France was
deeply indebted; their appearance was at times sufficient to still a
tumult.

The three communist members of the government gradually became more
exacting, and at last the influence of the philosophical republicans and
statesmen, who were associated with them, failed to keep within bounds
the communist sympathies of these hot-headed and imprudent men. In an
evil hour, Lamartine and some of his colleagues, who, like him, had
just notions of state affairs, and correct views of political economy,
conceded to Ledru Roll in and his brothers of the _drapeau rouge_ a
certain organisation for the employment of labour. From that hour the
doom of the new republic was sealed--it was the beginning of the end.
Men of property and sagacity stood aloof. M. Goodcheaux resigned, and
many official persons of eminent knowledge and experience followed his
example. Meanwhile Paris was kept in continual apprehension by popular
demonstrations, and commercial failures shook the public credit. The
working population became more and more dissatisfied, and menaced public
order and the existence of all rational government.

The provisional government called a constituent assembly, and the
representatives of the people were to assemble in Paris on a certain day
in April, but the assemblage was afterwards deferred to the 4th of May.
Ledru Rollin addressed a circular to the prefects and other departmental
and commercial authorities, urging upon them the support of republican
candidates at the elections. This measure Ledru Rollin and some of his
colleagues justified on the ground that there were already parties
whose reactionary efforts might be successful in returning Orleanist,
Buonapartist, or ultramontane representatives, who might form a majority
in the assembly, or, at all events, a minority large enough to embarrass
the republic. By republican members, however, Rollin and Louis Blanc
meant socialists, and this effort on their part to influence by official
means the returns of the constituent assembly, destroyed all confidence
in their justice, impartiality, and toleration. Rollin defended the
measures he had adopted in terms, if possible, more imprudent than the
measures themselves, and Albert and Blanc went still further in their
indiscreet words, as well as excited zeal. The result was that moderate
men not only lost confidence in them personally, but became apprehensive
of the designs and tendency of their party, and the elections were
much less favourable to the views and wishes of the "reds" than would
otherwise have been the case. While Ledru Rollin and his communist
colleagues in office were mismanaging everything connected with home
interests, Lamartine was conducting the foreign affairs of France
with surpassing judgment. At first all European governments saw the
proclamation of a French republic with awe, and their thoughts were
only how most effectually to arm and combine against French republic
propagandism. Lamartine soothed this alarm. He addressed a diplomatic
circular to all the agents of France through Europe, expounding the
principles upon which the French republic was founded. His policy might
be summed up in a single sentence of this manifesto,--"The republic is
the will of a great people; it derives its title from itself. Its policy
is peace."

The government adopted the plan of large workshops, and workmen were
employed at the rate of a million and a half sterling a year. Louis
Blanc admitted that unless the work produced should prove remunerative
in the market, it would be impossible for the government to continue
so enormous an outlay. The operatives, perceiving the hesitation of the
government, prepared to carry their communistic views into operation
themselves, without having the trouble of using the provisional
government for their execution.

On the appointed day the assembly met, and the republic was proclaimed.
The real feelings and opinions of the assembly were soon seen; they were
elicited by the ministerial reports. The following description of the
scene presented on the occasion is quoted from the contemporary press:--

"All the preliminaries having been gone through, powers verified, a
president (M. Bûchez) and vice-presidents, secretaries, &c, appointed,
the members of the government proceed to lay before the assembly an
account of their ministries since the establishment of the republic.

"On Saturday, May 6, the president announced that the citizen minister,
Lamartine, was about to make a communication from the government, when
that gentleman ascended the tribune, and proceeded to read a document,
which purported to be a report of the acts of the provisional government
in their _ensemble_--the restoration of order, organisation of the
national guard, _mobile garde_, the army, &c.--enumerating what had been
done in the midst of two months of a crisis during which not a drop of
blood had been shed. Many portions of this report were much applauded,
and at the close there was great enthusiasm.

"He was succeeded by Ledru Rollin, the minister of the interior, who
read a report of the acts of his administration, which he read with
great vehemence, but without exciting applause, except of a very partial
kind from a small minority.

"The minister of justice (M. Crémieux) next ascended the tribune, and
proceeded to read a report of his official acts, in which he recounted
all the ameliorations applied to the administration of justice, the
abolition of capital punishment for capital offences, abolition of the
pillory, &c.

"The next member of the government who ascended the tribune was M. Louis
Blanc, who excited a smile by his first act, which was to stoop and
arrange a _tabouret_, or footstool, on which to raise himself high
enough to be seen. The voice that came from this small form was firm,
clear, and loud; and he, instead of reading, delivered an extempore
oration in favour of his _Organisation du Travail_, to which he said
the government stood committed by its promises to the people assembled
before the Hôtel de Ville the day after the revolution. The assembly
received his oration with a coldness which augured ill.

"M. Carnot, the minister of public instruction, was afterwards heard,
and was succeeded by M. Bethmont, the minister of commerce, who
deposited on the table the _exposé_ of the state of his department. M.
Gamier Pages, minister of finance, concluded his report on the financial
condition of the country.

"M. Arago, the minister of war and marine, and M. Marie, the minister
of public works, next presented the situation of their departments; and
were succeeded by M. Lamartine, minister for foreign affairs, who took
a short review of the aspect of affairs throughout Europe. The general
tone of his remarks was pacific, and in accordance with the principles
of his address some time before to the diplomatic agents of France.

"In the course of the sitting a note from Béranger, the poet, resigning
his seat for Paris, was read; but the assembly unanimously refused to
accept the resignation.

"A stormy discussion then arose on the motion of M. Domes, offering the
thanks of the assembly to the provisional government for their conduct
in the administration of affairs, and nominating a committee of five to
act as a government _ad interim_, until the permanent government of the
country had been constituted. Subsequently, after fearful uproar, the
motion was modified by the withdrawal of the latter part of it, and the
assembly voted that the provisional government had deserved well of
the country. The vote was almost unanimous, M. Barbes, M. Durrien, and
another rising alone against it.

"On Tuesday, at eleven o'clock, M. Bûchez, the president, took the
chair.

"Some apprehensions were entertained that the result of this sitting
would occasion disturbances. The workmen met in several quarters of
Paris, and in the wood of Boulogne, and were understood to have declared
that if M. Ledru Rollin was excluded from the government, they would
take arms. Extraordinary precautions had accordingly been adopted around
the hall. A large force was stationed in the adjoining garden, and
invitations had been sent to the national guards to hold themselves in
readiness to march at the first signal.

"On the following Wednesday, the appointment of an executive committee,
in lieu of the provisional government, was announced. The result of the
ballot was--

     Arago.......................................    725

     Gamier Pages................................    715

     Marie  .....................................    702

     Lamartine ..................................    643

     Ledru Rollin..........,.....................    598

"Those five members having obtained the required majority, were
proclaimed members of the executive committee. M. Louis Blanc, M.
Albert, and M. Flocon were entirely excluded--a fact which the _peuple_
and the 'communists' cherished in vindictive remembrance. M. Ledru
Rollin, whose violence had alarmed the majority, though not excluded,
was at the bottom of the list; and M. de Lamartine, who had lent his
high name and great popularity to support M. Ledru Rollin, was placed
next lowest--all of them being most significant facts to show the
spirit of the assembly, and the probable policy to be hereafter expected
from it."

The discontent of the _ouvriers_ gathered strength, and on the 15th of
May they rose in insurrection. After much severe fighting the insurgents
were defeated, the loyalty of the troops, national guards, and _garde
mobile_ to the republic sustaining the cause of order. The _garde
mobile_ had been organised from the very lowest classes in Paris--
classes below the workmen--and was composed of mere youths, who
distinguished themselves beyond all other forces by their heroic
courage throughout that eventful day. The result to the leaders of
the socialists was that many of them, such as Albert, Barbes, Blanqui,
Raspail, and Sobrier were consigned to prison. Louis Blanc had a very
narrow escape of being numbered among them.

The suppression of the clubs and of the _atteliers nationaux_, followed
this success on the part of the government, but still more exasperated
the workmen. In this condition of affairs Prince Louis Napoleon was
elected for Paris, as representative in the room of one of the double
returns made in the general election. He was also elected for three
departmental vacancies, caused also by double returns in the general
election. It at once became the fashion to laud the prince. All
parties, except the "republicans pure and simple," seemed to think that
Napoleonism offered a refuge from anarchy. The "reds" favoured him from
hatred to the party of the executive committee, or rather the majority
of that party; but in reality no faction hated Louis Napoleon at heart
so much as they. At all events, his name became a rallying word for
nearly all the lovers of order, who were not believers in the theory of
philosophical republicanism. The most ominous thing connected with
these demonstrations was the appearance of a journal entitled _Le
Napoléonien_. Placards also appeared with the words "_Louis Napoleon!
Vive l'Empereur! A bas la République!_" and crowds, shouting the name of
Buonaparte, collected in various parts of Paris, the _générale_ and the
_rappel_ were beaten, troops assembled, and the guards, _sédentaires_
and _mobile_, were frequently assembled to protect the government and
the representatives. Shots were fired, some lives were lost, and the
panic became general throughout Paris. Lamartine took advantage of this,
and proposed to the assembly that the laws of 1816 and 1832 should be
enforced, forbidding the entrance of any of the Buonaparte family into
France. This motion was received by the assembly with loud shouts of
"_Vive la République!_" Many who joined in that shout would have shouted
still more cordially for Louis Philippe or the representative of the
older branch of the Bourbon family. The cry of the republic answered
their present purpose of committing the executive committee to imprudent
measures, and of excluding the Buonapartists, who were regarded as more
formidable rivals to the Bourbons than the republicans, old or new. The
assembly was not able to carry out its own resolution; after coquetting
with public opinion and persisting for a time, the exclusion of the
Buonapartes was given up as impracticable; and the prince, again
elected for Corsica and other electoral districts, took his place in the
legislative assembly, accepted the oaths to the republic, and before
the year expired was president. Before that was accomplished France
was doomed to undergo fresh trials, and Paris to witness still more
sanguinary scenes.

The question of labour-regulation continued, under every improvement and
modification that was devised, to embarrass the government; and it was
at last resolved to remove from Paris great numbers of the workmen to
distant parts of the country, to be engaged there on various public
works. This the men determined to resist, and to subvert a government
which dared to suggest such a measure. The government was, however,
forced to adopt at once some plan to rid itself of the peril and
imminent ruin of the _atteliers_. In the National Assembly, Victor Hugo,
M. Léon Faucher, and others, denounced the connivance of the executive
committee with a state of things that must speedily destroy France. The
number of workmen then engaged in the government workshops of Paris was
one hundred and twenty thousand. On the night of the 22nd of June,
cries of "Down with the Assembly!" were raised by the _ouvriers_ in the
streets. In the morning, signs of disturbance were indicated in many
quarters. In the course of a few hours the workmen began to erect
barricades. Fighting began between the national guards and the
constructors of the barricades at the Porte Saint-Denis. Throughout
the day barricades were demolished by the national guards and _gardes
mobiles_, but only after fierce and deadly conflict. During the night of
the 23rd new barricades were raised as if by magic, and on the morning
of the 24th, a system of ingenious and powerful defences existed through
a large extent of Paris, behind which and commanding which, from the
windows and house-tops, well-armed and determined men were placed.
Happily the government consigned to General Cavaignac, minister of
war, all the functions of a dictator. He was ably seconded by General
Lamoricière, and other officers of rank, several of whom sealed their
fidelity in death. During the 24th, terrible battle raged in the streets
of Paris, but the troops and civic soldiery stormed the barricades
and conquered. Mortars were used, from which showers of shells were
discharged, which bursting behind the barricades shattered these
defences, ponderous although they were, scattering them, and the bodies
of the brave men who defended them to the last. Shells also were thrown
into the houses, whence a fire was kept up upon the military in the
streets: many of these houses were torn to pieces, burying the defenders
in their ruins. In some streets the troops had to cut their way from
house to house, the sappers knocking down the party-walls: the contest
in these directions resembled that at Saragossa, where, amidst crumbling
walls and blazing roofs, men fought foot to foot, in the agonies of
valour, fanaticism, and despair. Throughout the 25th and 26th the
conflict raged, but was terminated on the evening of that day. Twenty
thousand men were killed or wounded. General Cavaignac was elected by
the assembly president of the council. The gallant general conducted his
administration with justice and wisdom.

During the month of June, a committee appointed by the assembly was
engaged in drawing up a constitution; they presented a report to the
following effect:--They proposed that there should be a president
elected by universal suffrage for a period of four years; he was to be
a French citizen, not less than thirty years of age. The legislature
to consist of one chamber; that chamber to consist of seven hundred
and thirty members. The ministers to be appointed and dismissed at the
pleasure of the president. A council of state to be appointed out of the
assembly, forty in number, and chosen by the assembly itself; that body
to draw up the projects of law which the government might think fit
to bring in. The punishment of death for political offences was
interdicted. Slavery to be abolished in all French colonies. The press
to be free. All religions to be allowed, and their ministers to be
paid by the state. Public instruction to be free, subject to the
superintendence of the state. Substitutes for the army and navy to be
disallowed. The national debt to be deemed sacred. Property inviolable.
Algeria, and all other French colonies, to be integral parts of the
French soil, but to be governed by laws peculiar to themselves. Trials
to be public, and the office of judge to be permanent.

This project of constitution was accepted as a base for further
consideration. Subsequently it was modified, but not in any way
essentially to alter its principles. The resolution regarding colonial
slavery roused the whole colonial interest of France against the
republic. That which forbid substitutes for the army and navy created
wide-spread dissatisfaction. The former of these provisions of the
constitution was so just and humane, that it deserved to be carried out
at any cost; the other was impolitic, as it deprived large numbers who
would not serve in the army or navy of the opportunity of avoiding
that service, if they fell under the ballot, by nominating a substitute
willing to serve if remunerated.

The question of the adoption of the constitution was finally put on
the 4th of November, and carried, thirty voices being dissident. In the
evening of the same day, one hundred and one cannon shots announced to
Paris and its environs that the work of preparing the constitution had
been completed. The public made no manifestation of feeling. Only the
old republican party valued so free a constitution. The _ouvriers_ cared
not for it, nor for anything short of socialism. The Absolutists hated
liberty in every form. The Buonapartists regarded it as an instrument
that might be made available for reconstituting the empire. The
Orleanists received it with more malignant hostility than any other
class. They professed the theory of a constitutional monarchy; but
the free and just and noble constitution of the republic contrasted so
advantageously with the corrupt practices and _doctrinaire_ theories of
Louis Philippe and his favourites, that the Orleans party betrayed the
most malevolent feelings to the republican leaders, such as Cavaignac
and Lamartine, and the uttermost repugnance to the republic itself.
Louis Philippe, in England, entertained his friends with garrulous
accounts of his own wisdom in all the measures he had adopted,
predicting that France, enamoured of the glory of his reign, would
repent and return to him again! His queen, equally incapable of
appreciating France, dwelt only upon the injury inflicted upon religion
by the conduct of the French people in dethroning their king, and
making an indiscriminate establishment of all churches a feature of the
constitution. Her silence, gravity, and the religious view she took
of the event were strangely in contrast to the vanity, levity, and
self-gratulation with which the king talked of his temporarily humbled
fortunes.

The proclamation of the constitution failed in quieting enemies,
restoring public confidence in the state of affairs, or reviving
material prosperity, notwithstanding all that so many eloquent orators
of the old republican party predicted to that effect. The _Presse_ at
this juncture gave a most melancholy account of the sufferings of the
poor, and the distress of the commercial classes:--"It will be necessary
to feed at the public expense two hundred and sixty-three thousand
persons during the present month, two hundred and eighty thousand
during the month of December, three hundred thousand during the month
of January, three hundred thousand during the month of February, three
hundred thousand during the month of March, and two hundred and eighty
thousand during the month of April next; and the sum granted by the
assembly will not afford each individual more than 12 centimes (1d. and
2/5ths) per day each to exist upon. At the same time the revenue of
the city of Paris has fallen off by a sum of 16,000,000 fr. (£640,000),
which must be made good by an addition to the assessed taxes of more
than 50 per cent."

The Socialists were not without hope that matters would turn to their
account; and although they did not dare to defy the republic in action,
they became more resentful in language than ever. They continued to
hold meetings, in which opinions at variance with all morality and civil
order were expressed, and which would have alarmed every government
in Europe, had not recent events been of a character to confine the
attention of these governments to domestic affairs. A banquet, under the
title of "The Confederation of the People of Europe," was held, at
which eight hundred men, French, Poles, Belgians, Germans, and Italians
assembled; the most furious threats to kings, governments, persons of
property, and to all persons everywhere not favourable to communistic
projects, were uttered. One blasphemous toast will show the _animus_
of the assembly, and of its orators. It was delivered by M. Saint
Just:--"To the men strong, courageous, and valiant in the cause of
humanity. To those whose names serve as a guide, a support, and an
example to the degenerate beings--to all those whom history calls
heroes!... To Brutus, to Catiline, to Jesus Christ, to Julian the
Apostate, to Attila!... To all the thinkers of the middle age....
To unfortunate thinkers!... To Jean Jacques Rousseau, and his pupil,
Maximilian Robespierre!" This enumeration of names was received with a
triple salvo of applause, and was encored, with which request M. Saint
Just complied. The banquet concluded with the "Marseillaise" and the
"Chant du Départ" sung by the entire company.

The great work of electing a president proceeded without interruption or
disturbance, and the result was the election of Prince Louis Napoleon
by an overwhelming majority. The following, by an eye-witness, is a
condensed account of the transactions in the assembly upon the occasion
of formally announcing this result. The letter was dated November 20th,
and referred to the previous Wednesday, as selected for the ceremony by
the executive government, instead of Thursday, which had been publicly
announced; the change of the day arising from the apprehension of
disturbances consequent upon an attempt which was expected to be made
to greet Napoleon as emperor. The prince himself acquiesced in the
arrangement, to prevent unnecessary bloodshed:--

"At two o'clock orders were forwarded by the government to the colonels
of the 24th regiment of infantry and of two regiments of dragoons to
march their corps towards the National Assembly. At three o'clock two
battalions of the former, and a battalion of _garde mobile_, preceded
by a detachment of national guards, entered the Garden of the Tuileries,
and advanced to the gate of the Place de la Concorde, a general,
accompanied by his aide-de-camp, and escorted by a few lancers, taking
his station close to the obelisk. In the meantime, the quays adjoining
the palace were lined with dragoons. The presence of these troops, which
nobody could account for, created much uneasiness, though in some
groups a report circulated that the assembly was about to proclaim the
president of the republic.

"At half-past three o'clock M. Marrast, president, took the chair. The
assembly was extremely numerous, and animated groups were to be seen
here and there through the hall. Prince Louis Napoleon was not present
at the opening of the sitting, but his cousin, Jerome Buonaparte,
occupied his seat. The public galleries were crowded. In one of them we
remarked Princess Mathilda, sister of Jerome, and next to her M. Emile
de Girardin. Two aides-de-camp appointed in the morning by the prince,
M. Edgar Ney, and a son of General Pajol, were also present. No serious
discussion could take place in the state of excitement of the assembly,
and most of the orders of the day were adjourned. Two applications for
leave to prosecute Messrs. Caussidière and Turk, representatives of the
people, were rejected.

"The committee charged with examining the electoral returns for the
presidency entered the chamber at four o'clock, when the president
immediately called to the tribune M. Waldeck Rousseau, the reporter of
the committee, who read the report. It stated that seven million three
hundred and forty-nine thousand citizens of the republic had voted at
the presidential election, and that the votes had been divided in the
following proportion over the surface of the country:--

     M. Louis Napoloen had obtained ... 5,434,226  suffrages.

     General Cavaignac  ............... 1,448,107     "

     M. Ledru-Rollin  .................   370,119     "

     M. Raspail........................    36,900     "

     M. Lamartine   ...................    17,910     "

     General Changamier   .............     4,790     "

     Votes lost........................    12,600     "

Among the latter were many containing unconstitutional denominations,
and the committee had besides denounced to the minister of the interior
for prosecution a few individuals guilty of acts of violence. At
Grenoble, in particular, public tranquillity was slightly disturbed.
The committee had, moreover, examined several protests addressed to it
against the election of M. Buonaparte. In one of them he was declared
ineligible, because he had forfeited his rights as a Frenchman by his
naturalisation in Switzerland. The members of the committee however
had, by a unanimous decision, passed to the order of the day on that
difficulty. By the number of the votes, and the regularity of the
operation, M. Louis Napoleon was the real elect of the nation, and the
assembly had only to order that the executive power be transferred to
his hands. After paying a tribute of praise and gratitude to General
Cavaignac, which was ratified by the loud acclamations of the entire
assembly, M. Rousseau concluded by calling upon it to proclaim the
president, and exclaimed, 'Have confidence, God protects France.'

"General Cavaignac, having then ascended the tribune, said, 'I have
the honour of informing the National Assembly that the members of the
cabinet have just sent me their collective resignation; and I now come
forward to surrender the powers with which it had invested me. You will
understand, better than I can express, the sentiments of gratitude which
the recollection of the confidence placed in me by the assembly, and
of its kindness to me, will leave in my heart.' This short address was
received with deafening cries of 'Vive la République!'

"M. Marrast then rose and said, 'In the name of the French people!
Whereas Citizen Charles Louis Napoleon Buonaparte, born in Paris,
possesses all the qualifications of eligibility required by the 44th
article of the constitution; whereas the ballot gave him the absolute
majority of suffrages for the presidency: by virtue of the powers
conferred on the assembly by the 47th and 48th articles of the
constitution, I proclaim him President of the French Republic, from this
day until the second Sunday of May, 1852, and I now invite him to ascend
the tribune and take the oath required by the constitution.'

"M. Louis Napoleon, who was seated near M. Odilon Barrot, then rose
and advanced towards the tribune. He was dressed in black; on his left
breast was a _crachat_ set with diamonds, and under his coat he wore the
grand cordon of the Legion of Honour. Having mounted the tribune, the
president read to him the oath of fidelity to the constitution, to which
M. Louis Napoleon replied, 'Je le jure.' He then asked leave to address
a few words to the assembly. The suffrages of the nation and his
personal sentiments, he said, commanded his future conduct, and imposed
upon him duties which he would fulfil as a man of honour. He would
treat as enemies of the country whoever should attempt to subvert the
constitution, and between him and the assembly would exist the most
perfect harmony of views. He would exert himself to place society on its
real basis, and to relieve the sufferings of a people who had borne such
generous and intelligent testimony. He would endeavour to restore to the
government the moral force of which it stood in need, and to maintain
peace and order. He had called around him men distinguished for talent
and patriotism, who, notwithstanding the differences of their political
origin, would assist him in consolidating the new institutions of the
country. He then eulogised the becoming conduct and loyalty of which
General Cavaignac had given so many and such signal proofs, and pledged
himself strenuously to labour to accomplish the great mission of
founding the republic, without recurring to reactionary or Utopian
means; and, with the assistance of God, he trusted to achieve useful if
not great things.

"This speech was received with unanimous cries of 'Vive la République!'
and M. Louis Buonaparte, having descended the tribune, went up to the
seat of General Cavaignac, and cordially shook him by the hand. The new
president was then met by M. Odilon Barrot and his friends of the right,
who escorted him out of the hall. In leaving the hall the president was
accompanied by a great number of the members of the assembly, and passed
between a double line of soldiers and national guards, which extended
through the Salle des Pas Perdus to the gate upon the quay facing the
Place de la Concorde. There was no manifestation of enthusiasm at this
moment. A carriage waited for the president at the gate, in which he
left for the palace of the Elysée Bourbon, escorted by a squadron of
dragoons and lancers. The cannon of the Invalides were discharged as a
salute at the moment. General Changarnier attended on the occasion, and
directed the proceedings. It was remarked that, on the occasion of
this solemnity, all the enthusiasm of the assembly was shown to General
Cavaignac, and the utmost coldness towards Prince Louis.

"M. Marrast next announced that M. Odilon Barrot was charged with
the construction of the new cabinet, which would be communicated by a
message to the assembly. The house afterwards adjourned."

Such were the great events in France during the year 1818, events which
too nearly affected the connection of England with that country to be
given here in less detail.

During the progress of these transactions the relations of Great
Britain and France became delicate and critical; but the wisdom of the
provisional government on the one hand, and of the British government
on the other, prevented any collision. Diplomatic relations were
necessarily interrupted for a time by the revolution, and the flight
of the king; but her Britannic majesty, in her speech proroguing
parliament, expressed her satisfaction that she had been enabled to
resume the usual intercourse between the two governments. Several
occasions arose when even a slight deviation from international equity
on the part of the French provisional government might have involved the
two countries in war. In England the Chartists continued the agitations
already recorded, and made a grand demonstration, which will be related
in another section of this chapter. While they were preparing to put
forth this exhibition of strength, a correspondence was kept up by many
of their leaders with those of the French Communists, and the excitement
of the latter was intense as the hour approached for the grand
_denouement_. Indeed, all classes of the French, except the most
intelligent, especially in Paris, regarded a revolution in England as
inevitable. They were under the delusion that Fergus O'Connor and his
colleagues and followers were, politically speaking, the English people.
The following account of this impression was given by a gentleman then
resident in Paris:--"Never, during the many years I have resided in
Paris, did any event in England excite such universal interest among all
classes of the French as the great chartist demonstration has done. For
days and days it was a leading topic in the newspapers, and for days the
general subject of conversation. Both newspapers and talkers, relying
on the big swagger of the Chartists, and the undisguised alarm of the
government, confidently expected a stern and terrible straggle, with
barricades, and bayonets, and pikes, and deluges of blood, and awful
slaughter. To this expectation many added the hope of seeing a complete
revolution effected--a revolution which would overthrow throne,
aristocracy, and middle class, leaving the people and the republic
triumphant. So deeply had this hope taken possession of the more
sanguine, that they could not bear to hear the slightest doubt of its
realisation expressed."

Strange as it may seem to English readers, the chartist proceedings in
England, and those of the Irish repeal party, had considerable influence
not only in sustaining unreasonable expectation among the French
workmen, but even on their modes of procedure. It was not until the
speeches of O'Connor and other Chartists claiming "the land for the
people," and the articles of Mitchell and others in Ireland demanding
for the farmers a right in the soil, were circulated in Paris, that
the workmen there began an agitation against rent. This they maintained
until the restoration of order restored to the house-owners the means
of asserting the rights of property. The following graphic and
lively description of the agitation, incited and fostered under such
circumstances, is no exaggeration:--"The past week has been the
calmest which we have had since the revolution. We have had no forced
illuminations, no planting of trees of liberty, no physical-force
demonstrations, no great display of any kind; in fact, we have been
decidedly dull. But in some parts of the city, our sovereign lord and
master, the Mob, has been graciously pleased to afford us a little
interesting excitement by bullying the landlords into giving receipts
for their rents, without the usual preliminary ceremony of fingering
the cash. 'Base is the slave that pays his rent' is now the motto of
the mob, and his mobship chalks it up along with 'liberty, equality,
fraternity!' To show, however, that he is really a good fellow at heart,
the said mob no sooner swindles (I am afraid it amounts to swindling in
English) the landlord out of his rent, than he invests a small portion
of the coin in the purchase of a tricolor flag, with which he decorates
the landlord's house. And such is the worthy fellow's moderation, that
even when the landlord has refused to be victimised, the mob has not
inflicted summary vengeance on him; he has only stuck a black flag
before the offender's door, or playfully made his effigy dangle by the
neck from the nearest lamp-post."

In Ireland the progress of sedition afforded a much more favourable
opportunity for displaying the equity and prudence of the French
provisional government. An address was voted to the republic of France
by the Young Irelanders, who styled themselves the people of Ireland,
although they well knew that millions of Irishmen, numbering among them
her most intelligent and influential citizens, repudiated the principles
and proceedings of the party. A deputation, consisting of Mr. Smith
O'Brien and several other gentlemen, were sent to Paris to express the
sympathy and congratulation of the Irish people on the new-born liberty
of the citizens of France. It was well understood in England, and much
better understood in Ireland, that the deputation were expected to sound
the French government as to any hope of assistance in case of a rising
in Ireland; and also to stir up the minds of the French people generally
to more decided interest for Ireland, and a greater willingness to
identify the French republic with Irish hopes and aspirations. On
the 3rd of April the young Ireland deputation was received by the
provisional government at the Hôtel de Ville, and there presented an
address in the spirit of their mission. The following reply was read by
Lamartine:--

"_Citizens of Ireland_,--If we required a fresh proof of the pacific
influence of the proclamation of the great democratic principle,--this
new Christianity, bursting forth at the opportune moment, and dividing
the world, as formerly, into a Pagan and Christian community,--we should
assuredly discern this proof of the omnipotent action of an idea, in
the visits spontaneously paid in this city to republican France, and
the principles which animate her, by the nations, or by fractions of the
nations, of Europe.

"We are not astonished to see to-day a deputation from Ireland. Ireland
knows how deeply her destinies, her sufferings, and her successive
advances in the path of religious liberty, of unity, and of
constitutional equality with the other parts of the United Kingdom, have
at all times moved the heart of Europe. We said as much, a few days ago,
to another deputation of your fellow-citizens. We said as much to all
the children of that glorious Isle of Erin, which the natural genius of
its inhabitants, and the striking events of its history, render equally
symbolical of the poetry and the heroism of the nations of the north.
Rest assured, therefore, that you will find in France, under the
republic, a response to all the sentiments which you express towards it.

"Tell your fellow-citizens that the name of Ireland is synonymous with
the name of liberty courageously defended against privilege--that it is
one common name to every French citizen. Tell them that this reciprocity
which they invoke--that this hospitality of which they are not
oblivious--the republic will be proud to remember and to practise
invariably towards the Irish. Tell them, above all, that the French
republic is not, and never will be, an aristocratic republic, in which
liberty is merely abused as the mask of privilege; but a republic
embracing the entire community, and securing to all the same rights and
the same benefits. As regards other encouragements, it would be neither
expedient for us to hold them out, nor for you to receive them. I have
already expressed the same opinion with reference to Germany, Belgium,
and Italy; and I repeat it with reference to every nation which is
involved in internal disputes--which is either divided against itself
or at variance with its government. When there is a difference of
race--when nations are aliens in blood--intervention is not allowable.
We belong to no party in Ireland or elsewhere, except to that which
contends for justice, for liberty, and for the happiness of the Irish
people. No other part would be acceptable to us, in the time of peace,
in the interests and the passions of foreign nations. France is desirous
of reserving herself free for the maintenance of the rights of all.

"We are at peace, and we are desirous of remaining on good terms of
equality, not with this or that part of Great Britain, but with Great
Britain entire. We believe this peace to be useful and honourable, not
only to Great Britain and the French republic, but to the human race. We
will not commit an act--we will not utter a word--we will not breathe
an insinuation at variance with the principles of the reciprocal
inviolability of nations which we have proclaimed, and of which the
continent of Europe is already gathering the fruits. The fallen monarchy
had treaties and diplomatists. Our diplomatists are nations, our
treaties are sympathies. We should be insane were we openly to exchange
such a diplomacy for unmeaning and partial alliances with even the
most legitimate parties in the countries which surround us. We are not
competent either to judge them or to prefer some of them to others; by
announcing our partizanship on the one side, we should declare ourselves
the enemies of the other. We do not wish to be the enemies of any
of your fellow-countrymen. We wish, on the contrary, by a faithful
observance of the republican pledges, to remove all the prejudices which
may mutually exist between our neighbours and ourselves. This course,
however painful it may be, is imposed on us by the law of nations, as
well as by our historical remembrances.

"Do you know what it was which most served to irritate France and
estrange her from England during the first republic? It was the civil
war in a portion of our territory, supported, subsidised, and assisted
by Mr. Pitt. It was the encouragement and the arms given to Frenchmen,
as heroical as yourselves, but Frenchmen fighting against their
fellow-citizens. This was not honourable warfare; it was a royalist
propagandism waged with French blood against the republic. This policy
is not yet, in spite of all our efforts, entirely effaced from the
memory of the nation. Well, this cause of dissension between Great
Britain and us, we will never renew by taking any similar course. We
accept with gratitude expressions of friendship from the different
nationalities included in the British empire. We ardently wish that
justice may found and strengthen the friendship of races; that equity
may become more and more its basis; but while proclaiming with you,
with her (England), and with all, the holy dogma of fraternity, we will
perform only acts of brotherhood, in conformity with our principles and
our feelings towards the Irish nation."

At the conclusion of this reply some present exclaimed, "Vive la
République!" others "Vive le Gouvernement Provisore!" and a few
cried out, "Vive Lamartine!" but the general impression was one of
dissatisfaction. Smith O'Brien and his companions retired discomfited.
The British government and people received the intelligence of this
reply with the greatest satisfaction, and their confidence in the
provisional government, and in Lamartine, more especially, was much
increased. There was already more reliance upon the friendly policy of
the republic than there had been upon the monarchy and the monarchial
ministry of Louis Philippe. In Ireland the reply of Lamartine gave
satisfaction also to the Protestants, and such of the Roman Catholic
citizens as were opposed to the O'Brien movement; but the Young
Irelanders, and most of the Old Irelanders, were exasperated, and
in their speeches and newspapers denounced Lamartine as the enemy
of liberty, the sycophant of England, and the incubus of the French
provisional government. It was said that he had married an English lady,
and was more English at heart than French--that he would betray the
republic to England or to monarchy. Those persons who had been foremost
in holding him up as a demi-god, now abused him not only as a traitor,
but as weak in purpose, policy, and intellectual grasp. John Mitchell
denounced him as the great obstruction to the development of
European freedom, which no doubt he was to such freedom as Mitchell
advocated--the plunder and tyranny of a modified communism; for while
essentially holding that theory, he in some way, not very intelligible
to others, repudiated it. Lamartine began his career of power by
emancipating the negro race; Mitchell commenced his career as a free
exile in America, some years after, by the most violent advocacy of the
fetter and the whip for the coloured population of that country. The
_Nation_ newspaper, week after week, informed its readers that Lamartine
was an idle dreamer, a mere theoretical politician; that his mind was
only constituted for the regions of romance; and that his opinion on the
affairs of Ireland, England, France, or Europe was worthless. A week or
two before the same paper held him up as the very Achilles of freedom,
and the hope of Ireland--for it was the habit of both the parties
claiming nationality in Ireland, to hope for liberty from the courage
and efforts of others rather than from their own. The reply of Lamartine
caused as much despondency in Ireland among the seditious, as it
inspired confidence among the loyal, and among all the intelligent
citizens in Great Britain. Throughout the year the conduct of the French
government was internationally just and courteous, and England had no
cause for complaint, but every reason to be thankful that Louis Philippe
and Guizot had given place to such men as Lamartine and Cavaignac.

The revolution in France was of more importance to England than the
revolutions which took place in Italy and Germany--they require,
therefore, only a comparatively brief notice.


ITALY.

All Italy felt the shock of the French revolution, although, in point
of time, the revolutionary feeling developed itself in Italy before it
burst forth in France. Throughout the year 1847 all Switzerland, and
Austrian and Papal Italy, were uneasy; and in January, six weeks before
the dethronement of Louis Philippe, there were disturbances in Milan.
Indeed, from the moment Pius IX. ascended the papal throne, a change
came over the people of Italy: it was supposed that the pope was a
patriot, and would favour the struggle for Italian liberty, and this
delusion was not dispelled until after the battle of Novara. It was then
found that the pope and the kasir were allies, even while the troops of
the former were marching forth ostensibly to do battle for Italy.

When the tidings of the revolt in Paris reached Italy, the people flew
to arms. General Radetzsky and his Austrian troops were driven from
Milan; a provisional government was formed, and all Italy was called
upon to arm. The King of Sardinia, who had proclaimed a most liberal
constitution for his own kingdom, marched an army into Lombardy; Venice
revolted; and Radetzsky retired upon Verona. The Austrian lines along
the Mincio were forced, and the position of Radetzsky's forces was
dangerous. Two circumstances, however, favoured him--the supineness of
the papal troops, and the junction of Nugent, an Irish marshal in the
Austrian service, with the troops under his command. After various
fortunes, the allied Italians were beaten; Lombardy and Venice were
entirely subjected to the Austrian arms; and but for English and
French diplomacy, Sardinia also would have fallen before the victorious
Austrian. The English government was desirous to see Italy freed from
Austrian domination, and would not have submitted to see Sardinia
overthrown by an invasion of the kasir's army. France, also, regarded
events there with views similar to those entertained by England, but
it did not suit the policy of either country to interfere beyond the
diplomatic interposition by which Sardinia was saved. Probably they were
also influenced by the suspicion that the royal house of Sardinia was
more actuated by ambition than by a desire for the liberties of Italy.
The fact of the king having granted a constitution did not altogether
prevent such suspicions, because that was his only hope of gaining
ascendancy in Italy; and the general tone of the Sardinian court and
cabinet gave a colour to the impression that their policy was not
entirely disinterested. His majesty was glad to consent to an armistice
with Radetzsky, and to fall back behind the shields of France and
England for safety. The king, however, was obliged to abdicate; shame,
the defeat of his armies, the failure of his policy, and the certainty
that if he remained upon the throne, the kasir would seize the first
opportunity to make war upon him, determined him to abdicate.


THE PAPAL STATES.

Early in the year the pope published a new plan for the organisation of
the executive government of his dominions, which gave satisfaction to
the liberal friends of the popedom. On the 14th of March he proclaimed
a new constitution. The resistance offered to the national will, in the
case of Austria, caused him to become unpopular. On the 29th of April
he addressed the cardinals in conclave, disavowing the act of the papal
troops proceeding against the Austrian armies in Italy. This caused
a popular tumult; the next day the people took possession of the
post-office and the offices of state, and discovered that the pope and
cardinals had been intriguing with Austria. The result was the entire
sacrifice of the pontiff's popularity; all confidence in his honour,
and that of his cardinals, was erased from the Roman mind. Under the
pressure of the public demand, he, on the 1st of May, proclaimed war
against Austria, but never intended to adopt such measures as would
carry the declaration into effect. He intended to deceive the people,
seeing that they were determined on war; and he knew that this could be
better done by retaining his authority over the troops, than by allowing
the war to be carried out by a popular and lay administration, which
would be in earnest. Early in May a new ministry of a liberal character
was formed, but the pope's private advisers counteracted their policy.
The result was a revolution--not against the pope's ecclesiastical,
but solely against his temporal, authority. Scenes of the most dreadful
nature followed, all of which might have been averted by an honest
course on the part of the pontiff, and the college of cardinals.
The pope was really willing to concede much; but the demand that the
temporal government of the people should be by and for the people,
he was not willing to admit; and by covertly attempting to destroy or
counteract all that he publicly and ostensibly admitted, he filled the
people with incurable resentment against those who surrounded him,
and to whom they attributed, rather than to himself, the faithless and
despotic policy in secret pursued. A chamber of deputies was convoked,
to whom the pope formally surrendered his government, declining to take
any part in their doings, or to afford any sanction. Several of the
high ecclesiastics and lay authorities, by whose agency he sought to
counteract the efforts for constitutional liberty which the people
made, were slain, and others driven from Rome. At last, on the 24th of
November, he disguised himself as a livery servant in attendance upon
the Bavarian ambassador, and mounting the box of that gentleman's
carriage, beside his coachman, was driven to the house of the Bavarian
embassy; thence, disguised as the chaplain to the embassy, he succeeded
in escaping to Gaeta, a town within the Neapolitan territory. The flight
of the pope was followed by a protest on his part against the liberalism
of his people, who organised a regular government on liberal principles;
their efforts were counteracted by the spies and agents of the pope,
and the embassies of all the Roman Catholic powers: among the foreign
representatives, none was more hostile to the incipient liberties of
Rome than the ambassador of the French republic.

The pope, the kasir, the king of Naples, and the despots of the smaller
Italian states, considered that England was the chief fomenter of
Italian disturbance. This arose from one of those whig _mal àpropos_
movements for which their party had of late years earned a bad
reputation. Lord Minto was dispatched to Italy in a semi-official
capacity; the real object of his mission was to open diplomatic
relations with the pope, who, although very desirous to respond to the
wishes of the English Whigs, thought it a good opportunity to extort
some concessions as to the interests of the Roman Catholic religion in
British territory. The Whigs, knowing that they dare not face the public
opinion of Great Britain, if they made such concessions as the pope's
demands and their own wishes would prompt, were baulked in their
undertaking. They succeeded, however, in obtaining a certain amount of
influence upon the Roman Catholic clergy of Ireland, restraining
the latter from favouring the revolutionary designs existing in that
country. It was remarkable that while the Irish Roman Catholics were
abusing Lamartine and the French provisional government, for not
assisting by arms revolution in Ireland,--that is, a revolution of a
portion of the Irish who followed certain leaders,--they were equally
abusive of the people of Rome for daring, against the will of the pope,
to assert any measure of civil or religious liberty, however modest.
Impudent threats were made of sending an Irish army to the pope's
assistance, at the very time that the persons so vaunting were afraid of
the Dublin police!

The close of the year saw the pope a fugitive and the people free.


NAPLES AND SICILY.

These countries did not escape the revolutionary contagion. Sicily flew
to arms, and the revolt succeeded. The English government was desirous
to see Sicily separated from Naples; and their emissary, Lord Minto, so
betrayed this feeling to the king of the two Sicilies as to inspire him
with intense hatred to England, and to confirm him in the opinion that
English agency was busy in creating or sustaining the confusion of the
continente, Lord Minto had the preposterous folly to suggest to the
king that Sicily should only be garrisoned by Sicilian troops! This, of
course, was indignantly rejected by both the king and cabinet.

The Sicilians published a manifesto of their free and moderate opinions,
which was very excellent. The document was very deceptive, and designed
to gain support in England and France. One of the false promises of the
manifesto was the entire freedom of religion; one of the first acts of
the Sicilians in their short-lived power was a rigorous establishment
of the Roman Catholic religion, and this was enacted in terms which
disclosed the bigoted feelings of the nation. Sicily wanted to be
independent of Naples, but it had not the same wish to be separated from
the despotic principle. An independent nation, without a free people,
was the highest aspiration of revolted Sicily. England and France left
her to her fate, except so far as Lord Minto's meddling complicated
her condition. The temporarily vanquished Neapolitans returned to the
contest, and the revolution was ingloriously suppressed.

In Naples the victory of the constitution was as short as the
independence, of Sicily. The king acted without sincerity, and the
deputies without prudence. The king found an opportunity of resistance,
for which he had well prepared himself. He was surrounded by Swiss
guards, recruited from the bigoted Roman Catholic cantons of the
Sonderbund, or what had been so termed before its tyranny was crushed
the previous year. The king had also the lazzaroni on his side; some
thirty thousand thieves, assassins, street beggars, and burglars were
in his majesty's royal pay and royal favour. They were enthusiastic for
king, church, and plunder. It was alleged that the royal promise was
held out to them that if they conquered the citizens they would be
permitted to sack the city. The event seemed as if such allegation were
true; the united Swiss and lazzaroni conquered, and the city was sacked.
The king permitted, and his minions encouraged, the most infamous
proceedings: riot, robbery, and debauch filled every street and almost
every house, while blood, the blood of the best citizens of Naples,
flowed in torrents. There is no knowing to what extent these horrors
might have been carried by the "faithful lazzaroni," had not the French
admiral in the bay declared that he would act against the king if these
inhumanities were not at once stopped. The lazzaroni must have been
at the king's beck, for the moment he was alarmed by threats of the
interference of a French squadron, he called in his bloodhounds, and
held the leash until the threatened danger passed.


BELGIUM.

Much concern was felt in England as to the part which Belgium would take
in the terrible continental tragedy. The king being her majesty's uncle,
and also the uncle of her consort, the safety of his throne was regarded
anxiously by the English court. As he had by his second marriage
connected himself with the family of Louis Philippe, the French
republicans looked upon him as a very suspicious neighbour; but the
prudent policy of Lamartine prevented any collision, and checked the
propagandism which both sections of French republicans desired to
bring to bear upon Belgium. The "Reds," perceiving that the provisional
government was not disposed to embroil itself with foreign powers,
organised an _émeute_ in Belgium with a sort of filibustering expedition
of their own. Several hundred socialists made their way into Belgium,
and used every effort to induce the people to join them, but in vain,--a
few only, who like themselves, held extreme and impracticable views of
democracy, made any insurrectionary movement; and the affair exploded as
harmlessly as Smith O'Brien's abortive attempt at revolution in Ireland.
Had any success, short of a complete revolution, attended the efforts of
the French "sympathisers," the armed intervention of England might have
been necessitated, and another long war with France have spread its
terrors, havoc, and ruin in Belgium.


GERMANY.

The people of Germany were ripe for revolt when the tidings of the
French revolution came suddenly as a flash along the electric wire. No
people had ever been more basely deceived by princes than the Germans.
Constitutions were promised, and the promises shamefully violated,
sometimes ostensibly conceded, but really never acted upon. The oaths
of kings were synonymous for falsehood throughout the great fatherland.
Schiller has sung--

     "The human being:
     May not be trusted with self-government;"

but the poet and philosopher must have understood that the human
being is as worthy to be trusted with self-government as with the
irresponsible government of other men, no way his inferiors--perhaps,
morally and intellectually, superior to him. The Prussian people could
have governed themselves with as much ability as the king governed them.
The Hanoverians could have managed their own affairs as morally as the
English Duke of Cumberland, or his son George conducted them. Nor did
the wisdom of the Austrian emperor, for matters of government, exceed
the intelligence of the educated citizens of Vienna.

The first vibration of the great French earthquake was felt in the grand
Duchy of Baden. The people, as one man, demanded liberty; the demand was
too unanimously made to be resisted; the victory was won without a shot.
On the 3rd of March the Rhenish provinces of Prussia felt the shock, and
Cologne was in arms; on the 4th, Wisbaden; on the 5th, Dusseldorf; on
the 8th, the Hessians of Cassel barricaded the streets, and flew to
arms--their victory was won without blood. Early in March the people of
Munich demanded their rights, which none but slaves consented to forego;
they were refused; the people responded to the first cry "to arms" that
was raised; the troops would not charge the people, but mingled in the
shouts of "a republic! a republic!" The alarmed king conceded, tampered
with his own concessions, and at last abdicated. His son and successor
made a great flourish of proclamations and promises, throwing himself
upon the popular sympathy until time enabled him to forswear himself.
The credulous people who believed the oaths of kings, generally paid
afterwards the penalty of their credulity in blood or fetters.

In Saxony there was no harmony between the court and people; the former
were Roman Catholic, and the latter Protestant. The prudence of the
monarch, however, prevailed over the solicitations of his court to treat
his people with disdain, and he saved his throne and his honour.

The King of Hanover was less honest, as well as less compliant, but even
he had to recognise, for the time being, a constitution.

Prussia proper was affected, as well as her less homogeneous provinces,
by the grand convulsion. After a series of conflicts in the streets of
Berlin, order was at last restored, and the constitution modified so as
to satisfy a large portion of the people. The Poles in Posen revolted,
and perpetrated the utmost atrocities, but were put down by the Prussian
troops without obtaining any of the objects for which they so wildly
fought, and so vaguely demanded. The people of Posen had been
practised upon by their own nobles, and incited by their priests.
Their insurrection was one of fanaticism, not of freedom; the revolters
carried the symbols and images of their creed, not the banners of
nationhood before them,--they deserved to fail. Their chief oppressors
were the privileged classes of their own countrymen, from whom the
Prussian government derived no aid in its efforts to meliorate the
condition of the province. Education was resisted, industry discouraged,
and the religious rights of minorities assailed by ignorant and
fanatical mobs. The freedom required in Posen was an emancipation of the
people from their own passions and prejudices.


THE AUSTRIAN EMPIRE.

The revolutionary history of the Austrian empire during the year
1848 was instructive, and full of the most eventful changes and great
results. On another page the progress of affairs in Austrian Italy was
sketched, and the relation of the kasir's interests there to contiguous
Italian states pointed out. The whole empire was, however, convulsed,
and the throes of every part communicated its vibrations to the whole.
The revolt in Hungary constituted the most interesting and important
part of the great transactions which occurred within the limits of the
empire. The government of the kasir succeeded, by exciting the jealousy
of Magyar and German, Croat and Hungarian, metropolitan and provincial,
in holding the difficult balance, and in preserving the empire in its
integrity from the flood which flowed over it with such disintegrating
force.

The revolution in Hungary was completely successful, and Vienna itself
was menaced by a Hungarian army. The heroism of an Englishman, General
Guyon, rendered the greatest military services; and the eloquence and
wisdom of a civilian, Louis Kossuth, guided the aspirations and resolves
of armed Hungary. Ultimately, indeed, by the aid of Russian armies,
the Austrian was enabled once more to tread out the fire of Hungarian
liberty; but 1848 saw the gallant Magyars victorious.

The Viennese, notwithstanding their contiguity to the court and their
close dependence upon the kasir, rose in arms, and obtained an extensive
recognition of those rights which the people everywhere claimed. Those
who by extreme measures and views marred the cause of freedom elsewhere,
did so at Vienna. The socialist element was the ruin of the revolution.
The thinking and the morally sound portions of the citizens were
detached from the popular cause, in and out of Vienna, and the arms of
the emperor finally triumphed over the barricades of the capital.


THE GERMAN CONFEDERATION.

Representatives from all the German states, where successful revolutions
had been effected, assembled in Frankfort to form a closer confederacy
of the German states. The ambition of Prussia and Austria found scope in
this new sphere of action. The Prussian king was desirous to be elected
emperor of Germany, and supposed that the Frankfort parliament would
subserve his purpose. Never did an assembly of men utter finer, noble
principles, than that, nor did any display such utter impracticability.
They occupied the time in visionary schemes, which ought to have
been devoted to secure the liberty of each individual state, and they
sacrificed the interests of nations to the German invidiousness of race.
The socialist party tried to force their own especial objects upon the
assembly, and when unsuccessful, deluged Frankfort with blood. They
followed the policy and conduct of their prototypes, the red republicans
of Paris, in their resistance to the provisional government. The
irreconcilable differences of opinion between the advocates of change
gave kings advantage in the reactionary policy which they meditated
before the year was out.


DENMARK.--SCHLESWIG-HOLSTEIN.

The inhabitants of the duchies revolted against the king of Denmark;
this arose partly from that hatred to all other races characteristic of
the German. The Schleswig-Holsteiners could not endure amalgamation,
or even close alliance with the Scandinavian race, much less with the
Sclaves, should the Emperor of Russia inherit the throne of Denmark. The
people of the duchies were desirous to be identified more with Germany,
and this was, notwithstanding other pretences, the main-spring of the
revolt. The King of Prussia, never true to his engagements, violated
treaties, and marched his troops into the duchies. This dispute was one
with which England might have been involved, as she had certain treaty
obligations which rendered the possibility of such a result the subject
of speculation.


RUSSIA.

The empire of the autocrat was undisturbed, but the revolutionary
feeling seemed ready to invade it on all its European frontier. Large
bodies of troops were gathered in Southern Russia for the purpose of
entering the Turkish Danubian provinces, in order to suppress the spirit
of revolution which there manifested itself, and found vent in a fervent
political agitation. In Poland, also, the czar concentrated a great
army. Warsaw bristled with bayonets; and a diplomatic message was sent
to the court of Berlin, assuring it of the czar's friendly feeling, but
warning it that, in case of any disturbances on the Polish frontier
of Russia, if they were not very promptly suppressed, the Russian
government would take measures to effect the security of its own
frontier. The message amounted to a hint that if a Russian army were
needed by the Prussian monarch, the czar was not unwilling to lend it,
or, if need should exist, he would find a reason, without being asked
for his aid, to cross the frontier, and put down democracy.

The following arrogant presumption of divine right was put forth by the
czar:--

"After the benefits of a long peace, the west of Europe finds itself
at this moment suddenly given over to perturbations which threaten
with ruin and overthrow all legal powers and the whole social system.
Insurrection and anarchy, the offspring of France, soon crossed the
German frontier, and have spread themselves in every direction with an
audacity which has gained new force in proportion to the concessions of
the governments. This devastating plague has at last attacked our allies
the empire of Austria and the kingdom of Prussia, and to-day in its
blind fury menaces even our Russia--that Russia which God has confided
to our care. But Heaven forbid that this should be! Faithful to the
example handed down from our ancestors, having first invoked the aid of
the Omnipotent, we are ready to encounter our enemies from whatever side
they may present themselves, and without sparing our own person we will
know how, indissolubly united to our holy country, to defend the honour
of the Russian name, and the inviolability of our territory. We are
convinced that every Russian, that every one of our faithful subjects,
will respond with joy to the call of his sovereign. Our ancient war-cry,
'For our faith, our sovereign, and our country!' will once again lead us
on the path of victory: and then, with sentiments of humble gratitude,
as now with feelings of holy hope, we will all cry with one voice, 'God
is on our side: understand this, ye peoples, and submit, for God is on
our side.'"

On the whole, England preserved peace with all foreign states during the
rage of this political tempest. Her attitude was morally sublime. The
waves rose, and the hurricane raged around her, but she towered above
the billow and the tempest, her crown bright with the glory which the
sun of liberty shed upon it. The stranger who found a refuge and a home
within her borders, might well offer to her the tribute which the poet
Moore so gracefully inscribed upon the pedestal of her freedom and her
power:--

     "Hail to thee, Albion! that meetest the commotion
     Of Europe, as calm as thy cliffs meet the foam;
     With no bond but the law, and no bound but the ocean,
     Hail, temple of liberty! thou art my home."


IRELAND.

_Famine and Pestilence_.--Frightful as was the state of Ireland in 1847,
it was still worse in the year 1848. Commercial affairs were embarrassed
by so many disturbing circumstances, that public confidence was not
restored throughout the year. The potato disease, agrarian outrage,
Ribbonism, the repeal agitation, and an insurrectionary combination, all
combined to restrict commerce.

The destitution of the people was terrible. It is unnecessary to go
into the details of the horrid story: numbers perished of famine, and
pestilence went forth with devastating fury where hunger had stricken.
The "famine fever" carried away multitudes to an untimely grave. This
disease extended also to the Irish in England. Many in London died of
it, and great numbers in Manchester, but the affliction fell still more
heavily upon Liverpool. Several Roman Catholic clergymen in those towns
fell victims, nor did medical men escape. Efforts continued to be made
by the government, and by voluntary charity, to mitigate the calamities
which befel the country, but their variety and magnitude set at defiance
all the noble efforts that were made, and the exhaustless compassions of
the noble hearts that made them.

_Continuance of Crime and Outrage_.--The story of the two previous years
was the same of this: crime raged everywhere; the hand of the assassin
was constantly uplifted; and woe to the landlord who expelled a tenant
for whatsoever violation of contract, and to the zealous Protestant, lay
or clerical, who claimed a right to discuss his religious opinions, even
in self-defence, or to circulate thera, even in the most inoffensive
manner.

Much of the crime of Ireland was to be attributed to a secret society
which the government never made any adequate efforts to suppress, and
which was commonly called the "Ribbon Society." No means were taken by
the respectable Roman Catholics to break up this exclusively Romanist
confederacy, the chief object of which was the extermination of
Protestants, and it was in 1848 that, in this respect, little was to
be then expected from them. No public protest against the worst and the
wildest of the ultramontane proceedings of previous years had been made
by Roman Catholics, clerical or lay, English or Irish, or of any rank
in life; and the "liberal Roman Catholics," as they liked to be called,
could not be surprised if Protestants began to put no faith in their
liberal professions. Yet this section of the Roman Catholics had gained
much confidence and respect with liberal Protestants in both countries.
It was chiefly on their representations that the once formidable Orange
societies were suppressed, and although these societies changed their
constitution in compliance with the law, yet they never acquired public
confidence after: through the instrumentality of Mr. Hume's exposure
of the dangerous tendency of the confederacy, the law was put in
force against them. The liberal Romanists were accustomed to say that
Ribbonism was, so to say, but the complement of Orangeism; that if
the latter were made illegal, the other would die of itself. This was
believed by the whig and radical parties of the day; and after a
feeble resistance on the part of the Tories, Orangeism was at last
discountenanced by the state, and literally turned out of doors, after
having been used and misused, petted and pampered, for half a century.
Instead, however, of Ribbonism taking a voluntary departure, as lay and
priestly liberal spouters of the popular Roman Catholic party presumed,
it increased in extent, numbers, and virus. Portions of Ireland where
it had previously no footing became the high places of its power;
every town in England where Irish Roman Catholics lived had affiliated
societies formed; London, Manchester, Liverpool, and Lancashire
generally, counted their tens of thousands of sworn enemies to the
English government and name, and to the toleration and even existence
of Protestants. The oaths of the members were again and again revised,
becoming more relentless and blood-thirsty, just as every concession was
made to Roman Catholic demands. As the system of Ribbonism was in 1848,
nothing more bloody and diabolical was ever conceived by lost human
minds. Nothing like it _could_ exist except amongst a people in whose
hearts bigotry had so uprooted all tolerance and charity, that their
ferocity of zealotism would vie with that which an Irish Romanist
described of others:--

     "Men of the saintly murderous brood.
     To carnage and the Koran given,
     Who think, through unbeliever's blood,
     Lies the directest path to heaven."

_Political Agitation_.--The Repeal Association continued its meetings,
and notwithstanding the prevailing distress, considerable sums were
subscribed; some weeks as much as £80 was received. Mr. John O'Connell
presided at those meetings, which were barren of all utility for the
party, and destitute of the eloquence which in the days of O'Connell and
Shiel enlivened and gave importance to public meetings.

The young Ireland party was all activity, and although few of its
orators were really eloquent, there were many of them good speakers,
several who rose to the rank of superior platform address, and one (Mr.
Meagher) of surpassing eloquence. The Young Irelanders, on the whole,
wrote better than they spoke, and very able articles appeared from
their pens in the press, not only in Dublin, but throughout Ireland. The
_Nation_ newspaper, conducted by Charles Gavan Duffy, a man of wonderful
energy and courage, of discriminating literary taste and fine talents,
was perhaps the most ably managed newspaper in the British Isles, so
far as literary claims were concerned. The most passionate and exciting
ballads, full of poetical and patriotic fervour, the most elaborate and
elegantly written dissertations on Ireland, her history, music, poetry,
language, and people, and popularly written and able articles on
politics, filled its columns. Their influence upon the mind of the young
men of Ireland who were of the Roman Catholic persuasion, and of many
Protestants who were too liberal in sentiment to suspect their Roman
Catholic fellow-countrymen of desiring religious ascendancy, was great.
When John Mitchell considered that the _Nation_ had too little sympathy
with red republicanism, he set up a paper called the _Irishman_, which
he made the vehicle of the most outrageous doctrines, political and
social. The leading articles of the _Irishman_ were written by Mr.
Mitchell himself, with a nervous power, eloquence, boldness of thought,
and audacity, which were very extraordinary. These articles were amongst
the ablest specimens of newspaper writing which had ever been known in
Ireland. Their effect was electric; they maddened the young men of the
movement with a fierce spirit of nationality. The clubs read them with
ecstasy, and John Mitchell was the idol and hero of all men of extreme
opinions. His defiance of government, his incitements to rebellion,
were so open and intrepid, that they seized upon the imagination of the
people, and much disturbed the government. Pikes and side-arms were
manufactured in every part of the country, and John Mitchell wrote
various articles on the proper pattern of a pike, on the best way
of using that "queen of weapons," as he termed it, and to prove how
hopeless it would be for either cavalry or infantry, disciplined on the
ordinary system, to face corps of Irish pikemen disciplined on his plan.
These military articles were eminently absurd, and excited the ridicule
of military men; but the style in which they were written was so
admirably adapted to the taste and tone of thought of those whom they
were designed to influence, that they told wonderfully, and inspired
confidence in the clubs and in the country, that means were at last
found by which the trained troops of England could be encountered with a
superior weapon.

Meanwhile the lord-lieutenant of Ireland, the Earl of Clarendon, proved
himself a most vigorous governor. He entered into negotiations with the
Orangemen, who were true to the throne to a man. One hundred and fifty
thousand men of that confederacy, and of the Protestants who held their
principles and sympathised with their party, although not enrolled in
the lodges, were ready to take up arms on the side of the government,
and many stand of arms were to be distributed should necessity arise. A
very large distribution was made, and the Orangemen, and vast number
of other Protestants, were ready to turn out at a moment's notice. The
number at the call of the government were quite sufficient, with a small
body of troops as a point of support, to put down any force the disloyal
could bring into the field. How such men as Mitchell, Meagher, O'Brien,
and Duffey could fail to see that, was extraordinary. They still went
on, talking of Ireland as about to "arise in her majesty and shake
off the English yoke," at a time when a million and a half of Irish
Protestants would have preferred any yoke under heaven to that of their
own Roman Catholic countrymen; and while some of the most papal of the
Roman Catholics themselves had no hope in the movement, no confidence in
the leaders, and a strong conviction that any effort against England was
impracticable, and would lead only to a waste of blood. His excellency
displayed such vigour that, early in the spring, two hundred and eighty
thousand persons, comprising the wealth and intelligence of the country,
signed a document expressive of their confidence. His lordship was
keenly alive, also, to the influence of the press, and subsidised
various papers to oppose the Young Irelanders. He did not display as
much caution in this department of his policy as he did vigour and
sagacity in other directions. He hired a man named Birch, who edited a
paper called the _World_, which was very ably conducted. The terms on
which his excellency put himself with Mr. Birch were discreditable to
the government, and the spirit in which he wrote and acted was insulting
to the country, and when his connection with the Castle became known,
the hands of government were weakened by the circumstance.

The negotiations with Rome were productive of more effect than giving
subsidies to the press, for both sections of the anti-union agitation
did their utmost to gain the priests over to their cause. The priesthood
was, however, suspicious of the Young Irelanders, from the conviction
that they were generally indifferent to religion. This impression was
also received at Rome; and the English government, by its secret agency,
did its best to strengthen that opinion. The pope had sufficient reason
to dread any tendency to red republicanism in any part of the
world where his disciples or subjects might be influenced by it. He
accordingly issued a rescript, which created a powerful sensation
in Ireland. The _Nation_ newspaper, and the press generally which
sympathised with it, denounced the English government, and the English
Roman Catholics, with having, by false representations, induced the pope
to issue this document. The censures fell with especial weight upon the
English Roman Catholic aristocracy, who were believed to have a peculiar
prejudice against Ireland, and in this case to have allowed their
antipathies of race and nationality to interfere with the good of their
religion; for it was alleged that the promotion of agitation, and even
revolution, in Ireland by the priesthood, was the surest way to make
England concessive to the Roman Catholic clergy and people. It was also
maintained that the severance of Ireland from England would give a wider
scope to the influence of the church, and rescue one of her fairest
provinces from the sceptre of a heretic sovereign. These different
grounds were taken up by various organs of the press, according to their
degrees of prudence, or the especial light in which they regarded the
transaction. At all events, it was felt that the rescript would baulk
the efforts of the Young Irelanders to engage any portion of the
priesthood on their side, and greatly lessen the chances of their
success. The Protestants of Ireland, ignorant of the true nature of
the mission of Lord Minto to Italy, which the government organs
systematically misrepresented, and ignorant also of the progress which
the English government had made at Rome, through certain Roman Catholics
of influence, considered the rescript as a _ruse_ on the part of the
pope, acting in concert with the Irish episcopacy, to throw the English
government off its guard. The Protestants were therefore stirred up to
more vigorous preparation to resist the approaching insurrection, while,
at the same time, the hopes of the opposite party were damaged, and
depression was necessarily communicated to their exertions.

The following is a copy of the papal rescript, addressed to the Roman
Catholic prelates of Ireland:--

"_Most Illustrious and Reverend Lord_,--The reports now for nine
months circulated by the English newspapers concerning the political
party-strifes in which some ecclesiatics have allowed themselves to be
carried away, and the desecration made of some of the Irish churches for
the purpose of aiding and promoting secular concerns--nay, more, the
reports which have reached us relative to the murders which we are
informed are so frequent, and by reason of which the clergy have been
stigmatised, and some of them charged with imprudence, and as giving
indirect provocation from the pulpit, or, at least, extenuating the
guilt of these murders--these reports must surely awaken the solicitude
of the sacred congregation.

"This sacred congregation cannot bring itself to believe that such
reports, so extensively raised abroad, can be true; nor can it believe
that ecclesiastics have forgotten that the church of God should be
the house of prayer, not of secular concerns, or the meeting-place
of politicians; neither can the sacred congregation believe that
ecclesiastics have ceased to recollect that they are the ministers of
peace, dispensers of the mysteries of God--men who should not involve
themselves in worldly concerns--in a word, men who should abhor blood
and vengeance. Nevertheless, this sacred congregation deems it its duty
to require certain and satisfactory explanation on all these matters,
that it may know what importance to attach to the abovementioned
damnatory reports. Wherefore, at the suggestion of his holiness, I have
deemed it my duty to forward this letter to your lordship, praying you
to satisfy this most reasonable solicitude of the congregation; and,
meantime, it exhorts you to admonish the clergy, that seeking the things
which are of Jesus Christ, they sedulously apply themselves to watch
over the spiritual interests of the people, and in nowise mix themselves
up with worldly affairs, in order that their ministry may not be brought
into disrepute, and those who are against them may not have wherewith to
charge them.

"I pray God long to preserve your lordship.

"J. Ph. Cardinal Fransoni.

"Rome. From the Congregation of the Faith,

"January 3rd, 1848."


Early in the year the legislature passed stringent laws to suppress
crime and outrage in Ireland, and to bring the perpetrators to justice.
Proceedings were also taken of various kinds against several of the more
prominent promoters of sedition.

On the 15th of May, William Smith O'Brien was tried before Lord Chief
Justice Blackburn and a special jury, upon an _ex officio_ information,
charging him with having delivered a speech, on the 15th of March, in
the parish of St. Thomas, Dublin, for the purpose of exciting contempt
and hatred against the queen in Ireland, and inducing the people to rise
in rebellion. The traverser pleaded not guilty. There could be no doubt
that in point of fact and law he was guilty, for it would be difficult
to cull language from a seditious speech more pertinent to the charge
than that quoted by the attorney-general from the speech of Mr. O'Brien
on the 15th of March. He was ably defended by Mr. Butt, an eloquent
queen's counsel. The jury could not agree, and by the consent of the
attorney-general they were discharged. It was not expected that the
jury would agree in a verdict; there was a determination among the
disaffected that when summoned as jurors they would not give verdicts
in charges of this nature. The government were determined to procure
convictions, if possible, and the trial of Mr. O'Brien was followed by
an indictment of T. E. Meagher. He was also arraigned on an _ex officio_
information for a seditious speech delivered on the same occasion as
that which furnished O'Brien with an opportunity for his delinquent
oratory. When the jury returned into court they were asked if they had
agreed in their verdict; the foreman replied, "We are not, my lord." Mr.
Favel, one of the jurors, remarked, "We are all agreed but one, and he
is a Roman Catholic." The report of this trial produced a very great
sensation in England. Men everywhere remarked, "If a single Roman
Catholic on a jury prevents the course of justice, a remedy must be
found for such a state of things; there must be power accorded to the
crown." It was not generally understood in England that a Roman Catholic
had often little reason to hope for justice when high party Protestants
composed the jury.

In the Commission Court, before Mr. Baron Lefroy, and Mr. Justice Moore,
John Mitchell, proprietor of the _United Irishman_ newspaper, was
placed upon his trial. He had been arrested under the act passed in
the beginning of the year to meet such cases, entitled, "An act for the
better security of the crown and government." True bills were found
by the grand jury against him for felony. To each he handed in a plea
praying that the indictment might be quashed, on the ground that one
of the members of the jury was also a member of the town-council of the
borough of Dublin, and as such disqualified. These pleas were put in
merely to gain time, which led the attorneygeneral to enter a _nolle
prosequi_ to each, and to file ex officio information against Mr.
Mitchell. After various other artifices to obtain delay, the prisoner
was compelled to plead, and he pleaded "not guilty." The terms of the
indictment were, that the traverser endeavoured to take away the style,
honour, and royal name of our sovereign lady the queen, and to make war
against her majesty, her heirs, and successors. The trial was chiefly
remarkable for the bold and manly tone of Mr. Holmes, the prisoner's
counsel. Never did an advocate more fearlessly do his duty to his client
and his country. The judge charged against the prisoner, and the jury,
after three hours and a half's deliberation, returned with a verdict of
guilty. The sentence was transportation for fourteen years. The bearing
of the prisoner was manly and dignified throughout. He was known to be
a man of strong domestic affections, and of warm friendship, and the
sentence was received with intense dissatisfaction throughout Ireland.
The violent opinions and proceedings of Mr. Mitchell in his public
capacity could not destroy the popular partialities for him as a brave,
generous, and amiable man; it was allowed on all hands that the time
had arrived for stopping his political career, but it was hoped that
a temporary imprisonment would have satisfied the ends of justice. The
public sympathy for his amiable wife and his little children was very
strong, and it was desired by all classes that at the earliest possible
occasion which would give the government an opportunity to exercise
clemency, his sentence might be greatly mitigated.

It was allowed on all hands that the government were compelled to
prosecute. In the pages of the _United Irishman_ he had uttered the
most vehement defiance to the government, and to the lord-lieutenant
of Ireland especially. He had invoked a prosecution, and in one furious
article in the _United Irishman_ had told the viceregal government that
if it did not pack a jury and prosecute him, it was restrained only by
cowardice. What the motives of Mr. Mitchell were in thus wishing to be
made a victim it is impossible to affirm. Many believed that he wrote
in the confidence that no Irish jury, however packed, would find him
guilty; others supposed that he calculated upon a packed jury finding a
verdict against him, but that he felt sure of a popular revolt for his
rescue, and thus desired to precipitate the insurrection. A large
class of persons who did not sympathise with his doctrines and efforts,
alleged that, foreseeing the utter hopelessness of the cause upon which
he had embarked, he desired to bring matters as regarded himself at
once to a conclusion, and as he could not withdraw with honour from the
course he had espoused, he was anxious to incur the lesser penalty for
sedition, than to risk encounter with the queen's forces as the leader
of a bootless insurrection. His sentence was rapidly carried out, the
populace making no effort to save him. The leaders found various excuses
for not at once rising, and Mitchell was carried ignominiously away,
and departed before their eyes, not an arm raised, not a blow struck by
those who vehemently cheered him in his career of folly, and promised to
follow him to the death.

During and immediately previous to these transactions, the Repeal
Association and the Young Irelanders made a great parade, after their
own fashion, for their own ostensible objects. The Young Irelanders
called a convention of three hundred representatives or delegates
from every part of the country; these were, in fact, to be the
representatives of the insurrectionary clubs, ostensibly of the people.
Smith O'Brien, the last time he appeared in the English House of
Commons, had the temerity and absurdity to advise the premier to put
himself in communication with this council of three hundred, and
be guided in his measures by them. This was after the visit of the
honourable member to Paris, to induce the French government to espouse
the cause of insurrection in Ireland. His recommendation was received
with shouts of derisive laughter, and his treason was chastised by the
premier reminding him that he had taken the oath of allegiance, and at
the same time was encompassing the dishonour of the queen's throne.

At a meeting of the Old Irelanders in April, in Conciliation Hall, a Mr.
Aikins in the chair, the following business was transacted, which will
show the position which that party desired publicly to take both to the
Young Irelanders and to the government:--

"Mr. Maurice O'Connell proposed, and Mr. T. Galway seconded, the
following resolutions, which were unanimously adopted:--'That we, this
association, view with disgust and indignation the bill brought in by
the ministers, entitled, A bill for the better security of the crown and
government of the United Kingdom. That we consider such bill, instead
of answering its professed purposes, to be of such a character as the
odious six acts of Lord Castlereagh's ministry, with the aggravation
that the latter were only legal and temporary, while this is intended as
general and perpetual. That we consider such bill as in fact a bill to
encourage the odious spy system, and prevent all discussion of the wants
of the people, whether by the press or at meetings. That we therefore
express our detestation of this measure, and call upon the repeal
members of parliament to oppose the passing of such bill by all
constitutional means.'

"Mr. O'Connell next proposed, and Mr. Galway seconded, a resolution, that
it be referred to the committee to have a case prepared for counsel
upon the construction of the convention act, 33 George HI., cap. 29. Mr.
O'Connell observed that although his father had not matured the project
of assembling three hundred delegates in Dublin, he had never abandoned
it up to the period of his death. (Cheers.) 'The liberator' had
frequently consulted lawyers of great celebrity, to fortify his own
opinion, but the result of his consultation with others was that he had
grave and fearful doubts as to its legality. The project was accordingly
suffered to remain in abeyance. They were determined never to advise
or sanction any rash or precipitate act; they would act only within the
law, and were anxious to ascertain whether the delegates could assemble
legally in Dublin. This was the object of obtaining counsel's opinion
upon the subject; and if the step could be taken with safety, and within
the bounds of law, in the name of God they would take it. (Cheers.)

"Mr. O'Connell called the attention of the association to a resolution
adopted at the last meeting of the Confederation, admitting 'to
membership all enrolled members of the Conciliation Hall, on the same
ternis as members of the Confederation.' It was also intimated that
seats would be reserved at the meeting of the Confederation for
the accommodation of the members of Conciliation Hall. Now he (Mr.
O'Connell) wished to warn every member of the association against
accepting that invitation, or making use of the privileges (if
privileges they were) thus offered by the Confederation. (Hear, hear.)
The safety of the association consisted entirely in keeping strictly
within the letter of the law, and he hoped none of its members would
directly or indirectly sanction or identify themselves with any of the
proceedings of the Confederation."

The Orangemen, as a body, also took active measures. They addressed a
memorial to the lord-lieutenant, protesting their loyalty, and offering
their support.. Their assistance was accepted, arms were distributed
to them, and there is no doubt they would have been bravely used on the
side of the government. A knowledge that the Orangemen were arming in
support of the crown, tended very much to depress the hopes and check
the actions of the seditious. The rifle clubs adopted ball-practice, it
is true, but they confined their shooting to the precincts of the clubs.
When a petty insurrection did break forth, not a shot was fired by the
clubs, after so much preparation on their part, and so much expenditure
of eloquence in boasting of their bravery, and eagerness for the field.

The transportation of John Mitchell did not extinguish the zeal of the
insurgent press. The _United Irishman_ was suppressed, to resume a
new life under the title of the _Felon_, which was as true to its
designation as treason could make it. A paper called the _Irish
Tribune_ vied with the _Felon_ and the _Nation_, in open incentives to
insurrection.

It was the policy of the leaders to wait until the harvest was gathered,
and this was openly proclaimed by them, which enabled the government
more effectually to frustrate their schemes. The editor of the _Felon_
counselled the people, however, to resist if their leaders were
arrested, even if the harvest were not reaped. "After harvest if we may;
before harvest if we must," was the counsel of this authority, and the
general tenour of the advice given by all the chiefs. The government,
upon these indications, took vigorous measures to enable the
lord-lieutenant by extraordinary power to suppress or prevent any
revolt; the _Habeas Corpus_ Act was suspended, and it was left to the
discretion of his lordship to call out the Protestant yeomanry of the
north of Ireland.

The House of Commons having assembled on Saturday, the 22nd of July, for
a sitting at noon, Lord John Russell rose, amidst profound silence, and
proposed a motion of the most important character: a relation of the
circumstance is introduced here, rather than in the parliamentary
history of the year, because it places in a clearer view the progress of
the Irish insurrection, and the government policy in respect to it. His
lordship, after a pause in which he betrayed considerable emotion, moved
for leave to bring in a bill to empower the lord-lieutenant, or other
chief governor or governors of Ireland, to apprehend and detain,
until the first of March, 1849, such persons as he should suspect of
conspiring against her majesty's person and government. The noble lord
having expressed his deep regret at being compelled to suspend the
constitutional liberties of Ireland, and declared that, in his opinion,
such a measure was absolutely necessary for the preservation of life and
property in Ireland, for the prevention of the effusion of blood, and
for the stopping of insurrection, proceeded to state the grounds upon
which he rested his proposition. He considered it would be necessary for
him to prove three things:--First that the present state of things in
Ireland was fraught with evil; that it threatened danger; that we were
on the eve of an outbreak, if not timely prevented. Secondly, that there
were means sufficient to produce great evils and dangers unless some
measures should be adopted to counteract them. Thirdly, that the measure
he proposed was the most appropriate for its purpose. He did not propose
to rest his case on any secret information known only to the government;
but he would rest it on facts patent, notorious, and palpable. He then
traced the history of the Irish Confederation, establishing, from the
manifestoes published in the _Felon_ and _Nation_ newspapers, that the
determination of these confederates was to entirely abolish the imperial
government; to take away from the queen all authority in Ireland; to
annihilate all the rights of property; to hold up the hope of plunder to
those who would break their oaths of allegiance and join in rebellion;
and to hold up the threat of depriving all those of their property
who would remain fast to their allegiance, and refuse to assist in the
insurrection. One of these manifestoes, entitled, "The Value of the
Irish Harvest," set forth that there was growing on the Irish soil
eighty millions of produce, and declared that it would be for the new
Irish Council of Three Hundred to decide how this produce should be
apportioned: thus showing that, by one sweeping confiscation, the
masters of this red republic were prepared to disregard all existing
social rules, and to reduce everything to anarchy. The noble lord then
described the means of effecting their treasonable objects possessed by
the confederates. All the intelligence received by the government proved
that the organisation of the clubs was formidable, that it was rapidly
progressing, and that in many parts of the country the plans of the
associates were ripe for execution. He adduced the accounts obtained
from Tipperary, Meath, Louth, Cork, Waterford, and other counties, as
evidence of the formidable nature of the organisation of the insurgents;
the information received from all quarters, and the opinions obtained
from various persons, being to the one effect, that though persons of
property and the clergy of all denominations were decidedly against an
outbreak, no influence would have any effect in deterring many thousands
of the younger men, especially of the farmer class, from joining in the
proposed insurrection; in fact, nothing was now wanting but the naming
of the day and hour, to be fixed by the leaders, for carrying into
effect this fatal revolution. The noble lord quoted a letter received
that day from Lord Clarendon, in which the lord-lieutenant stated
that the aspect of things was growing worse, and that the increasing
disloyalty, on the part of the Irish people, was most rapid within the
last few days. It might be necessary, he said, to introduce a measure
for the prevention of the organisation of clubs, but the first, the most
direct, the immediate and efficacious remedy for the existing evil would
be the suspension of the _Habeas Corpus_ Act--a power to be given to the
lord-lieutenant of at once securing the persons of those suspected of
high treason. The government might have been justified in demanding
this power at an earlier period, but they delayed it as long as it was
possible. He implored the house, if their conviction was this measure
should pass, to lose no time in arming the lord-lieutenant with the
power requisite. Without it, rebellion could undoubtedly be put down,
but it would be at the expense of blood--at the cost of much misery and
ruin. No man could say what the consequence of withholding these powers
even for a day would be. The government undertook the responsibility,
however odious it might be, of proposing this measure; and they
confidently asked the house to accept their responsibility, mindful of
the blessings they would preserve, and aware of the risks they might
incur.

A petition was presented to the house from the mayor and leading
merchants of Liverpool, expressing gratitude for this measure, and
declaring the apprehensions entertained from the active communications
passing between the disaffected in Ireland and the large Irish
population in Liverpool. In all the great towns of Lancashire sympathy
with Ireland was expressed, and threats were made of firing the
manufactories and the merchants' stores, to prevent the dispatch of
troops to that country. A Mr. MacManus, a trader in Liverpool, was the
most prominent person among the disaffected in Lancashire. This person
procured a beautiful uniform of green and gold, and proceeded to
Ireland, expecting to appear on the field of action as an extempore
commander. The police were on his track, and he was arrested, with
all his military finery, and committed to prison, without even having
signalised himself in command of a corporal's guard of pikemen. Mr.
MacManus was an honest man to the cause to which his whole heart was
given. The night before he left for Ireland, he slept at the house of
a merchant in Manchester, named Porteus; that gentleman used all his
influence to dissuade his friend from so mad an exploit, but in vain.
The embryo chief left a considerable store of pistols in the custody of
Mr. Porteus, which were delivered to the chief constable of Manchester.

The vigorous proceedings of the executive, both in England and Ireland,
compelled the Irish leaders, without waiting for the harvest, to
decide upon a course of action. Their first project was to seize the
metropolis. It was garrisoned by about twelve thousand men--a small
force, had there been unanimity and determination on the part of the
Irish people; but the leaders were obliged to fly to the provinces, or
conceal themselves, in order to avoid arrest; and, in fact, they felt
that the fortitude of the clubs could not be relied upon for so bold an
enterprise. After all their preparations and their boasting, the
members of the clubs--their chief reliance--were too few in number, and
inadequately armed for such an exploit.

The project was then adopted for the leaders to repair to those parts of
the country where the clubs were most numerous, and supposed to be most
resolute, and there proceed with their organisation until the government
attempted to arrest them, when the clubs were to rise for their rescue.
It was supposed that the excitement produced by the arrest of the
leaders was necessary to inflame the enthusiasm of the populace. How
little did they know the real feelings of the multitude upon whose
generosity and manhood they thus adventurously threw themselves!

On the 26th, the _Habeas Corpus_ Suspension Act arrived in Dublin, and
warrants were issued for the arrest of all the club leaders. Troops were
moved upon the principal points where it was desirable, for strategetic
and political purposes, to concentrate them. Extraordinary precautions
were taken for the capital. Sir Charles Napier was placed in command
of a powerful steam squadron on the southern coast, Cork and Waterford
being especially menaced by the guns' of the ships. A proclamation was
issued by the viceroy declaring the clubs illegal, and "commanding all
persons to withdraw from and abandon the same." On the last day of July,
the privy council held a sitting at Dublin Castle, when it was resolved
to place a number of baronies and counties under the Prevention of Crime
and Outrage Act. By this means opportunity would be most easily taken
to disarm the rebels. The districts put under the stern surveillance of
this law were the counties of Kerry, Wexford, Carlow, Queen's County,
counties of Galway, Kildare, Wicklow, Westmeath, Louth; seven baronies
of the county Cork, eight baronies in the King's county, four baronies
in the county of Cavan, two baronies in the county Armagh, and the
barony of Newry, county Down. Proclamations of reward were also offered
for the arrest of Smith O'Brien, £500; for Francis T. Meagher, John B.
Dillon, and Michael Doheny, "each or either," £300. The ground assigned
for the arrest was "having taken up arms against her majesty."

The _Hue and Cry_ gave the following descriptions of the personal
appearance, ages, &c, of the leaders:--"William Smith O'Brien, no
occupation, forty-six years of age, six feet in height, sandy hair,
dark eyes, sallow long face, has a sneering smile constantly upon his
countenance, full whiskers, sandy, a little grey. A well set man,
walks erect, and dresses well.--Thomas Francis Meagher, no occupation,
twenty-five years of age, five feet nine inches, dark, nearly black
hair, light blue eyes, pale face, high cheek bones, peculiar expression
about the eyes, cocked nose, no whiskers, well dressed.--John B. Dillon,
barrister, thirty-two years of age, five feet eleven inches in height,
dark hair, dark eyes, thin sallow face, rather thin black whiskers,
dressed respectably, has a bilious look.--Michael Doheny, barrister,
forty years of age, five feet eight inches in height, sandy hair, grey
eyes, coarse, red face, like a man given to drink, high cheek bones,
wants several of his teeth, very vulgar appearance, peculiar coarse,
unpleasant voice, dress respectable, small short red whiskers.--Richard
O'Gorman, junior, barrister, thirty years of age, five feet eleven
inches in height, very dark hair, dark eyes, thin long face, large dark
whiskers, well-made and active, walks upright, dress black frock
coat, tweed trowsers.--Thomas Davy M'Ghee, connected with the _Nation_
newspaper, twenty-three years of age, five feet three inches in height,
black hair, dark face, delicate, pale, thin man; generally dresses in
black shooting coat, plaid trowsers, and thin vest.--Thomas Devin Keily,
sub-editor of the _Felon_ newspaper, twenty-four years of age, five feet
seven inches in height, sandy, coarse hair, grey eyes, round freckled
face, head remarkably broad at the top, broad shoulders, well set,
dresses well."

The peculiar personal appearance of the men who comprised, with a few
others, those who fomented the insurgent feeling in Ireland is of some
interest for the page of history, especially of contemporaneous
history. The delineation was faithful, and aided very much in rendering
concealment difficult, for it prevented the timid from affording shelter
to the chiefs as soon as they became fugitives. For the masses, this
minute description had an alarming appearance, as if government were
well informed of its enemies.

At last the period arrived for the struggle, if ever it was to be made,
and contemporaneous with the projected outbursts, movements were made
by the Irish residents in Great Britain, the Chartists sympathising
with them. The last week of July was especially an anxious period in
Lancashire. The chief danger was apprehended in Manchester, but the only
occurrence was a demonstration of the clubs, which was made on Tuesday
evening, the 26th:--"The members of the several confederate clubs met in
their respective club-rooms, and proceeded thence, about nine o'clock,
in military order, to a large space of vacant ground adjoining the new
Roman Catholic chapel, on the Cheetham Hill Boad. The number present
was very great. No speech was delivered, but three cheers were given
for 'the cause,' immediately after which the assembly dispersed.
The intention of holding the meeting having been made known to the
authorities, steps were taken to prevent any disorder."

In Liverpool, and on the opposite side of the Mersey at Birkenhead, it
was necessary to resort to very extraordinary precautions. The following
extracts from letters written from these places at that time, describe a
state of considerable apprehension in the public mind, and the necessity
of great exertions to intimidate the Irish population:--"There being
reason to apprehend a movement in Liverpool, to act as a diversion
in favour of the insurgents, should a rising take place in Ireland,
preparations are accordingly being made by our local authorities to
guard against a surprise. From the Liverpool papers of Tuesday we learn
that twenty thousand special constables have been sworn in in the several
wards of that town. Steps have also been taken to organise the corps and
to appoint leaders. A place of rendezvous has been taken in each ward,
and there a guard is placed night and day, to give the alarm, should the
necessity for so doing arise. About one thousand men belonging to
the dock works have been sworn in, and amply provided with formidable
weapons, and all the public buildings in the town are guarded day and
night. There can be no doubt, it is stated, that confederate clubs are
being formed in Liverpool, for the avowed purpose of aiding the people
of Ireland in any insurrectionary movements which may be originated.
The idea is, that by rising in Liverpool, Glasgow, and other places,
whenever a rebellion breaks out in Ireland, troops, instead of being
sent across the water, will be kept at home to put down disturbances,
and thus the forces of the government in Ireland will be considerably
weakened. It is stated that clubs to the number of fifty have been
established in the former town--that they number one hundred men each.
The subscription of each member is 1s. a-week. The money is spent in the
purchase of fire-arms, the general price being about 12s. 6d. a-piece.
Every night for the payment of subscriptions, a raffle takes place
for the muskets, which the members are enabled to procure with the
subscriptions. Several arrests have taken place; and it is hoped that
the bold front displayed by the authorities will have the effect of
preventing the contemplated outbreak. It may be stated here, as a
circumstance showing how much on the alert are those who are endeavouring
to repress the rebellious movements of the disaffected, that information
was received yesterday morning by the authorities, that two sons of
Hyland, the notorious pike-maker of Dublin, arrived from that city in
Liverpool on Monday last. The magistrates of Birkenhead have requested
the inhabitants of that town 'to act as special constables for six
months.' A summons, signed by four magistrates--Colonel Gregg, Mr.
W. Hall, Mr. J. W. Harden, and Mr. J. S. Jackson--was served to every
householder, requiring them to attend on Monday at the Town Hall
and take the necessary oath, and by half-past ten every respectable
inhabitant was sworn. Accompanying the summons was a notice, signed by
Messrs. Townsend and Kent, clerics to the magistrates, informing the
parties that 'by disobedience to the precept a penalty of £5 would be
incurred.'"

On the 27th the London _Times_ contained the following startling
telegraphic communication, which caused the funds to fall, and created
alarm throughout the provinces:--

"The whole of the south of Ireland is in rebellion.

"The station at Thurles is on fire, the rails for several miles torn up,
and the mob intend detaining the engines as they arrive.

"At Clonmel the fighting is dreadful. The people arrived in masses. The
Dublin club leaders are there. The troops were speedily overpowered;
many refused to act.

"The military at Carrick have shown disaffection, and have been driven
back, and their quarters fired.

"At Kilkenny the contest is proceeding, and here the mob are also said
to be successful.

"No news from Waterford or Cork."

The writer of this History was in Dublin at that time, and remembers the
city being thrown into a state of great excitement by the foregoing
intelligence. The alarm was, however, of short duration, as the citizens
of the Irish capital were better acquainted with the disposition of the
people, and the probability of their sustaining a close contest with the
troops. Besides, there existed confidence in the loyalty of the police,
whether Roman Catholic or Protestant. An incident occurred in Dublin
which greatly strengthened that confidence; it was thus related in the
papers of the day:--"A policeman who attempted to arrest three of the
club-men, who were armed, was stabbed in several places, and now lies
dangerously wounded at Mercer's hospital. The brave fellow never let go
his grasp of two of the fellows, and they and a third are in custody,
and will, no doubt, be indicted capitally at the next commission. The
unfortunate constable (Byrne) at first, on being submitted to medical
treatment, continued for some time to improve, but fever having set in,
it was deemed advisable for him to make a declaration, and the
magistrate on Thursday repaired to the hospital for that purpose."

Happily the telegraphic communication was found to be false; it was
managed by persons in the interest of the insurrection, in order to
spread alarm, to magnify the undertaking, and drive many of the Irish
people, both in Ireland and Great Britain, to join the confederacy. But
while the startling tidings of the telegraph were false, other news,
authentic and very alarming, reached London concerning the movements of
the insurrectionary chiefs, and the reception which they met with from
the people. The following piece of correct intelligence influenced
the funds, and produced a considerable degree of anxiety in the public
mind:--

"On Sunday evening, July 23rd, Smith O'Brien and Thomas Francis Meagher
reached Carrick-on-Suir at halfpast five in the evening from Kilkenny.
On their route, at Gallan, they addressed thousands, and told them
for the present not to interfere with the police or soldiery, as they
performed their duties, but when the word should be given, not to spare
any who opposed them. Monday being fair-day at Carrick, the town was
filled with country people, and Messrs. Meagher and O'Brien addressed
the people in a more violent and determined strain than heretofore,
stating their determination not to be arrested under the provisions
of the new act. Both gentlemen were armed with pistols, which they are
determined to use in the event of an attempt being made to capture them;
they stated that they had spent their fortunes in the people's cause,
and would hazard their lives for their service, and would now throw
themselves on the protection of the people. A number of Waterford men,
who were at Carrick doing business at the fair, begged of Mr. Meagher to
come to Waterford, alleging that his fellow-citizens would protect him
from arrest; but Mr. Smith O'Brien would not listen to that proposal,
and brought off Mr. Meagher to Cashel, or, as others said, to Tipperary.
Whilst this scene was enacting, two hundred of the 3rd Buffs marched in
from the camp at Besborough, and took up their position in the barracks.
Few of either party slept during the night; the Young Irelanders,
however, did not do anything to disturb the peace of the town, but
business is totally at a stand-still, and all in and about the town are
resting on their arms, waiting for the battle hour. In Waterford the
clubs are described as being well organised, and armed, and ready to
act when called upon. The people seemed reckless from poverty; groups
of workingmen might be seen in the streets by day and night, discussing
politics and retailing the news of the hour. The queen's forces
in Waterford were about one thousand strong. The _Rhadamanthus_
steam-vessel was in the river, and it was proposed to form two camps
on the hills which command the town. In the country the peasants were
arming; at Coolnamuck so much timber had been cut down for pike-handles,
that the clubs would not allow any more to be taken thence, in
compassion to the proprietor. At Mount Bolton the owner had it cut and
left outside the wood for the people, to prevent further waste; at Lord
Waterford's demesne more ash-trees had been cut down, and the useless
parts left behind. All the anvils in the country ring with pike-forging,
and every weapon is put in order for the fray."

The effect upon the government, the legislature, and the country, of
the electric telegraph and other communications, false and true, may be
judged of by the readers of these pages from the following speech by
Sir George Grey, the home-secretary in the House of Commons, on Thursday
evening, the 27th. Sir George had been questioned on this subject, and
thus replied:--

"I have great satisfaction in stating that I have every reason to
believe that the alarming accounts which have appeared in the later
editions of the morning papers, and which were transmitted this
morning from Liverpool by the electric telegraph, to the effect that
insurrection had actually broken out in the south of Ireland, are
totally destitute of truth. Sir, on receiving the copy of the paper
containing the intelligence said to have been sent from Liverpool
this morning, I dispatched a letter to the honourable member for
Stoke-upon-Trent, to induce him to forward a communication by the
electric telegraph to the mayor of Liverpool, requesting to know from
him what information had been received in Liverpool from Ireland, and
I received a despatch from that functionary, by the electric telegraph,
stating that the information published this morning was accompanied from
Ireland by a letter, dated Dublin, Wednesday evening, which represented
that Mr. Conway, of the _Dublin Evening Post_, had received from the
Castle a most dreadful rumour, which he was about to publish in a second
edition of that paper. The writer then went on to say, that he took
advantage of our queen's messenger going off at the moment for London,
to forward the intelligence in a parcel to Messrs. Willmer and Smith,
of Liverpool, who, no doubt, would transmit it to London by the electric
telegraph. The mayor of Liverpool, about an hour after this, further
communicated to me that he is perfectly satisfied that the Irish
intelligence, contained in the paragraph published in the morning
papers, is utterly untrue, unless government have received a despatch
from Lord Clarendon, confirming it. He also states that a queen's
messenger certainly had arrived from Dublin by a steamer this morning,
and he left Liverpool by the half-past six express train. Now, it is
perfectly true that a queen's messenger was dispatched from Dublin last
night. I had sent him over with a despatch, stating that the bill for
suspending the Habeas Corpus Act had received the royal assent, and he
left Dublin with a despatch from the lord-lieutenant yesterday evening,
and arrived in London by the express train this morning by half-past one
o'clock. This despatch certainly describes the state of the country in
the neighbourhood of Clonmel, Carrick, and Thurles to be dreadful, but
in relation to any actual outbreak it is perfectly silent, and makes no
mention whatever. I have seen the messenger, and he states that he
left Dublin at three o'clock yesterday afternoon, but he assures me he
brought no parcel or letter for any party whatever. The messenger is
stated to have come over by a special steamer from Kingston yesterday,
that he started at three o'clock by the steamer which was reported to
have had the queen's messenger on board. Now, no queen's messenger
came over in that steamer; but I have received letters from the
lord-lieutenant, written after the departure of the queen's messenger
yesterday afternoon, which contain no allusion to those frightful
accounts. I am also assured by an hon. member that the hon. gentleman
the member for Totness left Dublin yesterday by the steamer which leaves
at seven o'clock, and that everything was tranquil when he left--that no
rumour of the kind had reached his ears when the steamer left the port.
I will only add that I certainly shall endeavour to trace the wilful
originator of the report. I have now given all the information in my
power, and it enables me to concur with the honourable gentleman that
these reports were fabricated for a wicked and malicious purpose. With
respect to the state of Ireland, I may only add, that by the letters
which I have received from the lord-lieutenant, it appears that Sir
Charles Napier had arrived at Cork with his squadron, with an able and
ample body of troops, who, I am sure, are always ready to discharge
their duty with unflinching bravery, and who are, therefore, entirely
free from the imputations which the reports circulated this day have
unfoundedly cast upon them."

Lord Lansdowne was also questioned in the House of Lords, and made
a similar reply, when the Marquis of Londonderry, in a very spirited
maimer and amidst the applause of the house, inculpated the government
for allowing the agitation in Ireland to rise to such a head, arguing
that had the seditious writing, speaking, and acting of the confederates
been timely prevented, the law would have been vindicated, public peace
and order undisturbed, and many thousands of poor deluded men would have
been saved from wandering after the _ignis fatuus_ of the Confederation.
This philippic was well deserved by the government; had they really
desired that the pear should ripen before they plucked it, they could
not have proceeded otherwise than they did. The insurrection might have
been crushed in the bud had the government exercised proper wisdom
and firmness. It will scarcely be believed that during these exciting
transactions, any member of the legislature would have the folly to
introduce measures for repealing the union or holding parliaments in
Ireland. There were, however, such persons: Fergus O'Connor and John
O'Connell repeatedly advocated repeal, and Mr. R. M. Fox gave notice
of a motion for holding a parliament in Ireland, which, on the 26th,
he withdrew, amidst the derisive laughter of the house, the honourable
member assuring it that he deprecated the union of repealers and
republicans in Ireland. The government and the legislature were very
much strengthened by the support which the executive received from
Sir Robert Peel. In one of the debates upon the political condition of
Ireland during that memorable week, Sir Robert, with great warmth and
energy of manner, said, "He was prepared to give his unqualified support
to the government. He trusted in the veracity of the ministers when
they stated that the conspiracy was wide-spread and imminent, and he
was ready to take his part with the crown against those mock kings of
Munster of whom they had heard, and against those conspirators who
were working to substitute for the mild sway of her majesty a cruel
and sanguinary despotism. There was now no excuse for further delay in
coping with the Irish traitors, and he for one was prepared to consent
to the suspension of all the forms of the house in order to the speedy
passing of this bill; and if additional powers should be required, he
trusted the government would not hesitate a moment in bringing them
forward. Having referred to the results of revolution on the continent,
the right honourable gentleman concluded by reiterating his conviction
that the throne of this country was firmer than ever fixed in the hearts
and affections of the people."

The Roman Catholic clergy were never favourable to the Young Ireland
party. They desired the repeal of the union, and even the entire
separation of the two countries; but they had no confidence in the
ringleaders of the Confederation, because, in their opinion, some
were sceptics, and some heretics, and all men of a judgment below the
undertaking: of this a considerable body of the clergymen of the Romish
church in Ireland were well competent to judge; they knew the feelings
of the people better than any other class of men did, and in their own
ranks were numbered a great many men of high attainments and superior
intellect. Some of the very old clergymen in the south, who remembered
the great insurrection at the close of the last century, and the
sufferings which the people experienced, spared no efforts of persuasion
and moral influence to prevent a like occurrence, while some of the
younger and more active clergymen literally horsewhipped the people to
their homes who had turned out. But for these efforts of the priests,
there would have been an insurrection of some force; and had the priests
given it active encouragement, a wide-spread and sanguinary rebellion
must have ensued. Lord Glengall declared in his place in the House of
Lords that the country was much indebted to the Roman Catholic priests
for the preservation of the peace. The general discontent of the people,
and their disloyalty to the throne, had been, however, much perverted by
the bigoted spirit and inflammatory harangues of their teachers.

After vain attempts to rouse the people to turn out, Mr. O'Brien, with
persistence and courage worthy of any cause, placed himself at the
head of a mob of a few hundred peasants and labourers, and without any
well-poised aim or determinate plan of action, proclaimed open revolt
against the queen's government. On the 29th of July he appeared as the
leader of this hopeless corps, to make war against the mightiest empire
in the world. He was, however, compelled to resort to some decisive
measure by the proclamations of reward offered for his arrest, and by
the efforts which were put forth immediately upon the proclamations
having been posted up. Kilkenny was one of the principal _foci_ of the
strength of the confederates, and O'Brien seems to have relied mainly
upon the men of Kilkenny and Tipperary.

While O'Brien, Meagher, and a few others were mustering their poor
forces, others of the leaders appear not to have taken very much
precaution against arrest. Charles Gavan Duffy was taken early in July,
so was Doheny, and several more of the most boisterous of the club
chiefs. Mr. Blake, the county inspector of constabulary in Kilkenny,
arriving at Harley Park, discovered that O'Brien and his forces were
quartered among the colliers of Boulagh, within a mile of Ballingarry.
He immediately sent to Callan, where the constabulary of the district
had been concentrated for some days, to avoid being attacked in small
parties by the populace. Nearly sixty men left Callan, under Inspector
Trant. Mr. Blake sent to Kilkenny, and other military positions, for
troops, which were dispatched so as to surround the neighbourhood where
the confederates had mustered. The country people soon communicated to
Smith O'Brien and his followers these facts; and Mr. O'Brien thereupon
reviewed his force, consisting of colliers and peasants, variously
armed. They all promised faithfully to stand by him. While thus engaged,
Inspector Trant and his police detachment were seen approaching from
Ballingarry, and the insurgents, numbering twenty to one, dashed forward
to meet them. The police perceiving the disparity of force, made for a
farm-house known as the widow M'Cormack's. The mob broke their array,
and rushed also to seize the house; but the police were first there,
and barricaded it with the furniture and such other materials as were
at hand. Mr. O'Brien parleyed with the police, shaking hands with them
through the lower windows, and used every persuasion to induce them to
deliver up their arms, which of course they refused. The peasants and
colliers then directed showers of stones against the doors and windows,
and also opened a fire of small arms from an outhouse. This was replied
to by the police, who killed several and wounded many others. O'Brien
was perfectly incompetent to give any useful direction, and his men
began to retire before the sharp practice from the fire-arms of the
police, when at last the latter, advancing under cover of some low walls
and haystacks, drove the crowd from the neighbourhood, O'Brien escaping
on the inspector's horse. Neither skill nor courage was shown by the
assailants. O'Brien's conduct has been criticised with much severity on
this occasion; but it is false to represent him as having acted without
spirit; he, of course, in giving directions to his party, placed himself
where he might best do so, and avoid the aim of the police; but if he or
his followers had been fit for the work they had undertaken, they would
either have stormed the house or retired in order; and, possessing so
intimate a knowledge of the country, they might have evaded the armed
parties in pursuit, until, with increased numbers, they had fallen upon
some place of arms which they would have made their _point d'appui_. As
it was, their proceedings were ludicrous, and afforded subject-matter
for _Punch_, which contained a caricature representing an army of Irish
rebels scared by the shadow of a policeman. There can be no doubt that
O'Brien would have dared anything which a sense of duty and honour
dictated, and which opportunity afforded; but to lead an insurrection
was a task utterly beyond his capacity. It is difficult to believe that
the more crafty of the confederates were sincere in the language they
employed in inciting him to the preposterous acts in which he took part.
For instance, a letter written by Charles Gavan Duffy was found in Smith
O'Brien's portmanteau after his arrest, which contained the following
absurdly eulogistic incitement to place himself in the foreground of the
revolt:--

"There is no halfway house for you. You will be the head of the
movement, loyally obeyed, and the revolution will be conducted with
order and clemency; or the mere anarchists will prevail with the
people, and our revolution will be a bloody chaos. You have at present
Lafayette's place, so graphically painted by Lamartine; and I believe
have fallen into Lafayette's error--that of not using it to all its
extent, and in all its resources. I am perfectly well aware that you
don't desire to lead or influence others; but I believe, with Lamartine,
that that feeling which is a high personal and civic virtue, is a vice
in revolutions. If I were Smith O'Brien, I would strike out in my
own mind, or with such counsel as I valued, a definite course for the
revolution, and labour incessantly to develop it in that way."

Had Mr. Duffy desired to precipitate a weak man--the leader of other
weak men--into certain ruin, these extracts, and the letter from which
they are taken, would be perfectly consistent and intelligible. Had
Mr. Duffy himself been quite sure of escape, by some means, from the
consequences of insurrection, and had he desired to aid the government
in bringing the disaffection existing into actual maturity, such a mode
of addressing the proud, brave, and honest man to whom he wrote, would
be rational; but with the clergy and gentry of all sects in Ireland
adverse to any such movement, and with a fourth at least of all
the other classes in Ireland, except the mere peasantry, equally
hostile,--while many of those favourable to the Confederation were
afraid to move hand or foot in its behalf,--such a letter, written by
a man who ought from his position to have known Ireland well, is one of
the most extraordinary episodes in the history of the eminently foolish
transactions of the party.

After the wild affair at Boulagh Common, Smith O'Brien became a
fugitive. There was no more preparedness or spirit to rise in his behalf
than there had been for Mitchell; and indeed so destitute were leaders
and people of any military knowledge or resources, that in any effort
against the soldiery, the insurgents would have gone forth as sheep to
the slaughter.

On the 5th of August O'Brien was arrested at the Thurles railway
station, having taken a ticket at that place for Limerick. He was
recognised by Hulme, a guard on the Great Southern and Western Railway,
and the police and military were promptly summoned to Hulme's aid.
General M'Donald treated the prisoner with all possible courtesy, and
sent him to Dublin. The courtesies of the gallant general were rather
disdainfully repelled. Mr. O'Brien requested his portmanteau to be sent
for, as it contained various necessaries. This request was granted, but
all papers which it contained were abstracted by the Irish secretary,
and several documents and letters from the other leaders, of a
treasonable nature, were discovered. Nine years after this event,
when Mr. O'Brien as a pardoned convict was permitted to return to his
country, he had the puerility to complain of this act in a letter to the
public. The man who could fail to see the justice and propriety of
such a step on the part of the government, was so far beyond reason on
political matters, that all astonishment at the impracticability of his
insurrectionary attempts during the autumn of 1848 ceases.

On the 28th of September Mr. O'Brien was put upon his trial at Clonmel.
The trial lasted until the 9th of October, when a verdict of guilty was
returned, and a strong recommendation for mercy, the jury stating that,
on many grounds, they were of opinion that Mr. O'Brien's life should
be spared. Probably every impartial person in the kingdom snared their
views. The judges, however, recorded sentence of death.

The trials of MacManus, Meagher, and O'Donoghue resulted in verdicts of
guilty, and sentence of death was recorded in each case. When they were
brought to the court for that purpose, and asked what they had to say
why sentence of death should not be passed upon them, Mr. MacManus
delivered a manly and sensible speech, in a tone and with a manner
so frank and direct, as to produce a strong impression in his favour
throughout the court, as it did throughout the country, by all who
perused it. The speech of Meagher was an eloquent failure; it appeared
as if he had kept the noble and unfortunate Emmet before him as a model.
He addressed the judges as if he were about to expiate his error upon
the scaffold, whereas he knew, as all Ireland knew, that it was not the
intention of government to put the sentence of the law in force. This
circumstance gave an air of display and bombast to a speech that, if the
realities of the speaker's position had corresponded with it, would have
been thrillingly effective.

Soon after these events, a number of other participants in the revolt
were put upon their trial for their connection with it, or for seditious
writings. The following notices, under the head of "State Trials,"
appeared in the papers of the day, and will sufficiently exemplify the
general character of such proceedings and their results:--"The trial
of Mr. Williams was closed on Friday se'nnight, by the acquittal of the
accused. It appeared that he could not be fixed upon as the author of
any of the articles indicted. Those which were most violent had been
published during a period when he was confined to his room, and could
not, and did not, take part in conducting the _Tribune_. Mr. O'Doherty,
the part-proprietor of the _Tribune_, less fortunate than Mr. Williams,
has been sentenced to ten years' transportation. In Dublin the sentence
on Mr. O'Doherty was not expected to be so severe. He is a young man,
not more than twenty-two, and his high character for humanity, and the
recommendation of the jury, induced the public to believe that, though
the sentence would be severe, the punishment would not so nearly
approach that of those who preceded him in his career. With his
sentence, and the discharge of Mr. Williams, the commission terminated.
Mr. Duffy still remains in the custody of the gaoler of Newgate."

The sentence of death upon the prisoners at Clonmel was afterwards
commuted to transportation, and this was carried into effect. The people
of Ireland felt that the crown had acted with justice and clemency; and
all regretted the necessity of visiting with so severe a punishment men
whose conduct arose from fervent patriotism and honest purpose.

The case of Charles Gavan Duffy was the most remarkable of any which was
brought before the Irish law courts in connection with the insurrection.
Certainly, the charges brought against him were as clearly proved as
were those against any other of the party leaders. Yet the trial was so
managed, and juries were found so obstinate, that notwithstanding the
appearance of the most pertinacious prosecution on the part of the
crown, a conviction could not be obtained. The following extract from a
journal published Saturday, the 23rd of December, exhibits the general
character of the proceedings against Mr. Duffy, and the questions which
were raised to postpone his trial and embarrass the prosecution:--

"On Friday (se'nnight) the important trial of Mr. Duffy commenced,
before Baron Richards and Mr. Justice Perrin, and the first two days
were consumed in arguments for and against the quashing of a former
indictment found in the county of Dublin against the prisoner. On Monday
the court decided the point. The motion of the prisoner's counsel was,
that Mr. Duffy be not called upon to plead to the indictment found
against him by the grand jury of the county of the city of Dublin,
because another and a similar indictment was put in against him in the
county of Dublin; and as it would be an injustice to him to be called
upon to plead to one indictment during the subsistence of another in
which the crime laid was the same.

"The judgment of the court was, that the whole of the cases previous to
the passing of the act 6 Geo. IV., cap. 51, were against the case made
on behalf of Mr. Duffy, and that there was nothing in the act to take it
out of the operation of those decisions. The act did not directly apply
to the present case at all, and the court could not imply anything to
disqualify the crown from taking whatever course it should think fit to
take in furtherance of the administration of justice.

"The counsel for the prisoner, however, had not stated all their
objections; and on Mr. Duffy being called on to plead to the indictment,
his counsel handed in on his behalf a plea of abatement, on the ground
of the disqualification (by reason of non-residence, or not being
householders) of two of the grand jury who found the bill. The counsel
for the crown retired, and, ultimately, the further consideration of the
plea was postponed to the next day.

"The court intimated that in the decision they had come to on the motion
before them in the morning, they by no means desired or intended to
leave Mr. Duffy open to the indictment found in the county along with
that found in the city. Before he pleaded to the latter, the crown
should declare what course would be adopted--whether a _nolle prosequi_
should not be entered on the other.

"Application having been made to rescind the order of the court made on
Saturday, prohibiting the proceedings at the trial to be published in
the newspapers until the trial had been concluded, the court refused to
accede to the request.

"On Tuesday, the arguments on the plea, handed in on the previous day,
engaged the court the whole day. Their lordships took time to consult
the various authorities cited, before giving judgment. Before rising,
the court refused to hear Mr. Duffy, who applied to have the order
against the publication of the proceedings at the trial in the
newspapers rescinded, and directed the application to be made by
counsel; stating at the same time that the order must remain in force,
unless it could be shown that the prisoner would sustain damage from the
non-publication.

"On Thursday morning, Mr. Holmes inquired at what time their lordships
would deliver judgment as to the validity of the plea in abatement?
Mr. Justice Perrin replied that they hoped to be able to give judgment
tomorrow (Friday). It was clear that, no matter what that decision might
be, the trial could not be commenced until after Christmas."

After many and intricate legal questions had been disposed of, Mr. Duffy
finally escaped the meshes of the law, and resumed his avocations
as proprietor and editor of the _Nation_ newspaper, which journal he
conducted for a time with more moderation, although the government still
allowed him an extraordinary degree of license.

_Irish Agitation fob Rotatory Parliaments_.--The extinction of the Irish
insurrection did not suppress agitation. The moral-force Repealers kept
up a certain amount of clamour: said much, but not to any purpose, and
did nothing.

A considerable number of noblemen and gentlemen, more remarkable for
their high position and character than for intellectual power, formed
an association for the purpose of promoting what they called Rotatory
Parliaments, which would lead to the frequent holding of legislative
sessions in Dublin. On the 18th of December, a meeting for this purpose
was held in Dublin, at the Northumberland Buildings, Lord William
Fitzgerald in the chair. The meeting was but thinly attended, probably
on account of the extreme wet which prevailed all day. Mr. Sharman
Crawford proposed the first resolution--"That the present mode of
legislation for Ireland is at the root of all the difficulties under
which this country labours." Mr. Crawford referred all the evils under
which Ireland laboured to English misrule and Irish landlords. Dr.
Carmichael moved the next resolution:--"That amongst the many striking
instances of the neglect which Irish affairs, even of vital importance,
usually meet with in the imperial parliament, may be stated the failure
of all attempts by the Irish members to improve the laws relating to
medical charities." The next resolution was as follows:--"That the
present mode of legislation for Ireland tends to alienate the affections
of her people; to prevent their industry and self-reliance, and would be
impolitic even in a recently conquered country." The fourth resolution
stated:--"That the waste lands of Ireland offer a vast field of
remunerative employment for her unemployed population, while the many
abortive attempts that have been made to legislate on the subject in the
imperial parliament sitting at Westminster, furnishes another argument
for a meeting of the imperial parliament in Dublin." All the resolutions
were passed unanimously. Lord Massarene was then called to the chair;
and a vote of thanks having been passed to Lord W. Fitzgerald, the
meeting separated.

This agitation, which enlisted the attention of so many respectable
persons, was never supported by the people. Had the priests, and
their lay agents, and organs of the press favoured it, it would in all
probability have attained to some degree of importance. The people began
to lose faith in all associations, and the programme of this was not
sufficiently _piquant_ for the political taste of the violent and
bigoted sections of the community. The association met with some favour
in high quarters in England, but not with so much as its promoters
believed would be the case.

_Religious Feuds.--Conflicts between Landlords and Tenants_.--The social
and agrarian warfare continued when the political fires were quenched.
Men were waylaid and murdered on account of their religious opinions
being too prominently expressed for the bigotry of their assassins, and
the utmost religious animosity raged through the land. Landlords who
were active in proselytising, or who in any way showed religious zeal or
earnestness, were subject to insult and injury in every form.

The conduct of the owners of land was not generally forbearing and
praiseworthy, while the laws were all designed to operate in their
favour. The tenantry were not more just than the owners of the soil;
and altogether the relations of landlord and tenant in Ireland were most
unhappy. A letter written from Ireland at the close of the year, thus
depicted the state of affairs:--"The evictions and house-levelling do
not cease in activity. At Ardnacrusha, a little hamlet about two miles
from Limerick, twenty houses were levelled on Monday. Thousands of the
fertile acres of Tipperary are waste, and these are increased each day
by further evictions. The case is the same in Limerick and in Clare. We
find daily announcements of large farmers running away, and sweeping
all with them. They grow alarmed lest their turn may soon come, and they
evade the fate of others by leaving the land naked on the landlord's
hands. A few days since, in a district of Clare, while the farmers were
at market with their produce, the landlord's agents descended on the
farmers, with a large body of armed followers, and without legal process
or authority of any kind, it is said, swept away all the stock on the
land to satisfy the landlord's claims. On the other side of the picture
we find that a tenant, holding ninety-seven acres of land, had sold
off everything, and, with the whole of the produce in his pocket, had
reached Limerick, to emigrate, when he was arrested at the suit of his
landlord and other creditors."

_Advent of Cholera_.--Many as were the social and political evils of
Ireland during the sorrowful year of 1848, there was a providential
visitation which added to her miseries. Cholera made its appearance in
several places during the autumn; the cases were not very numerous, but
were in general fatal, and excited great apprehension as to the progress
of the pestilence, which, in the following year committed fearful
ravages. It was observable that the famine fever disappeared as this
still more deadly enemy approached.

Such was the history of Ireland during one of the most eventful years in
the annals of the world. She had passed through a terrible ordeal,
and although not wholly uninstructed by it, yet any lessons it was
calculated to teach were reluctantly received and imperfectly learned.


ENGLAND.

_Political Events_.--On former pages we sketched the violent political
convulsions of continental Europe, and the relation which England bore
to the changes which so rapidly took place: within her own confines
there was much uneasiness, and some danger, but law and order triumphed
over their adversaries.

The chartist confederacy put forth all its force, and its leader, Fergus
O'Connor, assumed unwonted boldness, both in and out of parliament.
Meetings were held in various parts of the country, in which the
government was denounced for not employing the people; and the virtue
(as it appeared to these assemblages) of appropriating the property of
the landholders and manufacturers, was loudly insisted upon.

One of these meetings, which excited considerable apprehension, was held
at Kennington Common, on the 13th of March. Much preparation appeared
to be made by the chartist leaders to give it the appearance of a very
great popular demonstration. Nearly fifteen thousand persons assembled,
the greater number from curiosity, the love of mischief, or any other
than political feeling. The speeches were inferior to those usually
made at such meetings, and except in the more than usual amount of abuse
offered to all who were not operatives, the meeting was not remarkable,
and was dispersed by a shower of rain. The consequences of the
assemblage were of more importance: many respectable persons were robbed
and beaten; provision dealers were plundered, and a pawnbroker's house
of business was stripped of all valuable articles. Rioting subsequently
occurred, although nearly four thousand police were in the neighbourhood
or in reserve. This meeting seriously damaged the chartist cause in
the metropolis. The upper and middle classes saw that plunder and
molestation awaited them and the peaceable portion of the poor, if
Chartism should gain the ascendant; and a determination arose to meet
and suppress, with a resolute hand, the first outbreak. Early in April,
fifteen of the rioters were put upon their trial for robbery with
violence; eleven were convicted, and sentenced to various terms of
transportation. This infuriated their confederates, and preparations
were made for another demonstration of immense magnitude, to which Mr.
Fergus O'Connor gave all his energy and influence. It was proposed
to hold another meeting at Kennington Common on the 10th of April,
ostensibly to carry a petition to the parliament house for making "the
Charter" law. One hundred and fifty thousand Chartists were expected to
assemble from very great distances. It was generally believed that the
intention was to effect an English socialist revolution. Probably on no
occasion, since the apprehension of invasion from the great Napoleon,
was the London public so much alarmed. The subject, of course, fell
under the consideration of parliament, where Fergus O'Connor was accused
of attending seditious meetings and making treasonable speeches; this he
denied with the greatest effrontery, affecting to be a pattern of order
and law, although it was notorious that he was bent upon revolutionary
attempts, and that his main motive was to resent certain affronts
offered to himself by the Whigs. He had been jealous of O'Connell, whom
that party to a certain extent petted, giving him private power and
patronage, while Fergus was treated, as he himself believed, without
consideration. His first attempts at agitation were in his own country,
Ireland; but O'Connell turned him into ridicule, and eventually
denounced him. Fergus then saw that the only hope of becoming an
agitator of name and influence lay among the discontented English
operatives; and he sought fame and power in that direction by means
unworthy of any man, and ultimately ruinous to himself and to many of
his dupes. On Tuesday, the 5th of April, the following conversation
occurred in the commons, which showed the apprehensions of government
and of the public, the hypocrisy of Mr. O'Connor, and the folly of Mr.
Hume, who, always meaning well, so often inflicted injury on the liberal
cause by his imperfect judgment and decided prejudices:--

"Mr. J. Walsh inquired of the secretary of state for the home
department, if the attention of the government had been directed to
the notice issued by the chartist body, of their intention to hold a
numerous public meeting on Kennington Common on Monday next, and to
go thence in procession to the House of Commons, for the purpose of
presenting a petition in favour of 'the people's Charter;' and if the
right honourable baronet was prepared to take any steps to prevent the
independence of the House of Commons from being overawed by any public
meeting, or to protect the loyal and peaceable inhabitants of London?
--Sir G. Grey replied that the attention of her majesty's government
had been directed to the notice in question, emanating from a convention
consisting of forty-nine delegates elected at public meetings held in
several of the large towns of the kingdom. This notice stated that
those delegates met in London for the purpose of superintending the
presentation of a petition in favour of the Charter to the House of
Commons, and to adopt any other course that might be deemed advisable in
order to secure the passing of the Charter into law. It likewise stated
that a great public meeting would be held on Kennington Common on
Monday next, and that the parties composing that assemblage would march
in a procession, regulated and superintended by marshals, with their
petition to the House of Commons. The attention of the government having
been called to that notice, and other information having reached them
respecting the intended proceedings, the government had directed a
notice to be issued, which would be published in the course of half an
hour throughout London, pointing out that, by the statute and common law
of these realms, the intended procession was illegal, warning the loyal
and peaceable subjects of her majesty to abstain from taking any part
in the procession, and calling upon them to give their best aid to the
constituted authorities towards preventing any disturbance, maintaining
public order, and preserving the public peace.--Mr. F. O'Connor said, if
there were the slightest intimation of committing a breach of the peace
on the occasion of this procession, he would not be a party to the
proceeding--that the parties concerned in the affair were peaceably
disposed--and that every man of them would consider himself as a special
constable, upon whom the preservation of peace was incumbent. Their
whole object was to present to that house a petition, signed by between
five and six millions of the people. The present announcement would
certainly take the people by surprise.--Sir G. Grey could not see how
they could be taken by surprise. The government had, at the earliest
moment, taken the subject into deliberation, and resolved to take the
course he had indicated.--Mr. Hume was sorry to find the government
had taken up the subject so seriously, and advised them to rescind the
proclamation."

Notwithstanding Mr. Hume's advice, the government did take it up as a
serious matter, and the opinion of the public was with the government.
Among other measures which the executive took to ensure security, the
following were conspicuous:--"A large supply of fire-arms and cutlasses
have been sent from the Tower to the East India House, and their
different warehouses, the Custom House, Excise-office, the Post-office,
Bank of England, the Mansion House, the various departments at Somerset
House, the Ordnance-office, Pall-Mali, the Admiralty, and the different
government offices at the West-end; also to a great many banking-houses
in the city, and the dock companies. The clerks and persons employed
in these establishments will be ready to act, if absolutely necessary,
against any outrage that may be committed by a mob. The swearing-in
of special constables is proceeding rapidly in Lambeth, Walworth,
Camberwell, the Borough, and the districts on the Surrey side of the
water, where the tradespeople and householders all show their desire to
protect the public peace if called upon."

These preparations were followed by the following proclamation:--

"_NOTICE_

"Whereas the assemblage of large numbers of people, accompanied with
circumstances tending to excite terror and alarm in the minds of her
majesty's subjects, is criminal and unlawful.

"And whereas not only those persons who take an active part in such,
assemblage, but those also who by their presence wilfully countenance
it, are acting contrary to law, and are liable to punishment; and
whereas an act of parliament, passed in the thirteenth year of the reign
of his late majesty King Charles II., intituled, 'An act against tumults
and disorders, upon pretence of preparing or presenting public petitions
or other addresses to his majesty in the parliament,' it was enacted,
'that no person or persons whatsoever shall repair to his majesty, or
both or either of the houses of parliament, upon pretence of presenting
or delivering any petition, complaint, remonstrance, or declaration, or
other addresses, accompanied with excessive numbers or people, nor at
any one time with above the number of ten persons.'

"And whereas a meeting has been called to assemble on Monday next, the
10th instant, at Kennington Common, and it is announced in the printed
notices calling such meeting, that it is intended by certain persons to
repair thence in procession to the House of Commons, accompanied with
excessive numbers of people, upon pretence of presenting a petition
to the Commons house of parliament; and whereas information has been
received that persons have been advised to procure arms and weapons,
with the purpose of carrying the same in such procession; and whereas
such proposed procession is calculated to excite 'terror and alarm in
the minds of her majesty's subjects.

"All persons are hereby cautioned and strictly enjoined not to attend,
or take part in, or be present at, any such assemblage or procession.

"And all well-disposed persons are hereby called upon and required to
aid in enforcing the provisions of the law, and effectually to protect
the public peace, and suppress any attempt at the disturbance thereof.

"(Signed) C. Rowan,

"R. Maxne,

"Commissioners of the Police of the Metropolis.

"Metropolitan Police Office, Whitehall Place,

"April 6, 1848."


The government resolved wisely to permit the meeting to assemble, at the
same time announcing that any attempt to cross the bridges in a formal
procession would be resisted. By this means, which it was alleged
had been taken by the advice of the Duke of Wellington, the immense
concourse of the seditious was placed at the side of the river where
they could do least mischief, and the passages of which by the bridges
could be easily defended by a small force. The government thus
showed the impotency of the chartist party, and its own respect for
constitutional rights.

On the morning fixed for the great experiment London presented a strange
appearance. A vast body of persons was called out to act as special
constables. Men of every rank of life might be seen in this capacity,
among them Prince Louis Napoleon Buonaparte, afterwards Emperor of the
French, stood with his constable's baton as a custoder of order. The
troops, which had been called from distances, and were billeted in the
suburbs, rapidly concentrated at tap of drum and call of bugle. The
Duke of Wellington, having the command, so disposed them that, without
appearing through the day, they were ready to act at a moment's notice,
wherever their presence might be necessary, and so posted that each
detachment could readily render support to another, in a regular chain
of defensive positions. From every part of the provinces chartist
delegates arrived, by railway and coach, bringing large rolls of
petitions to be appended to the general roll.

Very early in the morning the Chartists gathered, in large bodies, at
each separate rendezvous. Russell Square, Clerkenwell Green, and Stepney
Green, were the grand points of meeting, where the greatest numbers
assembled before marching to Kennington Common. Some of these
processions were composed, to a great extent, of old men, boys, and
women, and were attended by bands. Poles, surmounted by caps of liberty,
flags, and streamers, were borne in the ranks or in carts. All these
detachments were watched by mounted police and special constables, and
at each rendezvous a large body of special constables on foot was drawn
up to prevent any breach of the peace. The police being concentrated on
various points, their ordinary duty was performed by special constables,
who were distinguished by official staves and a white band round the
arm. The shops were closed, and the public buildings were all well
guarded and fortified. Buckingham Palace seemed the only place upon
which no extra care was expended. No one supposed that the home of her
majesty would be insulted, no matter what party was in the ascendant. As
the troops took up their several positions within the public buildings,
they were loudly cheered by the people in the streets, for it was
evident, notwithstanding the immense chartist concourse, that an
overwhelming majority of the Londoners was opposed to their proceedings.
While matters were taking this course with the general public, the
chartist delegates met in their usual place, the Literary and Scientific
Institution, John Street, Fitzroy Square; Mr. Reynolds was called to
the chair at nine o'clock. Mr. Doyle, the secretary, announced that a
communication had been received from the head police-office, Scotland
Yard, intimating that no procession from Kennington Common to the
parliament house with the petition would be allowed, but that the
petition itself would be permitted to pass the bridge in the custody of
a suitable number of persons. Several speakers urged that the government
should be set at defiance, and the petition proceeded with at all risks,
until delivered at the House of Commons. Fergus O'Connor dissuaded them
from any collision with the authorities. In a speech full of bombast and
egotism, he declared that he was personally marked out for slaughter by
the authorities. Thus, after all the bluster of this great tribune,
as his followers called him, he showed the white feather. He was not
prepared, like Smith O'Brien, gallantly to go out, with his life in his
hand, and verify, by exposing himself to every peril and penalty, the
words which he uttered when it was safe to utter them. Mr. O'Connor's
dissuasions in the interest of peace did not meet the approbation of
the delegates, who seemed unanimously resolved to force their way across
Westminster Bridge when the hour should arrive for so doing. In this
spirit the meeting was adjourned to Kennington Common. The following
graphic account of the departure of the delegates, their progress
thither, and their arrival, was given by an eye-witness:--

"During this discussion two newly-constructed cars had driven up to the
doors of the institution. The one intended for the conveyance of the
monster petition was on four wheels, and drawn by as many very splendid
farm horses. The body of the car was square, and surmounted by a
tastefully constructed canopy. The attendants bore streamlets in
the varied colours of red, green, and white, having appropriate
inscriptions. The van or car in waiting for the delegates was upwards
of twenty feet in length, with seats arranged transversely, in so
commodious a manner as to afford comfortable accommodation to the
delegates, as well as several representatives of the press. The body
of the car was inscribed with the motto, 'The Charter. No surrender.
Liberty is worth living for and worth dying for.' On the left, 'The
voice of the people is the voice of God;' while on the back of the car
was inscribed, 'Who would be a slave that could be free?' 'Onward, we
conquer; backward, we fall.' Eight banners were fixed (four on each
side) to the car, inscribed, 'The Charter.' 'No vote, no muskets.' 'Vote
by ballot,' 'Annual parliaments,' 'Universal suffrage,' 'No property
qualification,' 'The payment of members,' and 'Electoral districts.' To
the vehicle were harnessed six farm-horses of superior breed, and in the
highest possible condition. The marshals (designated by a silk sash of
the colours red, white, and green) having announced, at ten minutes past
ten o'clock, all in readiness, Mr. F. O'Connor was the first to ascend
the car. The honourable gentleman was received with loud cheers by the
crowd which thronged John Street, and took his seat in front of the van.
He was followed by Mr. Ernest Jones, Mr. Harney, Mr. M'Grath, Mr.
Clark, Mr. Wheeler, Mr. Reynolds, Dr. Hunter, and other leaders of the
convention. The rest of that body having also taken their seats, the
_cortege_ set forth amidst loud cheers. Passing along Goodge Street into
Tottenham Court Road, along High Street, Bloomsbury, the National Land
Company's office was reached, and from that building five huge bales or
bundles, comprising the petition, with the signatures, were brought out,
and secured on the first car, prepared for their reception. Again the
cavalcade moved forward, and progressing along Holborn and Farringdon
Street, reached New Bridge Street, the crowd increasing the train at
every step. So far the shops in the line which had been passed were only
partially closed. The utmost order prevailed, though the delegates were
recognised by numerous friends and adherents, and at intervals most
vociferously cheered. At the Waithman obelisk the alderman of the ward,
Sir James Duke, was in attendance, with his deputy, Mr. Obbard; but up
to this spot not a single policeman was to be seen. The windows of the
houses in New Bridge Street were filled with spectators, and, amidst
much applause, the moving mass took an onward course across Blackfriars
Bridge. At this time, a strong detachment of a battalion of pensioners,
under arms, and fully accoutred, were observed to have just landed
at the city pier, from Woolwich, and were loudly cheered by the vast
concourse that now crowded the bridge. On reaching the Surrey side, the
first display of the civil force appeared. On each side of Albion Place,
were drawn up, in military order, a strong body, in double file, of the
L division of the metropolitan police, while the city police maintained
the ground on each side of the bridge, which was within the limits of
the city jurisdiction. This force was under the orders of Mr. Henry, one
of the magistrates at Bow Street. Opposite the end of Stamford Street,
a party of the mounted police, fifteen strong, under the command of an
inspector, was stationed. In its passage along the Blackfriars Road to
the Elephant and Castle, the crowd continued to increase, and hem in
the vehicles on both sides; still, everything was peaceable and
well-conducted. At the Elephant and Castle a new mass joined in the rear
of those who, walking eight abreast, and followed the train from the
place of departure, and on reaching Newington Church the appearance of
the masses was most bewildering. Proceeding along the Kennington Road
the common was reached at half-past eleven o'clock. Here had already
assembled the Irish confederalists, and the various bodies of the
trades of London, who had intimated their intention of joining in the
demonstration. These had taken their position in numerical order on
the common, having arrived from their different rendezvous some
time previously. Each trade had its emblematic banner, and the Irish
confederalists displayed a very splendid green standard, emblazoned with
the harp of Erin, and the motto 'Erin go bragh.'"

The delegates addressed the meeting, and recommended peace, but chiefly
on the ground that they were not prepared to contend with the armed
force directed upon all the strategetic points where it might be
made available. The magistrates and some of the chiefs of police were
assembled at the Horns Tavern, Kennington, where they sent for Mr.
O'Connor, requesting an interview. The mob supposed that he was
arrested, and loud cries arose for his rescue. They were pacified,
however, by his return, accompanied by Mr. M'Grath, and he was welcomed
by the people with a tumult of cheers. He had given the magistrates
assurance that order should be preserved, and he communicated the fact
to the people, many of whom, believing that the day would issue in a
revolution, were dissatisfied. Discussions arose on Cuffey advising the
people to force Westminster Bridge, and present the petition themselves.
The more moderate of the leaders, having their recommendations well
backed by the statement that the troops were under arms and the police
provided with cutlasses and pistols, prevailed, and the mob at last
consented that the petition should be taken in a cab by Mr. O'Connor and
certain others, and be presented by the honourable member for Nottingham
that night. Upon the departure of Mr. O'Connor and the other delegates
with the petition, a Mr. Clark moved the adoption of a petition to the
House of Commons against the bill for providing more effectually for
the security of the crown and government:--"The humble petition of the
inhabitants of the metropolis of England, in public meeting assembled,
showeth: That your petitioners have heard, with feelings of indignation
and astonishment, that, by a bill which is now before your honourable
house, for the ostensible purpose of providing more efficiently for the
security of the crown and the government of these realms, it is sought
to alter the law relating to the indefinite charge of sedition, and to
punish by transportation that which is at present punishable by fine and
imprisonment. That your petitioners regard this bill as an attempt to
deprive the people of the right of expressing their just horror at the
atrocious legislation which is generally practised by your honourable
house, and your petitioners beg your honourable house to stamp this
infamous measure with condemnation, by its unanimous and ignominious
rejection."

This resolution was seconded by a Mr. Kydd, and eloquently supported by
Mr. Reynolds, and at half-past one the assembly broke up. The multitudes
of course pressed to the bridges, but found their progress everywhere
obstructed by police. Those who chose to cross the toll-paying bridges,
were permitted to do so upon payment, under the eye of strong bodies
of police. At London Bridge and Blackfriars, the crowd made desperate
efforts to force their way across, and repeatedly swept the police
before them, but were encountered by stronger efforts, and inch by
inch driven back again. At Westminster Bridge the chief struggle was
maintained, so that fears were entertained lest the bridge should give
way beneath the swaying masses. On these three points many of the more
sturdy of the mob were severely wounded by the swords of the mounted
police, and many were arrested and placed in custody under the charge of
riot. When the "monster petition" was brought over Westminster
Bridge, the excitement of the multitude assembled in Bridge Street and
Parliament Street was very great, and the police had to disperse or
capture many ill-disposed persons who had no public object in collecting
together. The petition and chartist executive committee arrived at the
lobby of the commons by half-past three o'clock.

The house met at the usual hour. When the gallery was opened, the
chartist petition, of awful bulk, stood rolled up in front of the table.
An unusual number of members were present; several peers occupied
the seats allotted to them in the chamber, and the public gallery was
filled. Mr. Smith O'Brien was in his place, and he was the object of
much observation. After the transaction of private business, Mr. F.
O'Connor rose and said--"Sir, I have the honour to present a petition
signed by five million seven hundred and six thousand persons,
and another signed by thirty thousand persons, praying for annual
parliaments, universal suffrage, vote by ballot, equal electoral
districts, no property qualification, and the payment of members. As
I have already received so much courtesy from the house, I will say
nothing further at present, but move that the petition be read at the
table."

The petition having been read by the clerk, Lord Morpeth rose to
apologise for the necessary absence of the homesecretary. The noble lord
said that the secretary of state would have been in his place, only
that he was occupied with the numerous details of his office. It was his
opinion, with regard to the matters of the petition, that he would
not willingly be wanting in proper respect to a petition so numerously
signed.

The petition was then received, and was, with difficulty, rolled down
the floor of the house to the bar.

Mr. Lushington gave notice that on Friday night he would ask the first
lord of the treasury whether he could hold out a distinct hope that,
in the present session, he would introduce himself, or support the
introduction of any measure for the extension of the suffrage, the
abridgment of the duration of parliaments, the formation of electoral
divisions, and the vote by ballot. This motion was hailed with loud
cheers.

The strangers' gallery, and wherever spectators could be accommodated,
was full during this scene, and the public desire to hear what notice
the lords would take of these events was nearly as great; there also
every allowable space was occupied by anxious expectants, to hear the
Duke of Wellington and other ministers express their opinions.

The Marquis of Lansdowne, in reply to a question from the Marquis of
Northampton, stated that the meeting which had caused so much alarm
throughout the metropolis had taken place at Kennington Common that day,
and the multitude had been dispersed by the police without requiring the
aid of the military, and without any difficulty. The petition had, he
believed, been brought to the House of Commons in a cab, and had been
presented according to the usual form.--Lord Brougham, who made his
first appearance in the house since Christmas, remarked that however
high he held the right of petitioning, and of meeting for the purpose
of discussing public affairs, he was decidedly of opinion that such
a multitudinous meeting as that referred to, as well as the monster
meetings of Ireland, could be viewed in no other light but as
demonstrations intended to overawe the parliament and the crown by an
exhibition of physical force. Although he had condemned the manner in
which the Manchester meeting in 1819 was put down, it was his opinion,
as well as the opinion of Lord Plunkett and the late Lord Abinger, that
such a meeting could not be considered _bonâ fide_ meant for discussion,
and that it was illegal.--The Duke of Wellington quite concurred in the
law as declared by Lord Brougham, and considered that the metropolis
had deep reasons for complaint in having trade interrupted, commerce
suspended, the inhabitants kept in a state of alarm and terror for
several days, owing to the assemblage of large bodies of people, whose
only object could be, by meeting in such multitudes, to overawe the
legislature. He sincerely rejoiced that the peace had been preserved
without the appearance of a single soldier.--The Marquis of Northampton
heard the explanations given with pleasure. He thought the country was
greatly indebted to the noble duke, and also to all concerned, for their
exertions in maintaining the peace.--The Marquis of Lansdowne declared
that it was most gratifying to him and to the government to find
the enthusiasm displayed by all the respectable inhabitants of the
metropolis, who had come forward to enrol themselves as special
constables. The noble marquis said that the exemplary conduct of the
police was also deserving of the highest commendation.

Allegations having been made that the names attached to the petition
were not nearly so numerous as alleged, and that many of them were
forgeries, an inquiry was called for, and the committee on public
petitions had the task assigned to it of making the investigation. The
report made by the chairman to the house was most singular, showing that
in fact the privilege of petition had been abused, and the house trifled
with. On the 13th of April Mr. Thornley brought up the report of
the committee on public petitions, which stated that upon the 26th of
November last, a committee was appointed to report to the house the
number of signatures attached to all petitions presented to that house,
and that they had felt it their duty to make a special report to the
house upon the subject of the national petition, presented on the 10th
of April by the honourable member for Nottingham, signed by subjects of
the British crown. The committee attached the utmost value to the right
of petitioning, and to the exercise of that most important privilege by
the subjects of this realm, and felt deeply the necessity of preserving
the due exercise of such privilege from abuse, and having also a due
regard to the importance of a petition so very numerously signed, had
made that petition the subject of their present report. They felt bound,
in the discharge of their duty, to represent to the house that with
respect to that petition there had been a gross abuse of that privilege.
The honourable member for Nottingham, upon presenting the petition,
had stated that the petition was signed by upwards of five millions of
persons. Upon the most careful examination of the number of signatures
in the committee, with the assistance of thirteen law-stationer's
clerks, who acted under the superintendence of the various clerks of the
committees, the number of signatures attached to the petition does not,
in the opinion of the committee, amount to two millions. It is further
found that a large number of the signatures were consecutively written
by the same hand. It was likewise observed that a large number of the
signatures were those of persons who could not be supposed to have
concurred in its prayer; among these were the name of her majesty,
signed Victoria Rex, the Duke of Wellington, Sir Robert Peel, &c, &c.
There was also noticed a large number of names which were evidently
fictitious, such as "Pugnose," "Longnose," "Flatnose," "Punch,"
"Snooks," "Fubbs," and also numerous obscene names, which the committee
would not offend the house or its dignity by repeating, but which
evidently belonged to no human being. Upon the motion that the report do
lie upon the table, a somewhat angry and personal discussion arose, in
which Mr. Cripps was very severe in his censure of the conduct of Mr.
O'Connor, in alleging that upwards of five millions of signatures had
been attached to the petition. The motion was eventually agreed to. At
the conclusion of the discussion Mr. F. O'Connor left the house; and a
hostile meeting between him and Mr. Cripps having been presumed likely,
in consequence of the personal nature of what had passed, Mr. O'Connor
was, on an order of the house at a late period of the evening, taken
into the custody of the sergeant-at-arms, but was subsequently released,
and a reconciliation with Mr. Cripps effected.

Throughout the year attempts were made by the Chartists to create
disturbances, and many of them were arrested and punished for riot,
assault, or sedition. The leaders were very active in disseminating
among the working classes opinions adverse to the rights of property and
of society at large. These proceedings injured the cause of electoral
and parliamentary reform. There were many members in the House of
Commons, and many persons of influence throughout the country, who were
favourable to some of the principal political opinions put forth in
"the people's Charter," but there was no sympathy among these classes for
the economical and social theories of the party by which the Charter
was chiefly upheld. Reform in parliament, which was still desired by the
people at large, was thus postponed by the alarm which the extreme views
and violent temper of the Chartists created amongst the classes who
possessed property, and amongst religious and peaceable citizens.


VISIT OF FRENCH NATIONAL GUARDS TO LONDON.

The political excitement of the times was much increased by a visit to
London, made at the end of October, by more than a thousand National
Guards of Paris, in full uniform. Aged persons who remembered the first
French revolution, and the subsequent wars, were somewhat alarmed at
this sudden appearance of French uniforms. The masses of the people
welcomed the peaceful invaders, and the British Guards fraternised with
them. Every public place was thrown open to them, and in the theatres
and public gardens they were greeted with applause, the bands performing
French national music. The visitors departed, expressing their high
sense of the cordiality with which they had been received.


COMMERCIAL AFFAIRS.

This year was one of severe trial to Great Britain. The credit of many
great mercantile houses was shaken, and many failed. The distress
which prevailed at the beginning of the year, both in Great Britain
and Ireland, disheartened the trading community, and impeded the usual
course of business. When the French revolution suddenly burst forth,
business received a shock such as only political events of the greatest
magnitude can communicate; but when that event was followed by a series
of continental revolutions, destroying the old European system, and
convulsing nearly all the great monarchies, commercial affairs were
nearly paralysed. The threatened disturbances in Ireland, and the
chartist agitation at home, aggravated the evil effects which so many
other causes produced. Banking accommodation was extremely difficult of
attainment, and the funds fell very low. About the end of March affairs
assumed some hopefulness, and the funds rose; but so many events crowded
on in rapid succession, like dark clouds impelled by the storm, that
these encouraging indications were checked. Still, public confidence in
the stability of British institutions sustained public credit, and the
disturbed state of other countries likewise caused the investment of
capital in England to a surprising extent, keeping up the funds,
and extending commercial transactions. As soon as the great chartist
demonstrations of April were over, and the safety of the government
placed beyond doubt, monetary and mercantile matters rapidly
improved; and although English merchants and bankers suffered from the
fluctuations of credit on the continent, yet the security of England
reacted upon all European commerce, and caused the continental losses of
our capitalists and traders to be far less than could have been expected
in a season so politically tempestuous.


THE COBDEN TESTIMONIAL.

Soon after the repeal of the corn laws, it was resolved by certain
friends of that measure to give Mr. Cobden a testimonial of national
gratitude for his services. The public knew his deserts, but they did
not know that he had consumed his fortune in their behalf. The business
of Mr. Cobden was that of a calico-printer, which he carried on in
the neighbourhood of Manchester. By the excellence of his colours, his
execution, and the novelty and good taste of his patterns, he created
a vast and distinctive trade, which he necessarily neglected while
conducting the agitation against the corn laws; and the result was
perilous to his business and ruinous to his purse. Viewed in this
respect the national testimonial was but an act of justice, apart from
any consideration of the great services which he rendered to the cause
of free-trade. None but those immediately cognizant of his efforts could
conceive his herculean labours to promote the repeal of the corn laws.
His eloquence was characterised by intelligence, directness, the absence
of all meretricious ornament, and an eagerness to convince and carry his
hearers with him, which was singularly effective. His addresses were
not only free from all ambition as to ornate or attractive language, but
also as to original or characteristic thought. There was such an
entire absence of all self-seeking about the man, and he so thoroughly
identified himself with the people whose interests he pleaded, that,
possessing a fair readiness of speech, and aptness for _ad captandum_
argument, he could not fail to secure the favourable attention of
earnest men on a subject where their interests were largely engaged.

Although Mr. Cobden promoted the agitation of the question on broad
national grounds, he, nevertheless, looked at it from a class point of
view more particularly, and this was one of the elements of his power
with the traders. When he began the agitation it was as a manufacturer,
for the redress of a grievance which affected his class; it was as he
went on in the agitation for that object, that he began to look upon
the question as one of general interest; and then his speeches assumed
a higher tone and a larger scope, and sound principles of political
economy were uttered by him with all the force of truth which he felt,
and which he had capacity ably to express. It could, however, scarcely
fail to strike men that whether in Free-Trade Hall, in Manchester, or in
the commons house of parliament, his speeches on free-trade were rather
those of the merchant than the philosopher or the statesman. On all
political and politico-economical questions, the tone of his mind was
the same: he regarded them rather in reference to the effect likely to
be produced upon commerce in its immediate or proximate interests,
than in the ulterior consequences, or the great political and ethical
principles involved. The interests of trade, rather than the honour
of England, engaged his heart. He was, consequently, accused of being
deficient in patriotism; but no public man was more willing to sacrifice
himself for the welfare of the people of England, or was personally less
selfish. He was kind, amiable, truthful, honourable, and upright; and
desired with all his energies to promote, not only the welfare of his
countrymen, but of all men.

A public subscription having been set on foot, the committee by whom
it was conducted reported the result of their labours about the end of
April. Seventy-nine thousand pounds were contributed; it would have
been twice the sum, but for the distress, and the disturbance of
public affairs by the torrent of revolution which was sweeping over the
continent. The birthplace of Mr. Cobden, in Sussex, was purchased for
him, and the remainder of the money invested according to his wish. A
sum of £10,000 was raised for Mr. Bright, whose services, however great,
were justly deemed inferior to those of Mr. Cobden. Mr. Bright, however,
was supposed to possess considerable pecuniary resources, although he
also spent freely his private property for the public welfare; and it
was alleged that, but for his liberality in this respect, Mr. Cobden
could not have maintained his post in the face of so many personal
sacrifices. Mr. Bright was the less popular man of the two, partly from
temper, and a certain _hauteur_ which contrasted unfavourably with the
more simple and cordial manners of Mr. Cobden, partly from his religious
opinions bringing him, under a sense of duty, into collision with
the Established Church on various irritating questions, such as
church-rates. The general attainments of Mr. Bright were higher, and
his oratorical talents far superior to those of Mr. Cobden. The latter
frequently fell beneath his ordinary standard of effectiveness, Mr.
Bright scarcely ever. The author of these lines has frequently attended
public meetings in which these gentlemen took part, and he hardly
remembers a single instance in which Mr. Blight's speech did not possess
a high order of eloquence; whereas many of Mr. Cobden's speeches were
only interesting on account of the facts they detailed, and the clear
manner in which they were communicated.

Some time after these contributions of good-will from the country to the
two principal orators of the Anti-cornlaw League, a similar tribute was
paid to the services of Mr. Archibald Prentice, for many years editor
and proprietor of the _Manchester Times_. This gentleman was the founder
of the Anti-corn-law Association, out of which the League sprung, and, as
an able writer and public speaker, did much to prepare the way for the
men who afterwards conducted that agitation to victory. Mr. Prentice
fought bravely and pertinaciously for the repeal of the corn laws, long
before the wealthy supported it, or the suffrages of statesmen and men
of influence gave it a leading position in the questions of the day.

It was not to the credit of some others (a very small number) who
were advocates of the League, that they were as eager to set on foot
subscriptions for themselves, as the public were for those who had
really earned them. One individual, who hung about "the League
rooms," and made speeches often undesired by the committee, and
when inconvenient to their arrangements, was very indignant that a
subscription was not raised for him. Without eloquence in speech,
temperance in council, or discretion in action, he became prominent only
by overbearing boldness, and an ever-meddling officiousness.


AGITATION CONCERNING THE NAVIGATION LAWS.

Early in the parliamentary session, the government indicated an
intention to repeal the navigation laws. In this they were supported
very ardently by Mr. Hume, Mr. Ricardo, Mr. Cobden, Mr. Bright, Mr.
Milner Gibson, and by many other ardent friends of the Manchester
school. The time was ill-chosen for any movement on this subject,
because the seamen as well as the shipowners were opposed to any
alteration, and the disturbed state of continental Europe, and indeed of
the British Isles, made it extremely unwise for government to irritate a
class whose physical energy, peculiar position, and popularity with the
people, gave them, if disposed, peculiar capacity to disturb the peace.

The party which desired the repeal of the navigation laws maintained
that free-trade in ships and seamen was as necessary as in other
matters, and the cotton districts called loudly for the change. The
leader of the shipping interest was James Mather, Esq., of South
Shields, a gentleman not connected with ships or shipowners, but moved
by patriotic feelings alone. Mr. Mather possessed all the qualities
necessary for a leader in the agitation of a great political and
politico-economical question. With a highly cultivated intellect,
conciliatory address, fearless spirit, and astonishing physical energy,
he was just the man to please at once the educated mariners, and the
rough, bold, hardy tars. The gentlemanly bearing of Mr. Mather was
also calculated to impress his opponents favourably, and a graceful
persuasiveness of mien and language, aided in qualifying him for that
object. Mr. Mather grappled with the arguments of Cobden, Bright, and
the other leaders of the cotton districts, whose influence at that time,
fresh from their victory over the corn interest, made it important to
confute the arguments they addressed to the public. Mr. Mather addressed
a letter to the editor of the _Shipping Almanack and Gazette_, which
produced a great impression where the arguments of the Lancashire
leaders had been accepted as irrefutable. It is desirable to reproduce
this document, as the controversy was one of the most important in its
day, and the policy ultimately adopted remained longer open to question
than any other of the anti-protectionist measures which were adopted.
Mr. Mather's letter was the more effective, because it exposed an
artifice to which Mr. Gladstone especially resorted, but in which he was
supported by the Lancashire members:--

"The combined attack of Messrs. Gladstone, Bright, Cobden, and two
or three others in the House of Commons, upon the navigation laws, on
account of their preventing the importation of a few cargoes of cotton
lying at Havre, and demanding a suspension of these laws for the
immediate necessities of the manufactories, and the advantage of British
shipping, was as unfair and discreditable a proceeding as party men have
for a long time been guilty of. For the sixty-five thousand bales of
cotton at Havre, brought across the Atlantic chiefly by French ships, it
is, they assert, of advantage to British shipping to destroy that amount
of carriage on the long voyage, and allow this cotton to be brought from
France to England, which a few trips of a steamer would easily effect.
The very statement of the matter, in plain language, refutes the absurd
assertion. You are losing the carriage of thirty cargoes of cotton,
these gentlemen asserted. No, it is replied, for by preventing their
admission from France, as there is a great abundance of cotton in
America, we are gaining the carriage of thirty cargoes on the long
voyage--a portion in British ships; and you will get cotton just as
cheap, nay cheaper for the manufacturers, as the expense of transhipment
will be saved.

"But the cotton is immediately wanted, they assert. Now this was a mere
pretence, which the parties clearly understood, to give a momentary
effect to a most untenable charge. Events have corroborated this.

"Within a few days thirty-three vessels have brought seventy-three
thousand six hundred and forty-nine bales of cotton from America; and
such is the great want of it, sufficient to annihilate or suspend the
navigation laws, that the manufacturers only bought nineteen thousand
six hundred and sixty bales, while nine hundred and seventy bales were
bought for exportation; that, instead of requiring cotton, they are
exporting it from the manufacturing district in which it was stated to
be so much required.

"If cotton was in such demand, would it be upwards of thirty per cent,
lower than it was last year, and would it be falling in price as it is
now? Prices are at present within 1/8d. per lb. of the lowest they were
ever reduced to. For two months it has been a falling market, and at
the very moment these men were advancing such assertions, was the cotton
market in a state of decline, giving the broadest contradiction to them.
If cotton had been wanted, the price, as in any other article, would
have been high, not low, and would have been advancing, not receding,
especially with a limited supply.

"The importation last year was the smallest for ten years. Increasing
previous to 1845 for fifty years, it has since rapidly decreased, and
now it has been found that nearly one-third less stock is required than
there was in 1843,1844, and 1845.

                                                   BALES.

     In 1843 it was..........................    1,557,597

     1844....................................    1,490,984

     1845....................................    1,652,731

     1846....................................    1,134,194

     1847....................................    1,087,058

"And in this year (1848), up to this month, it has been ascertained that
one-third less stock than in the previous low year of 1847, is more
than enough. (See _George! Holt &c.; Co.'s Circular, and Liverpool Prices
Current,_ for the 7th of April). In addition, a reduction of upwards
of thirty per cent, in price, from that of last year, indicates a still
more limited requirement.

"While the stock is only, up to this period for this year, three hundred
and twenty-two thousand eight hundred bales, against the corresponding
period last year, four hundred and ninety-two thousand six hundred
bales; showing, with upwards of one-third less stock one-third less
price--a demonstrative proof that the supply is infinitely greater than
the demand. Whenever the price advances, indicating demand, the
American supply will be poured into the market without any necessity
for importations from France. Had the navigation laws been suspended, as
urged by some of their opponents, and the French cotton brought in, it
would only have been a drug in the market, useless and unsaleable. More
has since been brought in than was lying at Havre, at thirty per cent,
less than they have had it for two years, and they will not buy it.
It was not wanted; only an excuse was wanted to strike a blow--a most
unfair one--at the navigation laws, and the British commercial marine,
which all the little opponents throughout the country, in their gross
ignorance, have quoted and applauded."

Meanwhile, the agitation of the mariners and shipowners was exceeding
great, especially in the three grand centres of maritime activity--the
Thames, the Mersey, and the Tyne. Along the north-east coast of England,
the tidings that the government meant to repeal the navigation laws sped
with rapidity, and produced the most intense excitement. Public
meetings were called at Hull, Scarborough. Whitby, Sunderland,
Newcastle-upon-Tyne, Shields, and Berwick, which were attended by great
numbers, and which were eloquently addressed. The sailors attended these
meetings with boisterous enthusiasm. They were under the impression that
a great wrong was about to be perpetuated, and they were resolved to do
anything which loyalty allowed to defeat the meditated alterations in
the law. Under the guidance of a man less just and scrupulous, and less
jealous for the constitution than Mr. Mather was, much mischief might
have arisen from the sense of grievance which the sailors entertained.
That gentleman, however, so conducted the agitation as to gain a large
measure of public support, and to defeat, during that year, the proposed
alterations.

A convention of shipowners and seamen of the Tyne was held at Shields,
one of the largest and most important ever held in England. Mr. Mather
proposed the following resolutions, which were enthusiastically adopted:
they will disclose the purpose and opinion of that community:--

"Resolved--That we will resist, by every legal and constitutional means
in our power, the repeal of the navigation laws, so violently agitated
by theorists and self-interested men, which were adopted, and have been
sustained, by the wisest statesmen in all ages for the support of the
shipping and seamen of Britain, to prevent the cheap ships and ill-fed
and badly-paid foreigners from underselling and destroying the British
mercantile marine.

"Resolved--That we pledge ourselves, on arriving in London, to take
measures, in conjunction with all the seamen there, loyally and
respectfully, as becomes British seamen, to lay, personally, an urgent
memorial at the feet of her majesty, warning her of the consequence of
driving British seamen into the service of a foreign state, where that
protection and encouragement are freely given them that, by the repeal
of the navigation laws, will be denied them in their own country; and
humbly entreating her majesty to interpose her royal authority for the
protection of that class of men who, in time of war and danger, her
ancestors and this kingdom have ever found their best protection and
their greatest glory."

At this meeting Mr. Mather was deputed to proceed to London, and lay the
statements of the ship-owners before the government. A speech made by
that gentleman at Shields, places the controversy in the light in which
it was then viewed by the shipping interest:--

"All the maritime laws that have guided the policy of this great state
for centuries, that have made her 'great, glorious, and free,' are to be
repealed under the most frivolous pretexts. Mr. Labouchere, the organ
of the government, a supporter of reciprocity and equal rights to
the commercial marine of the world--British and foreign--propounds a
measure in which he bestows all the preponderating advantages upon the
opponents of his own country. Had the act being that of an enemy it
would have been proper. The whole foreign and colonial trade is to be
given up to foreign shipping, free and unfettered, while that of Britain
is to be bound down hand and foot, and scarcely capable of moving.
First, then, your ships are to be built of taxed timber, 15s. and 20s.
per load, exclusive of its freight, and expenses as much more, and to
go into competition with the foreign ships with not a shilling per
load duty or freight. You are not only obliged to compete with your
heavily-taxed ships, and to pay foreigners freight to bring you the
timber to build them, but you are obliged to carry three-fourths British
crews in these offered-up trades, while the foreigner's crews are to be
all of his own country, half-paid and half-fed. You know well the wages
and feeding of foreign crews; you have all been witnesses and are daily
witnesses of it. It is a truth, and undeniable, that these foreigners
have only from 15s. to 25s., the highest wages per month. It is thus
with Danes, Russians, Prussians, Swedes, and Norwegians, while your
wages are more than twice as much--60s. per month. They can be fed,
too, on 6d. per day--in most instances, much less; while British seamen
cannot be fed under 1s. per day, to feed them as their climate and
constitutions require--hence their extraordinary energies. Yet, with
these great disadvantages, in ships, wages, and provisions, it is
determined to risk three-fourths of the commercial marine of Britain in
a contest with foreigners that must be overwhelming. But Mr. Labouchere
feels no difficulties, has no political qualms of conscience, in thus
offering up a sacrifice three-fourths of the commercial marine of Great
Britain. He says, 'Look at the results of the same system tried so far
back as the beginning of the seventeenth century in Holland--the Dutch
by free trade became the most prosperous nation in Europe. Look at her
great commercial marine. Under it the carriers of the world--her ships
were on every sea.' It is very surprising that this gentleman did not
continue to follow history in that country and at home since that period
downwards. The iron-headed Cromwell, great by his acts, had the sagacity
to perceive that the commercial marine was the soul of the navy, and
that as long as the Dutch had the carrying trade, Britain and other
colonies were in danger. So he strengthened the old restrictive laws of
Richard II., Henry VII., and Elizabeth, and passed the navigation laws,
under which the British commercial marine has been protected to the
present time, with the exception of the tampering they have met with
lately. And what has been the result? The Dutch, with her free-trade
system, has sunk her commercial marine to the lowest condition, while
Britain, with her protective system, has grown a commercial marine,
the greatest the world ever saw--her ships in every sea, her flag
overshadowing the world. How does it happen--and let Mr. Labouchere
and the whig government answer--how does it happen that the Dutch
commercial marine has been ruined by the free-trade system, and that we
have grown great, _pari passu_, by a restrictive system? But figures
are appealed to by the present government to show that since the
introduction of the reciprocity treaties, or free trade in a limited
extent, our commercial marine has greatly increased.

"These figures Mr. Labouchere adduces as a strong argument in favour of
Mr. Huskisson's relaxations, commencing at the former period. Observe
these figures more closely, and you will find that the tonnage of the
United Kingdom, to which the reciprocity treaties apply, have increased
considerably under one-half, while the trade to which they did not apply
has more than trebled its tonnage. To overwhelm the defalcations in
the British trade with the reciprocity states, by the extended or more
prosperous state of the general trade, was both unfair and disingenuous.
Yet, this has Mr. Labouchere not a moment hesitated to do. Knowing, for
he must have known, that the British commercial marine, in its trade
with the reciprocity states, had either decreased or only in a smaller
proportion increased with those states, it was a great fallacy and a
deceit for him to proclaim it as the source of prosperity. How stand the
facts with the reciprocity countries.

"In twenty-two years, then, there has been a decrease of British tonnage
employed in three of the five principal reciprocity states, and an
enormous increase of foreign tonnage in four of the five states. In
the two states where British tonnage has increased, the foreign, or the
tonnage of the same states, has infinitely surpassed it; in Denmark,
2793 to 82,284; and in the United States, 160,129 to 281,924; and yet
a British minister of state cites the cause of the increase of British
tonnage to the reciprocity treaties as a reason for this momentous
change. In thirty years averaging twenty of the reciprocity treaties,
our tonnage has increased only 38 per cent., while our population and
its wants have increased 50 per cent., and imports 104 per cent. Thus,
in every phase that the question is presented to us, the shipping
appears to have kept no pace with the other interests of the kingdom,
presenting to our view some great obstructive cause; and that cause, I
humbly submit, is the reciprocity system adopted so generally in
1824. Notwithstanding which, here have we a government insisting upon
extending, without a moment's hesitation, this system which has already
so deeply injured us, to three-fourths of the commercial marine of
this country. And what are the flimsy pretences in addition? Why, that
Prussia has threatened on one hand, and the United States coaxed on the
other, and that British masters and mates are intemperate, and
British seamen insubordinate. I will take the libel first, and ask Mr.
Labouchere and the whig government how it happens that British ships,
commanded by such masters and manned by such crews, are at the great
marine insurance office of the world, Lloyds, always insured 1 per
cent., 1 1/2 and 2 per cent, lower than the eulogised foreign ships,
with their masters and crews? Will they explain that indubitable fact?
And also, I beg to know of these sage legislators the cause that in
the winters of 1846-47, out of two hundred and ninety-four corn-laden
British ships from America, there were only three foundered, while out
of four hundred and thirty United States' ships performing the same
voyage, with similar cargoes, seventeen foundered. And how out of the
same number four British only were stranded, while there were twelve
American? Not a fourth part of the casualties amongst the British that
there were amongst the United States ships; yet the Americans are an
experienced, gallant, and well-conducted race of seamen. These things
gave the broadest refutation to such a calumnious charge. It is not wise
for a minister of state of Britain to proclaim to the world a character
of the bravest and most important class of men of Britain, that
disgraces them indelibly, injures the property of their employers, and
dishonours the country. The twenty thousand gallant schoolmasters afloat
that are busy day and night, educating and developing the powers of
the future defenders of Britain, making them able and worthy sons--the
ablest and worthiest of their great country--to be thus traduced by
those who should ever and above all protect them, is an act of the most
revolting nature."

The effect of Mr. Mather's exertions were seen in a grand demonstration
on the 9th of February, in London, which, in deference to the civic
authorities, was made on the river, rather than, as originally intended,
in the streets of London and Westminster. According to the _Shipping
Gazette_, there were ten thousand seamen from the Tyne and its
neighbourhood in the port of London that day. On the evening previous to
the demonstration, the crews of all British vessels in the Thames were
in a high state of excitement, full of preparation for the morrow.
Between three and four hundred vessels were in the Pool, the Gallions,
Bugsby's Hole, and Longreach, and their crews manifested the utmost
eagerness to show their sense of what they considered their rights.
The next day a grand procession of boats, partly tugged by steamers,
proceeded to Westminster Bridge. The vessels and boats carried the
union jack, and various flags; the sailors were dressed in their holiday
suits, and bore the words "Navigation Laws" round their hats, in large
yellow letters, the masters and mates in gilt letters. The _Standard_
newspaper estimated the number of seamen in the procession at about
fifteen thousand. The banks of the river and the bridges were crowded
with spectators, whose sympathy was shown in every way that the most
enthusiastic popular feeling could evince. Cheers rang along the river,
cannons were fired, and the leaders of the demonstration, Mr. Mather,
Captain Smith, and Mr. Butchert, were received everywhere with the
loudest plaudits of the people. The appearance of the boats and
steamers, manned by tars in their best attire, and bearing gay flags,
was exceedingly picturesque. Perhaps no metropolitan sight so imposing
had been witnessed by the generation of Londoners then living. The wind
was boisterous and the sky lowering; the procession had also to make its
way against tide; but these obstacles only broke the formality of the
line of procession, while evoking an activity on the part of those who
manned the boats, which heightened the interest of the scene, giving
characteristic traits to a procession afloat, which in gentler weather
it would not have exhibited. Even the cloudiness of the sky aided
the picture, which would have been seen to less advantage under a
glaring sunshine; yet, occasionally, the clouds broke away, and the sun
fell upon the scene with that splendour, which, if wholly wanting, would
have deprived the view of much of its effect.

The following is a copy of the memorial presented by the deputation:--

"TO HER MOST GRACIOUS MAJESTY.

"_The loyal and humble memorial of the masters, mates, seamen,
shipwrights, and other naval artizans now assembled in London, and the
delegates representing the outports of the kingdom_.

"May it please tour Majesty,--We, your majesty's loyal and dutiful
subjects, beg most respectfully to approach your majesty to lay
this humble memorial at the foot of the throne, believing that
the subject-matter of it involves not only the well-being of your
memorialists, but the security of your majesty's dominions in every part
of the world.

"Your majesty's memorialists have learnt with deep regret and
indignation that it is seriously contemplated to repeal the navigation
laws, the principle of which, for the protection and encouragement of
British ships and British seamen has been the undeviating policy of this
maritime state for nearly five hundred years.

"Your memorialists most respectfully and loyally, but firmly, as ardent
friends of their country, which they sincerely love, beg to represent to
your majesty that the repeal of the navigation laws will bring ruin on
your memorialists and the commercial marine of Britain.

"That by such a measure, admitting the cheap foreign ships, half-paid
and ill-fed foreign seamen, of which your memorialists have the most
correct personal knowledge, it will reduce, by a competition, the lowest
in the world, the condition of your memorialists, and their families,
and strike a blow at their very existence.

"That thus your memorialists will be driven to seek employment in
another state, speaking the same language and possessing similar laws,
where seamen's interests and seamen's rights are carefully attended to,
and where thousands of British seamen have already found protection--so
weakening your majesty's empire, and giving additional strength to an
already great maritime competitor.

"Your memorialists, therefore, urgently pray your majesty to throw your
royal protection around your memorialists, and the commercial marine of
Great Britain, whose predecessors in all ages in time of war and danger,
your ancestors and this kingdom have ever found their best protection
and their greatest glory.

"God bless your majesty, and counsel you in wisdom, your petitioners
will ever pray."

This demonstration, while it postponed the repeal of the navigation
laws, did not avert various modifications in our maritime code,
which were made in the ensuing year. The consequences were not so
disadvantageous as those who objected to the experiment feared, whereas
the abettors of repeal contend that free trade in ships and sailors has
proved, like free trade in corn, advantageous to the country.

Soon after the demonstration, Sir George Grey wrote to Mr. Mather,
assuring him that her majesty had received the memorial in the most
gracious manner.


REWARDS FOR INDIA SERVICE.

The conduct of the officers and men, who had served so gallantly in
the Punjaub, received the approval of the country, parliament, and the
throne. Medals were struck off for officers and privates alike, and
clasps appended for the separate battles of Sobraon, Aliwal, and
Perozashooshah. Honours of various kinds were conferred upon the
officers who had distinguished themselves. Lieutenant Edwardes was
promoted to the rank of major; but the Company's being a seniority
service, the friends of routine vigorously opposed the gallant and
skilful young lieutenant's promotion. He was also made a C.B. The
Company, in other and substantial forms, indicated its approval of this
officer's very valuable services.


REFORM OF THE CAMBRIDGE UNIVERSITY.

The syndicate, regarding the study of classics and mathematics as the
basis of a superior education, yet nevertheless was of opinion that
greater encouragement ought to be afforded to the pursuit of various
other branches of learning, which in the general community were
acquiring more importance, recommended various improvements in the
curriculum to that end. The study of mental and moral philosophy,
natural history, chemistry, &c, were in future to be stimulated, and
every facility afforded to those who desired high attainments in these
and some other branches of learning. This movement was not very popular
in the university, but gave great satisfaction to the general public.


THE COURT.

There were but few incidents which especially concerned the royal
family, but these were important. On the 18th of March her majesty gave
birth to a princess, her fourth daughter. The baptism took place on the
13th of May, in the private chapel at Buckingham Palace. The Archbishop
of Canterbury officiated. The Duke of Mecklenburg-Schwerin, the Duchess
of Saxe-Meinengen, and the Grandduchess of Mecklenburg-Strelitz, were
the sponsors, represented by Prince Albert, the queen-dowager, and the
Duchess of Cambridge, as proxies. The name of the princess was Louisa
Carolina Alberta. The queen gave a state banquet in the picture-gallery,
in honour of the occasion, and afterwards an evening party..

On the 27th of May her Royal Highness the Princess Sophia died at
Kensington Palace. She expired in her arm-chair, painlessly, at the age
of seventy-one. She was the twelfth daughter of George III., and was
born on the 3rd of November, 1777.


PARLIAMENTARY PROCEEDINGS.

