'That is impossible,' said Felix, 'unless the Froggatts would do it.'

'Eighteen!' said Lance. 'I'm sixteen, and up to the ways of the
place! Why don't you set me to work before I have eaten my head off?'

'It would not do for you afterwards,' said Felix; 'I don't like your
rushing out to serve.'

'But really, Felix, I mean it. I can do all Redstone does, except
lifting some of the weights; and I am as old as you when you began.'

'No, no, Lance; your line is cut out for you.'

'It was,' said Lance, 'but I'm off it, and no good as I am; and if
you could save Redstone's salary, you might send Bear to
Stoneborough, instead of letting him stay here and go to the dogs.'

'Ah!' groaned Felix, 'it is hard that all this should come to upset
his chances.'

'Are you really afraid those rascals can do us much harm?'

'We have a sound county circulation beyond their reach, but every
copy they sell is so much out of our pockets; and there are so many
people possessed with a love of the low and scurrilous, as well as so
many who differ in politics, that it must thrive unless they stultify
themselves. Don't look so appalled, Lancey boy; we aint coming to
grief, only it will be a close shave at home this winter.'

'Then, Felix, let me help! You don't know the comfort it would be.'

'Not so loud,' said Felix, stepping into the shop. Lance stood
thoughtful, then hearing more footsteps, ran out, and found two or
three boys come for school materials, and some maids waiting to
change volumes for their ladies. He gave his ready help; and there
ensued a lull, for it was a wet day, such as to make Mr. Froggatt's
coming doubtful. Felix took a second survey of the applications.

'Now, Fee, do think about this; I am in earnest.'

'So am I, Lance; I am very thankful to you, but it is not to be
thought of.'

'Why not? Am I too small? For that's mending. There's one good thing
in being ill, it sets one growing. My thick go-to-meeting trousers
that I left at Minsterham are gone up to my ancles; I must ask Wilmet
if Clem hasn't left a pair that have got too seedy for Cambridge.'

'It is not that, Lance, but the disadvantage it might be to you in
after-life.'

'If I took to it for good?'

'No, no, Lance; one is enough.'

'Stay. Don't shut me up that way. Recollect what this horrid
donothingness is doing for me. I am losing all chance of the
exhibition, and they can't keep me on at the Cathedral without, for
my voice has got like an old crow's; and besides, if I can't read,
what's the good of standing for scholarships?'

'You will feel very differently when your head is stronger. Besides,
if there should be anything in what we were told at Ewmouth, it would
be a pity to get more involved with trade.'

'I thought that was never to be spoken of.'

'And this is my first time. Don't take it as a licence.'

'I could see the sense of that, if it were you,' said Lance, 'but not
for No. 5.'

'No. 1 would have his place and work found for him, but No. 5 might
not find it easy to turn to something else.'

'Well!' said Lance, considering, 'you said that possibility was not
to make any difference to us. Wouldn't it be making the wrong sort of
difference to let it keep a great lout like me in idleness while
Bernard is going to the bad?'

'What do you mean about Bernard?' said Felix, now thoroughly roused.
'Is it worse than you and Fulbert were in your gamin days?'

'I am afraid so,' said Lance. 'Ful took better care of himself than
he seemed to do, and his friends were decent fellows, not like the
lot that have hooked in poor little Bear.'

'I suppose it was some scrape of his that took you into Smoke-jack
Alley. I thought you would get him out best without me.'

'The little dog, he was always after me when I didn't want him, but
now I can't get at him. In short, there's nothing for it but cutting
the connection between him and Jem Nares.'

