The formidable monarchy which Charles V.  and his son had unnaturally
constructed of the Netherlands, Milan, and the two Sicilies, and their
distant possessions in the East and West Indies, was under Philip III.
and Philip IV.  fast verging to decay.  Swollen to a sudden greatness by
unfruitful gold, this power was now sinking under a visible decline,
neglecting, as it did, agriculture, the natural support of states.  The
conquests in the West Indies had reduced Spain itself to poverty, while
they enriched the markets of Europe; the bankers of Antwerp, Venice, and
Genoa, were making profit on the gold which was still buried in the
mines of Peru.  For the sake of India, Spain had been depopulated, while
the treasures drawn from thence were wasted in the re-conquest of
Holland, in the chimerical project of changing the succession to the
crown of France, and in an unfortunate attack upon England.  But the
pride of this court had survived its greatness, as the hate of its
enemies had outlived its power.  Distrust of the Protestants suggested
to the ministry of Philip III.  the dangerous policy of his father; and
the reliance of the Roman Catholics in Germany on Spanish assistance,
was as firm as their belief in the wonder-working bones of the martyrs.
External splendour concealed the inward wounds at which the life-blood
of this monarchy was oozing; and the belief of its strength survived,
because it still maintained the lofty tone of its golden days.  Slaves
in their palaces, and strangers even upon their own thrones, the Spanish
nominal kings still gave laws to their German relations; though it is
very doubtful if the support they afforded was worth the dependence by
which the emperors purchased it.  The fate of Europe was decided behind
the Pyrenees by ignorant monks or vindictive favourites.  Yet, even in
its debasement, a power must always be formidable, which yields to none
in extent; which, from custom, if not from the steadfastness of its
views, adhered faithfully to one system of policy; which possessed
well-disciplined armies and consummate generals; which, where the sword
failed, did not scruple to employ the dagger; and converted even its
ambassadors into incendiaries and assassins.  What it had lost in three
quarters of the globe, it now sought to regain to the eastward, and all
Europe was at its mercy, if it could succeed in its long cherished
design of uniting with the hereditary dominions of Austria all that lay
between the Alps and the Adriatic.

To the great alarm of the native states, this formidable power had
gained a footing in Italy, where its continual encroachments made the
neighbouring sovereigns to tremble for their own possessions.  The Pope
himself was in the most dangerous situation; hemmed in on both sides by
the Spanish Viceroys of Naples on the one side, and that of Milan upon
the other.  Venice was confined between the Austrian Tyrol and the
Spanish territories in Milan.  Savoy was surrounded by the latter and
France.  Hence the wavering and equivocal policy, which from the time of
Charles V.  had been pursued by the Italian States.  The double
character which pertained to the Popes made them perpetually vacillate
between two contradictory systems of policy.  If the successors of St.
Peter found in the Spanish princes their most obedient disciples, and
the most steadfast supporters of the Papal See, yet the princes of the
States of the Church had in these monarchs their most dangerous
neighbours, and most formidable opponents.  If, in the one capacity,
their dearest wish was the destruction of the Protestants, and the
triumph of Austria, in the other, they had reason to bless the arms of
the Protestants, which disabled a dangerous enemy.  The one or the other
sentiment prevailed, according as the love of temporal dominion, or zeal
for spiritual supremacy, predominated in the mind of the Pope.  But the
policy of Rome was, on the whole, directed to immediate dangers; and it
is well known how far more powerful is the apprehension of losing a
present good, than anxiety to recover a long lost possession.  And thus
it becomes intelligible how the Pope should first combine with Austria
for the destruction of heresy, and then conspire with these very
heretics for the destruction of Austria.  Strangely blended are the
threads of human affairs!  What would have become of the Reformation,
and of the liberties of Germany, if the Bishop of Rome and the Prince of
Rome had had but one interest?

France had lost with its great Henry all its importance and all its
weight in the political balance of Europe.  A turbulent minority had
destroyed all the benefits of the able administration of Henry.
Incapable ministers, the creatures of court intrigue, squandered in a
few years the treasures which Sully's economy and Henry's frugality had
amassed.  Scarce able to maintain their ground against internal
factions, they were compelled to resign to other hands the helm of
European affairs.  The same civil war which armed Germany against
itself, excited a similar commotion in France; and Louis XIII.  attained
majority only to wage a war with his own mother and his Protestant
subjects.  This party, which had been kept quiet by Henry's enlightened
policy, now seized the opportunity to take up arms, and, under the
command of some adventurous leaders, began to form themselves into a
party within the state, and to fix on the strong and powerful town of
Rochelle as the capital of their intended kingdom.  Too little of a
statesman to suppress, by a prudent toleration, this civil commotion in
its birth, and too little master of the resources of his kingdom to
direct them with energy, Louis XIII.  was reduced to the degradation of
purchasing the submission of the rebels by large sums of money.  Though
policy might incline him, in one point of view, to assist the Bohemian
insurgents against Austria, the son of Henry the Fourth was now
compelled to be an inactive spectator of their destruction, happy enough
if the Calvinists in his own dominions did not unseasonably bethink them
of their confederates beyond the Rhine.  A great mind at the helm of
state would have reduced the Protestants in France to obedience, while
it employed them to fight for the independence of their German brethren.
But Henry IV.  was no more, and Richelieu had not yet revived his system
of policy.

While the glory of France was thus upon the wane, the emancipated
republic of Holland was completing the fabric of its greatness.  The
enthusiastic courage had not yet died away which, enkindled by the House
of Orange, had converted this mercantile people into a nation of heroes,
and had enabled them to maintain their independence in a bloody war
against the Spanish monarchy.  Aware how much they owed their own
liberty to foreign support, these republicans were ready to assist their
German brethren in a similar cause, and the more so, as both were
opposed to the same enemy, and the liberty of Germany was the best
warrant for that of Holland.  But a republic which had still to battle
for its very existence, which, with all its wonderful exertions, was
scarce a match for the formidable enemy within its own territories,
could not be expected to withdraw its troops from the necessary work of
self-defence to employ them with a magnanimous policy in protecting
foreign states.

England too, though now united with Scotland, no longer possessed, under
the weak James, that influence in the affairs of Europe which the
governing mind of Elizabeth had procured for it.  Convinced that the
welfare of her dominions depended on the security of the Protestants,
this politic princess had never swerved from the principle of promoting
every enterprise which had for its object the diminution of the Austrian
power.  Her successor was no less devoid of capacity to comprehend, than
of vigour to execute, her views.  While the economical Elizabeth spared
not her treasures to support the Flemings against Spain, and Henry IV.
against the League, James abandoned his daughter, his son-in-law, and
his grandchild, to the fury of their enemies.  While he exhausted his
learning to establish the divine right of kings, he allowed his own
dignity to sink into the dust; while he exerted his rhetoric to prove
the absolute authority of kings, he reminded the people of theirs; and
by a useless profusion, sacrificed the chief of his sovereign rights--
that of dispensing with his parliament, and thus depriving liberty of
its organ.  An innate horror at the sight of a naked sword averted him
from the most just of wars; while his favourite Buckingham practised on
his weakness, and his own complacent vanity rendered him an easy dupe of
Spanish artifice.  While his son-in-law was ruined, and the inheritance
of his grandson given to others, this weak prince was imbibing, with
satisfaction, the incense which was offered to him by Austria and Spain.
I had seen it now again, the woman whose mere name sooner an outbreak
of passions, love, hatred, revenge in me was unleashed. What else is
up to us by the child, we thirty, forty, fifty years once were? Our
whole body has since been renewed, we may have no thought and no
feeling from those that we had back then, but that we are is the
safest thing we know. Oh, by the Marmotte, which I once called my was
nothing there, and yet I had in the only moment in the years and the
disease destroyed face same face seen her as a child has been
intrinsically liked: of innocence, love and kindness zusammengezaubert.

It was only as a mental phenomenon there, and I know not with what eyes
I have seen. The Corporal was an aging, terminally ill woman, a
plant similar to the one night of frost surprised mummy is liable
in the sunshine.

There was nothing more to my poor Marmotte, what the passion of any man
would have been excited, but it was so expensive to me, so
precious and sacred, that I would have not hesitated, to give my life
if I had their luck so that you can purchase. Poor, powerless creature,
I thought, thou shalt not suffer more! What it might cost me, how hard
the consequences might be for me, I will bring you peace. And if all
your torment to me went through, so I wanted to accept it and glad that
you could rest instead. Before, I thought, I need me certainty about the
nature and degree of their illness give, but you showed me the sight
superfluous how advanced it was. Ursula and I am the door close behind
him down the stairs and listened, I raised myself, and called me
the Marmotte.

I sat on the edge of her bed and said how glad I had that Ursula
would have it, and I hardly have failed, they auszulachen because they
would not recognize me. 'I would immediately recognize you,' she said,
and then we are talking of the past and exchanged small memories. Also
from their illness, their operations, and how it was treated, she told
me at my request. Her voice was unchanged, but almost sweeter than
before. You sounded like you most of the evening in a remote mountain
alphorn hear the rosy, green and gray colors of the horizon mitzutönen
seem dämmernden. While we spoke, she held one of my hands firmly
between her and even kissed them and said: 'You dear, good, beautiful
hand, I have often thought of you and that you would save me! "It wants
half an hours have elapsed, since I saw in her face, that a seizure of
pain in the suit was, And I thought now was the moment. I would have
something to her to distribute the pain, I said, and wanted it now
in the kitchen get ready so we could weiterplaudern undisturbed.

'Will it hurt? " she asked, by me that was frightened, and her mouth
trembled angle. Poor, small, timid Marmotte! Despite the death herbeiwünschte,
fearing it was before him. I laughed and said: 'What do you think,
so fast, it is not. First I want to watch yourself a little, because
maybe you can circumspect treatment by once again be healthy. "
His views were not a little forwarded by
Sigismund's imprudence.  A general Diet ventured to abolish, in favour
of the Protector, the rule of primogeniture which Gustavus had
established in the succession, and placed the Duke of Sudermania on the
throne, from which Sigismund, with his whole posterity, were solemnly
excluded.  The son of the new king (who reigned under the name of
Charles IX.) was Gustavus Adolphus, whom, as the son of a usurper, the
adherents of Sigismund refused to recognize.  But if the obligations
between monarchy and subjects are reciprocal, and states are not to be
transmitted, like a lifeless heirloom, from hand to hand, a nation
acting with unanimity must have the power of renouncing their allegiance
to a sovereign who has violated his obligations to them, and of filling
his place by a worthier object.

Gustavus Adolphus had not completed his seventeenth year, when the
Swedish throne became vacant by the death of his father.  But the early
maturity of his genius enabled the Estates to abridge in his favour the
legal period of minority.  With a glorious conquest over himself he
commenced a reign which was to have victory for its constant attendant,
a career which was to begin and end in success.  The young Countess of
Brahe, the daughter of a subject, had gained his early affections, and
he had resolved to share with her the Swedish throne.  But, constrained
by time and circumstances, he made his attachment yield to the higher
duties of a king, and heroism again took exclusive possession of a heart
which was not destined by nature to confine itself within the limits of
quiet domestic happiness.

Christian IV.  of Denmark, who had ascended the throne before the birth
of Gustavus, in an inroad upon Sweden, had gained some considerable
advantages over the father of that hero.  Gustavus Adolphus hastened to
put an end to this destructive war, and by prudent sacrifices obtained a
peace, in order to turn his arms against the Czar of Muscovy.  The
questionable fame of a conqueror never tempted him to spend the blood of
his subjects in unjust wars; but he never shrunk from a just one.  His
arms were successful against Russia, and Sweden was augmented by several
important provinces on the east.

In the meantime, Sigismund of Poland retained against the son the same
sentiments of hostility which the father had provoked, and left no
artifice untried to shake the allegiance of his subjects, to cool the
ardour of his friends, and to embitter his enemies.  Neither the great
qualities of his rival, nor the repeated proofs of devotion which Sweden
gave to her loved monarch, could extinguish in this infatuated prince
the foolish hope of regaining his lost throne.  All Gustavus's overtures
were haughtily rejected.  Unwillingly was this really peaceful king
involved in a tedious war with Poland, in which the whole of Livonia and
Polish Prussia were successively conquered.  Though constantly
victorious, Gustavus Adolphus was always the first to hold out the hand
of peace.

This contest between Sweden and Poland falls somewhere about the
beginning of the Thirty Years' War in Germany, with which it is in some
measure connected.  It was enough that Sigismund, himself a Roman
Catholic, was disputing the Swedish crown with a Protestant prince, to
assure him the active support of Spain and Austria; while a double
relationship to the Emperor gave him a still stronger claim to his
protection.  It was his reliance on this powerful assistance that
chiefly encouraged the King of Poland to continue the war, which had
hitherto turned out so unfavourably for him, and the courts of Madrid
and Vienna failed not to encourage him by high-sounding promises.  While
Sigismund lost one place after another in Livonia, Courland, and
Prussia, he saw his ally in Germany advancing from conquest after
conquest to unlimited power.  No wonder then if his aversion to peace
kept pace with his losses.  The vehemence with which he nourished his
chimerical hopes blinded him to the artful policy of his confederates,
who at his expense were keeping the Swedish hero employed, in order to
overturn, without opposition, the liberties of Germany, and then to
seize on the exhausted North as an easy conquest.  One circumstance
which had not been calculated on--the magnanimity of Gustavus--
overthrew this deceitful policy.  We have an unusually irritable Deruga
people, but what excites him is the bad, ugly, disharmonious. The
fact that it consists of selfish reasons or out of someone who had done
wrong, that is until now no example before. "" Jealousy, then,
is surely self-seeking, "said the prosecutor," particularly if no
reason is given.

Also, it is not, especially in people who are morbidly predisposed, or to
correct words that are not in balance, the more mature and higher
age of childhood and youth an equal footing.

We look at the father of the accused, as his disastrous investments
with age more prominent, and how perishable him the removal of
inhibition was the presence of his pious woman meant for him. Something
similar is lies with the accused before: With the separation from his
perfectly decent, good woman begins his case. "" His case, "said the
Judiciary left," because I must protest, or expression so clear that
it is a departure from the traditional, well-acting career. It is,
however, Deruga a certain neglect of the external position, say,
outer honor to have occurred. This needs but the moral decay of
people do not go hand in hand to go. It can even be a greater
interiorization related. As a citizen I am, however, for the bourgeois
order. But we must not forget that the state and any man-made form of
forces lives to him from outside, say from my chaotic flows. "An ironic
smile distorted the face of the prosecutor. "That is philosophy," said
he, "and philosophy can also be the need for mass murderers and Giftmischern
prove. We however have made it quite simply and with simple criminal
acts to be done. Christ was to allow the tax collectors and sinners
to love, we must humble ourselves, to punish them. "The chairman made
the gesture with which chalk marks from a panel clears. "That leads
to far," he said, and then turned to the witness: "Have you ever
performances with your friends with?" "I? Never, never!

"Said Gabussi lively," and it is certainly not easy to me ends meet.
My phlegmatic temperament, which I now once nature has given,
has a fiery nature, as my friend is in itself irritating. My slowness
in him would have to think it can often impatient. Instead, he was
always willing restorative and helpful. "" An angel, "continued the
prosecutor added grinning." Did the accused have many friends other
than you? "Asked Dr. = = Zeunemann." He stood with almost all
good, "said Gabussi , "but he was only friends with me. I am convinced
that not only his affairs so well as I knew. "" That is really
weird, "said the chairman," when a man, whose fiery, gregarious temperament
stress yourself. "" Yes, one might think «Gabussi said," and when he was
among his school companions, and later saw his comrades study, it had
to say, he was with all verbrüdert. I remember that I am not heranwagte
him because I thought I was with my clumsiness he could not be
covered by so many as a family was surrounded. But this affability that
he had in itself, and each attracted, it was only the veil, which
he wrapped his soul, in order to make them inaccessible.

Nobody is harder to know when he, the heart on the tongue seems to have.

Had the Evangelic Union been worthy of
the name it bore, and of the cause which it pretended to defend,
insuperable obstacles might have prevented the execution of the
sentence; but it was hopeless for a power which was far from a match
even for the Spanish troops in the Lower Palatinate, to contend against
the united strength of the Emperor, Bavaria, and the League.  The
sentence of proscription pronounced upon the Elector soon detached the
free cities from the Union; and the princes quickly followed their
example.  Fortunate in preserving their own dominions, they abandoned
the Elector, their former chief, to the Emperor's mercy, renounced the
Union, and vowed never to revive it again.

But while thus ingloriously the German princes deserted the unfortunate
Frederick, and while Bohemia, Silesia, and Moravia submitted to the
Emperor, a single man, a soldier of fortune, whose only treasure was his
sword, Ernest Count Mansfeld, dared, in the Bohemian town of Pilsen, to
defy the whole power of Austria.  Left without assistance after the
battle of Prague by the Elector, to whose service he had devoted
himself, and even uncertain whether Frederick would thank him for his
perseverance, he alone for some time held out against the imperialists,
till the garrison, mutinying for want of pay, sold the town to the
Emperor.  Undismayed by this reverse, he immediately commenced new
levies in the Upper Palatinate, and enlisted the disbanded troops of the
Union.  A new army of 20,000 men was soon assembled under his banners,
the more formidable to the provinces which might be the object of its
attack, because it must subsist by plunder.  Uncertain where this swarm
might light, the neighbouring bishops trembled for their rich
possessions, which offered a tempting prey to its ravages.  But, pressed
by the Duke of Bavaria, who now entered the Upper Palatinate, Mansfeld
was compelled to retire.  Eluding, by a successful stratagem, the
Bavarian general, Tilly, who was in pursuit of him, he suddenly appeared
in the Lower Palatinate, and there wreaked upon the bishoprics of the
Rhine the severities he had designed for those of Franconia.  While the
imperial and Bavarian allies thus overran Bohemia, the Spanish general,
Spinola, had penetrated with a numerous army from the Netherlands into
the Lower Palatinate, which, however, the pacification of Ulm permitted
the Union to defend.  But their measures were so badly concerted, that
one place after another fell into the hands of the Spaniards; and at
last, when the Union broke up, the greater part of the country was in
the possession of Spain.  The Spanish general, Corduba, who commanded
these troops after the recall of Spinola, hastily raised the siege of
Frankenthal, when Mansfeld entered the Lower Palatinate.  But instead of
driving the Spaniards out of this province, he hastened across the Rhine
to secure for his needy troops shelter and subsistence in Alsace.  The
open countries on which this swarm of maurauders threw themselves were
converted into frightful deserts, and only by enormous contributions
could the cities purchase an exemption from plunder.  Reinforced by this
expedition, Mansfeld again appeared on the Rhine to cover the Lower
Palatinate.

So long as such an arm fought for him, the cause of the Elector
Frederick was not irretrievably lost.  New prospects began to open, and
misfortune raised up friends who had been silent during his prosperity.
King James of England, who had looked on with indifference while his
son-in-law lost the Bohemian crown, was aroused from his insensibility
when the very existence of his daughter and grandson was at stake, and
the victorious enemy ventured an attack upon the Electorate.  Late
enough, he at last opened his treasures, and hastened to afford supplies
of money and troops, first to the Union, which at that time was
defending the Lower Palatinate, and afterwards, when they retired, to
Count Mansfeld.  By his means his near relation, Christian, King of
Denmark, was induced to afford his active support.  At the same time,
the approaching expiration of the truce between Spain and Holland
deprived the Emperor of all the supplies which otherwise he might expect
from the side of the Netherlands.  More important still was the
assistance which the Palatinate received from Transylvania and Hungary.
The cessation of hostilities between Gabor and the Emperor was scarcely
at an end, when this old and formidable enemy of Austria overran Hungary
anew, and caused himself to be crowned king in Presburg.  So rapid was
his progress that, to protect Austria and Hungary, Boucquoi was obliged
to evacuate Bohemia.  This brave general met his death at the siege of
Neuhausel, as, shortly before, the no less valiant Dampierre had fallen
before Presburg.  Gabor's march into the Austrian territory was
irresistible; the old Count Thurn, and several other distinguished
Bohemians, had united their hatred and their strength with this
irreconcileable enemy of Austria.  A vigorous attack on the side of
Germany, while Gabor pressed the Emperor on that of Hungary, might have
retrieved the fortunes of Frederick; but, unfortunately, the Bohemians
and Germans had always laid down their arms when Gabor took the field;
and the latter was always exhausted at the very moment that the former
began to recover their vigour.

Meanwhile Frederick had not delayed to join his protector Mansfeld.  In
disguise he entered the Lower Palatinate, of which the possession was at
that time disputed between Mansfeld and the Bavarian general, Tilly, the
Upper Palatinate having been long conquered.  A ray of hope shone upon
him as, from the wreck of the Union, new friends came forward.  A former
member of the Union, George Frederick, Margrave of Baden, had for some
time been engaged in assembling a military force, which soon amounted to
a considerable army.  Its destination was kept a secret till he suddenly
took the field and joined Mansfeld.  Before commencing the war, he
resigned his Margraviate to his son, in the hope of eluding, by this
precaution, the Emperor's revenge, if his enterprize should be
unsuccessful.  His neighbour, the Duke of Wirtemberg, likewise began to
augment his military force.  The courage of the Palatine revived, and he
laboured assiduously to renew the Protestant Union.  It was now time for
Tilly to consult for his own safety, and he hastily summoned the Spanish
troops, under Corduba, to his assistance.  But while the enemy was
uniting his strength, Mansfeld and the Margrave separated, and the
latter was defeated by the Bavarian general near Wimpfen (1622).

To defend a king whom his nearest relation persecuted, and who was
deserted even by his own father-in-law, there had come forward an
adventurer without money, and whose very legitimacy was questioned.  A
sovereign had resigned possessions over which he reigned in peace, to
hazard the uncertain fortune of war in behalf of a stranger.  And now
another soldier of fortune, poor in territorial possessions, but rich in
illustrious ancestry, undertook the defence of a cause which the former
despaired of.  Christian, Duke of Brunswick, administrator of
Halberstadt, seemed to have learnt from Count Mansfeld the secret of
keeping in the field an army of 20,000 men without money.  Impelled by
youthful presumption, and influenced partly by the wish of establishing
his reputation at the expense of the Roman Catholic priesthood, whom he
cordially detested, and partly by a thirst for plunder, he assembled a
considerable army in Lower Saxony, under the pretext of espousing the
defence of Frederick, and of the liberties of Germany.  "God's Friend,
Priest's Foe", was the motto he chose for his coinage, which was struck
out of church plate; and his conduct belied one half at least of the
device.

The progress of these banditti was, as usual, marked by the most
frightful devastation.  Enriched by the spoils of the chapters of Lower
Saxony and Westphalia, they gathered strength to plunder the bishoprics
upon the Upper Rhine.  Driven from thence, both by friends and foes, the
Administrator approached the town of Hoechst on the Maine, which he
crossed after a murderous action with Tilly, who disputed with him the
passage of the river.  With the loss of half his army he reached the
opposite bank, where he quickly collected his shattered troops, and
formed a junction with Mansfeld.  Pursued by Tilly, this united host
threw itself again into Alsace, to repeat their former ravages.  While
the Elector Frederick followed, almost like a fugitive mendicant, this
swarm of plunderers which acknowledged him as its lord, and dignified
itself with his name, his friends were busily endeavouring to effect a
reconciliation between him and the Emperor.  Ferdinand took care not to
deprive them of all hope of seeing the Palatine restored to his
dominion.  Full of artifice and dissimulation, he pretended to be
willing to enter into a negotiation, hoping thereby to cool their ardour
in the field, and to prevent them from driving matters to extremity.
James I., ever the dupe of Spanish cunning, contributed not a little, by
his foolish intermeddling, to promote the Emperor's schemes.  Ferdinand
insisted that Frederick, if he would appeal to his clemency, should,
first of all, lay down his arms, and James considered this demand
extremely reasonable.  At his instigation, the Elector dismissed his
only real defenders, Count Mansfeld and the Administrator, and in
Holland awaited his own fate from the mercy of the Emperor.

Mansfeld and Duke Christian were now at a loss for some new name; the
cause of the Elector had not set them in motion, so his dismissal could
not disarm them.  War was their object; it was all the same to them in
whose cause or name it was waged.  After some vain attempts on the part
of Mansfeld to be received into the Emperor's service, both marched into
Lorraine, where the excesses of their troops spread terror even to the
heart of France.  Here they long waited in vain for a master willing to
purchase their services; till the Dutch, pressed by the Spanish General
Spinola, offered to take them into pay.  - Errors committed in this matter
.-- Comedias layer sword and noise .-- Comedias saints, divine and
human burlesque .-- .-- .-- Festivities .-- Comedy Comedy of heroic
figurehead. CHAPTER Autos VI .-- .-- .-- Autos Autos sacramental
birth.But even Holland was soon weary
of these dangerous guests, and availed herself of the first moment to
get rid of their unwelcome assistance.  Mansfeld allowed his troops to
recruit themselves for new enterprises in the fertile province of East
Friezeland.  Duke Christian, passionately enamoured of the Electress
Palatine, with whom he had become acquainted in Holland, and more
disposed for war than ever, led back his army into Lower Saxony, bearing
that princess's glove in his hat, and on his standards the motto "All
for God and Her".  Neither of these adventurers had as yet run their
career in this war.

All the imperial territories were now free from the enemy; the Union was
dissolved; the Margrave of Baden, Duke Christian, and Mansfeld, driven
from the field, and the Palatinate overrun by the executive troops of
the empire.  Manheim and Heidelberg were in possession of Bavaria, and
Frankenthal was shortly afterwards ceded to the Spaniards.  The
Palatine, in a distant corner of Holland, awaited the disgraceful
permission to appease, by abject submission, the vengeance of the
Emperor; and an Electoral Diet was at last summoned to decide his fate.
Because, although they were einbildete, a model of reason to be, but
she could not live without playing. And when they had the money
zusammenbetteln have had to be played. Because now the grandfather was
angry that he did not, was because he dared not, but he made a long face
and sometimes a mocking remark, the grandmother wanted to bring it back
and set up like the old house at the garden fence for rent, and
it was an advertisement for the newspaper made.
Deeply as the Palatine had offended
against the House of Austria, the services of the Duke of Bavaria were
no less meritorious.  If the House of Austria and the Roman Catholic
church had much to dread from the resentment and religious rancour of
the Palatine family, they had as much to hope from the gratitude and
religious zeal of the Bavarian.  Lastly, by the cession of the Palatine
Electorate to Bavaria, the Roman Catholic religion would obtain a
decisive preponderance in the Electoral College, and secure a permanent
triumph in Germany.

