"Then the little boy took courage and told the story of his meeting
the hunter and what he had done.

"'It is well you did it in the name of the Lord,' cried his master.
'If you had not, our village would have been destroyed, and every one
of us would have been drowned.'"

"See! the children are going into the schoolhouse, Gretchen.  We must
not be late.  Let's run," said Bertha.

The two little girls stopped talking, and hurried so fast that they
entered the schoolhouse and were sitting in their seats in good order
before the schoolmaster struck his bell.


CHAPTER III.

THE WICKED BISHOP

"The Rhine is the loveliest river in the world.  I know it must be,"
said Bertha.

"Of course it is," answered her brother.  Produced by Charlene Taylor,
Jonathan Ingram, Keith Edkins and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced
from images generously made available by The Internet Library of
Early Journals."Yes, and the castles, Hans!  Think of the legends father and mother
have told us about the beautiful princesses who have lived in the
castles, and the brave knights who have fought for them!  I shall be
perfectly happy if I can ever sail down the Rhine and see the noted
places on its shores."

"The schoolmaster has taught you all about the war with France,
hasn't he, Bertha?"

"Of course.  And it really seemed at one time as if France would make
us Germans agree to have the Rhine divide the two countries.  Now unless
the third of May were supposed to possess some unusual virtue,
the dreaming on that morning could scarcely confer a whole year's
welfare.

But, be that as it may, there can at least be no doubt that Chaucer
designedly associated _some_ celebration of the advent of May with
the morning of the third of that month.

Without absolutely asserting that my explanation is the true one, I
may nevertheless suggest it until some better may be offered.
"I know all that, Hans.  But we own the best of the Rhine, anyway.  I
am perfectly satisfied."

"I wish I knew all the legends about the river.  There are enough of
them to fill many books.  Did you ever hear about the Rats' Tower
opposite the town of Bingen, Bertha?"

[Illustration:  The Rats' Tower.]

"What a funny name for a tower!  No.  Is there a story about it,
Hans?"

"Yes, one of the boys was telling it to me yesterday while we were
getting wood in the forest.  It is a good story, although my friend
said he wasn't sure it is true."

"What is the story?"

"It is about a very wicked bishop who was a miser.  It happened one
time that the harvests were poor and grain was scarce.  The cruel
bishop bought all the grain he could get and locked it up.  He
intended to sell it for a high price, and in this way to become very
rich.

"As the days went by, the food became scarcer and scarcer.  The
people began to sicken and die of hunger.  They had but one thought:
they must get something to eat for their children and themselves.

"They knew of the stores of grain held by the bishop.  They went to
him and begged for some of it, but he paid no attention to their
prayers.  Then they demanded that he open the doors of the storehouse
and let them have the grain.  It was of no use.

"At last, they gathered together, and said:

"'We will break down the door if you do not give it to us.'

"'Come to-morrow,' answered the bishop.  'Bring your friends with
you.  You shall have all the grain you desire.'

"The morrow came.  Crowds gathered in front of the granary.  The
bishop unlocked the door, saying:

"'Go inside and help yourselves freely.'

"The people rushed in.  Then what do you think the cruel bishop did?
He ordered his servants to lock the door and set the place on fire!

