Produced by Bryan Ness, Jana Srna and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


  [ Transcriber's Note:
    This e-book belongs to Tolstoy's Plays (Complete Edition). The
    front matter, including the table of contents, can be found in
    e-book #26660; it lists the other plays in the collection.

    Every effort has been made to replicate this text as faithfully as
    possible; changes (corrections of spelling and punctuation) made to
    the original text are listed at the end of this file.
  ]


                         THE POWER OF DARKNESS

                                   OR

                  IF A CLAW IS CAUGHT THE BIRD IS LOST

                          A DRAMA IN FIVE ACTS

                                 (1886)


CHARACTERS


PETER IGNÁTITCH. A well-to-do peasant, 42 years old, married for the
second time, and sickly.

ANÍSYA. His wife, 32 years old, fond of dress.

AKOULÍNA. Peter's daughter by his first marriage, 16 years old, hard of
hearing, mentally undeveloped.

NAN (ANNA PETRÓVNA). His daughter by his second marriage, 10 years old.

NIKÍTA. Their labourer, 26 years old, fond of dress.

AKÍM. Nikíta's father, 50 years old, a plain-looking, God-fearing
peasant.

MATRYÓNA. His wife and Nikíta's mother, 50 years old.

MARÍNA. An orphan girl, 22 years old.

MARTHA. Peter's sister.

MÍTRITCH. An old labourer, ex-soldier.

SIMON. Marína's husband.

BRIDEGROOM. Engaged to Akoulína.

IVÁN. His father.

A NEIGHBOUR.

FIRST GIRL.

SECOND GIRL.

POLICE OFFICER.

DRIVER.

BEST-MAN.

MATCHMAKER.

VILLAGE ELDER.

VISITORS, WOMEN, GIRLS, AND PEOPLE come to see the wedding.

N.B.--The 'oven' mentioned is the usual large, brick, Russian
baking-oven. The top of it outside is flat, so that more than one
person can lie on it.


                         THE POWER OF DARKNESS


ACT I

    The Act takes place in autumn in a large village. The Scene
    represents Peter's roomy hut. Peter is sitting on a wooden bench,
    mending a horse-collar. Anísya and Akoulína are spinning, and
    singing a part-song.


PETER [looking out of the window] The horses have got loose again. If we
don't look out they'll be killing the colt. Nikíta! Hey, Nikíta! Is the
fellow deaf? [Listens. To the women] Shut up, one can't hear anything.

NIKÍTA [from outside] What?

PETER. Drive the horses in.

NIKÍTA. We'll drive 'em in. All in good time.

PETER [shaking his head] Ah, these labourers! If I were well, I'd not
keep one on no account. There's nothing but bother with 'em. [Rises and
sits down again] Nikíta!... It's no good shouting. One of you'd better
go. Go, Akoúl, drive 'em in.

AKOULÍNA. What? The horses?

PETER. What else?

AKOULÍNA. All right. [Exit].

PETER. Ah, but he's a loafer, that lad ... no good at all. Won't stir a
finger if he can help it.

ANÍSYA. You're so mighty brisk yourself. When you're not sprawling on
the top of the oven you're squatting on the bench. To goad others to
work is all you're fit for.

PETER. If one weren't to goad you on a bit, one'd have no roof left
over one's head before the year's out. Oh what people!

ANÍSYA. You go shoving a dozen jobs on to one's shoulders, and then do
nothing but scold. It's easy to lie on the oven and give orders.

PETER [sighing] Oh, if 'twere not for this sickness that's got hold of
me, I'd not keep him on another day.

AKOULÍNA [off the scene] Gee up, gee, woo. [A colt neighs, the stamping
of horses' feet and the creaking of the gate are heard].

PETER. Bragging, that's what he's good at. I'd like to sack him, I would
indeed.

ANÍSYA [mimicking him] "Like to sack him." You buckle to yourself, and
then talk.

AKOULÍNA [enters] It's all I could do to drive 'em in. That piebald
always will ...

PETER. And where's Nikíta?

AKOULÍNA. Where's Nikíta? Why, standing out there in the street.

PETER. What's he standing there for?

AKOULÍNA. What's he standing there for? He stands there jabbering.

PETER. One can't get any sense out of her! Who's he jabbering with?

AKOULÍNA [does not hear] Eh, what?

    Peter waves her off. She sits down to her spinning.

NAN [running in to her mother] Nikíta's father and mother have come.
They're going to take him away. It's true!

ANÍSYA. Nonsense!

NAN. Yes. Blest if they're not! [Laughing] I was just going by, and
Nikíta, he says, "Good-bye, Anna Petróvna," he says, "you must come and
dance at my wedding. I'm leaving you," he says, and laughs.

ANÍSYA [to her husband] There now. Much he cares. You see, he wants to
leave of himself. "Sack him" indeed!

PETER. Well, let him go. Just as if I couldn't find somebody else.

ANÍSYA. And what about the money he's had in advance?

    Nan stands listening at the door for awhile, and then exit.

PETER [frowning] The money? Well, he can work it off in summer, anyhow.

ANÍSYA. Well, of course you'll be glad if he goes and you've not got to
feed him. It's only me as'll have to work like a horse all the winter.
That lass of yours isn't over fond of work either. And you'll be lying
up on the oven. I know you.

PETER. What's the good of wearing out one's tongue before one has the
hang of the matter?

ANÍSYA. The yard's full of cattle. You've not sold the cow, and have
kept all the sheep for the winter: feeding and watering 'em alone takes
all one's time, and you want to sack the labourer. But I tell you
straight, I'm not going to do a man's work! I'll go and lie on the top
of the oven same as you, and let everything go to pot! You may do what
you like.

PETER [to Akoulína] Go and see about the feeding, will you? it's time.

AKOULÍNA. The feeding? All right. [Puts on a coat and takes a rope].

ANÍSYA. I'm not going to work for you. You go and work yourself. I've
had enough of it, so there!

PETER. That'll do. What are you raving about? Like a sheep with the
staggers!

ANÍSYA. You're a crazy cur, you are! One gets neither work nor pleasure
from you. Eating your fill, that's all you do, you palsied cur, you!

PETER [spits and puts on coat] Faugh! The Lord have mercy! I'd better go
myself and see what's up. [Exit].

ANÍSYA [after him] Scurvy long-nosed devil!

AKOULÍNA. What are you swearing at dad for?

ANÍSYA. Hold your noise, you idiot!

AKOULÍNA [going to the door] I know why you're swearing at him. You're
an idiot yourself, you bitch. I'm not afraid of you.

ANÍSYA. What do you mean? [Jumps up and looks round for something to hit
her with] Mind, or I'll give you one with the poker.

AKOULÍNA [opening the door] Bitch! devil! that's what you are! Devil!
bitch! bitch! devil! [Runs off].

ANÍSYA [ponders] "Come and dance at my wedding!" What new plan is this?
Marry? Mind, Nikíta, if that's your intention, I'll go and ... No, I
can't live without him. I won't let him go.

NIKÍTA [enters, looks round, and seeing Anísya alone approaches quickly.
In a low tone] Here's a go; I'm in a regular fix! That governor of mine
wants to take me away,--tells me I'm to come home. Says quite straight
I'm to marry and live at home.

ANÍSYA. Well, go and marry! What's that to me?

NIKÍTA. Is that it? Why, here am I reckoning how best to consider
matters, and just hear her! She tells me to go and marry. Why's that?
[Winking] Has she forgotten?

ANÍSYA. Yes, go and marry! What do I care?

NIKÍTA. What are you spitting for? Just see, she won't even let me
stroke her.... What's the matter?

ANÍSYA. This! That you want to play me false.... If you do,--why, I
don't want you either. So now you know!

NIKÍTA. That'll do, Anísya. Do you think I'll forget you? Never while I
live! I'll not play you false, that's flat. I've been thinking that
supposing they do go and make me marry, I'd still come back to you. If
only he don't make me live at home.

ANÍSYA. Much need I'll have of you, once you're married.

NIKÍTA. There's a go now. How is it possible to go against one's
father's will?

ANÍSYA. Yes, I daresay, shove it all on your father. You know it's your
own doing. You've long been plotting with that slut of yours, Marína.
It's she has put you up to it. She didn't come here for nothing t'other
day.

NIKÍTA. Marína? What's she to me? Much I care about her!... Plenty of
them buzzing around.

ANÍSYA. Then what has made your father come here? It's you have told him
to. You've gone and deceived me. [Cries].

NIKÍTA. Anísya, do you believe in a God or not? I never so much as
dreamt of it. I know nothing at all about it. I never even dreamt of
it--that's flat! My old dad has got it all out of his own pate.

ANÍSYA. If you don't wish it yourself who can force you? He can't drive
you like an ass.

NIKÍTA. Well, I reckon it's not possible to go against one's parent. But
it's not by my wish.

ANÍSYA. Don't you budge, that's all about it!

NIKÍTA. There was a fellow wouldn't budge, and the village elder gave
him such a hiding.... That's what it might come to! I've no great wish
for that sort of thing. They say it touches one up....

ANÍSYA. Shut up with your nonsense. Nikíta, listen to me: if you marry
that Marína I don't know what I won't do to myself.... I shall lay hands
on myself! I have sinned, I have gone against the law, but I can't go
back now. If you go away I'll ...

NIKÍTA. Why should I go? Had I wanted to go--I should have gone long
ago. There was Iván Semyónitch t'other day--offered me a place as his
coachman.... Only fancy what a life that would have been! But I did not
go. Because, I reckon, I am good enough for any one. Now if you did not
love me it would be a different matter.

ANÍSYA. Yes, and that's what you should remember. My old man will die
one of these fine days, I'm thinking; then we could cover our sin, make
it all right and lawful, and then you'll be master here.

NIKÍTA. Where's the good of making plans? What do I care? I work as hard
as if I were doing it for myself. My master loves me, and his missus
loves me. And if the wenches run after me, it's not my fault, that's
flat.

ANÍSYA. And you'll love me?

NIKÍTA [embracing her] There, as you have ever been in my heart ...

MATRYÓNA [enters, and crosses herself a long time before the icón.
Nikíta and Anísya step apart] What I saw I didn't perceive, what I heard
I didn't hearken to. Playing with the lass, eh? Well,--even a calf will
play. Why shouldn't one have some fun when one's young? But your master
is out in the yard a-calling you, sonnie.

NIKÍTA. I only came to get the axe.

MATRYÓNA. I know, sonnie, I know; them sort of axes are mostly to be
found where the women are.

NIKÍTA [stooping to pick up axe] I say, mother, is it true you want me
to marry? As I reckon, that's quite unnecessary. Besides, I've got no
wish that way.

MATRYÓNA. Eh, honey! why should you marry? Go on as you are. It's all
the old man. You'd better go, sonnie, we can talk these matters over
without you.

NIKÍTA. It's a queer go! One moment I'm to be married, the next, not. I
can't make head or tail of it. [Exit].

ANÍSYA. What's it all about then? Do you really wish him to get married?

MATRYÓNA. Eh, why should he marry, my jewel? It's all nonsense, all my
old man's drivel. "Marry, marry." But he's reckoning without his host.
You know the saying, "From oats and hay, why should horses stray?" When
you've enough and to spare, why look elsewhere? And so in this case.
[Winks] Don't I see which way the wind blows?

ANÍSYA. Where's the good of my pretending to you, Mother Matryóna? You
know all about it. I have sinned. I love your son.

MATRYÓNA. Dear me, here's news! D'you think Mother Matryóna didn't know?
Eh, lassie,--Mother Matryóna's been ground, and ground again, ground
fine! This much I can tell you, my jewel: Mother Matryóna can see
through a brick wall three feet thick. I know it all, my jewel! I know
what young wives need sleeping draughts for, so I've brought some along.
[Unties a knot in her handkerchief and brings out paper-packets] As much
as is wanted, I see, and what's not wanted I neither see nor perceive!
There! Mother Matryóna has also been young. I had to know a thing or two
to live with my old fool. I know seventy-and-seven dodges. But I see
your old man's quite seedy, quite seedy! How's one to live with such as
him? Why, if you pricked him with a hay-fork it wouldn't fetch blood.
See if you don't bury him before the spring. Then you'll need some one
in the house. Well, what's wrong with my son? He'll do as well as
another. Then where's the advantage of my taking him away from a good
place? Am I my child's enemy?

ANÍSYA. Oh, if only he does not go away.

MATRYÓNA. He won't go away, birdie. It's all nonsense. You know my old
man. His wits are always wool-gathering; yet sometimes he takes a thing
into his pate, and it's as if it were wedged in, you can't knock it out
with a hammer.

ANÍSYA. And what started this business?

MATRYÓNA. Well, you see, my jewel, you yourself know what a fellow with
women the lad is,--and he's handsome too, though I say it as shouldn't.
Well, you know, he was living at the railway, and they had an orphan
wench there to cook for them. Well, that same wench took to running
after him.

ANÍSYA. Marína?

MATRYÓNA. Yes, the plague seize her! Whether anything happened or not,
anyhow something got to my old man's ears. Maybe he heard from the
neighbours, maybe she's been and blabbed ...

ANÍSYA. Well, she is a bold hussy!

MATRYÓNA. So my old man--the old blockhead--off he goes: "Marry, marry,"
he says, "he must marry her and cover the sin," he says. "We must take
the lad home," he says, "and he shall marry," he says. Well, I did my
best to make him change his mind, but, dear me, no. So, all right,
thinks I,--I'll try another dodge. One always has to entice them fools
in this way, just pretend to be of their mind, and when it comes to the
point one goes and turns it all one's own way. You know, a woman has
time to think seventy-and-seven thoughts while falling off the oven, so
how's such as he to see through it? "Well, yes," says I, "it would be a
good job,--only we must consider well beforehand. Why not go and see our
son, and talk it over with Peter Ignátitch and hear what he has to say?"
So here we are.

ANÍSYA. Oh dear, oh dear, how will it all end? Supposing his father just
orders him to marry her?

MATRYÓNA. Orders, indeed. Chuck his orders to the dogs! Don't you worry;
that affair will never come off. I'll go to your old man myself, and
sift and strain this matter clear--there will be none of it left. I have
come here only for the look of the thing. A very likely thing! Here's my
son living in happiness and expecting happiness, and I'll go and match
him with a slut! No fear, I'm not a fool!

ANÍSYA. And she--this Marína--came dangling after him here! Mother,
would you believe, when they said he was going to marry, it was as if a
knife had gone right through my heart. I thought he cared for her.

MATRYÓNA. Oh, my jewel! Why, you don't think him such a fool, that he
should go and care for a homeless baggage like that? Nikíta is a
sensible fellow, you see. He knows whom to love. So don't you go and
fret, my jewel. We'll not take him away, and we won't marry him. No,
we'll let him stay on, if you'll only oblige us with a little money.

ANÍSYA. All I know is, that I could not live if Nikíta went away.

MATRYÓNA. Naturally, when one's young it's no easy matter! You, a wench
in full bloom, to be living with the dregs of a man like that husband of
yours.

ANÍSYA. Mother Matryóna, would you believe it? I'm that sick of him,
that sick of this long-nosed cur of mine, I can hardly bear to look at
him.

MATRYÓNA. Yes, I see, it's one of them cases. Just look here, [looks
round and whispers] I've been to see that old man, you know--he's given
me simples of two kinds. This, you see, is a sleeping draught. "Just
give him one of these powders," he says, "and he'll sleep so sound you
might jump on him!" And this here, "This is that kind of simple," he
says, "that if you give one some of it to drink it has no smell
whatever, but its strength is very great. There are seven doses here, a
pinch at a time. Give him seven pinches," he says, "and she won't have
far to look for freedom," he says.

ANÍSYA. O-o-oh! What's that?

MATRYÓNA. "No sign whatever," he says. He's taken a rouble for it.
"Can't sell it for less," he says. Because it's no easy matter to get
'em, you know. I paid him, dearie, out of my own money. If she takes
them, thinks I, it's all right; if she don't, I can let old Michael's
daughter have them.

ANÍSYA. O-o-oh! But mayn't some evil come of them? I'm frightened!

MATRYÓNA. What evil, my jewel? If your old man was hale and hearty,
'twould be a different matter, but he's neither alive nor dead as it is.
He's not for this world. Such things often happen.

ANÍSYA. O-o-oh, my poor head! I'm afeared, Mother Matryóna, lest some
evil come of them. No. That won't do.

MATRYÓNA. Just as you like. I might even return them to him.

ANÍSYA. And are they to be used in the same way as the others? Mixed in
water?

MATRYÓNA. Better in tea, he says. "You can't notice anything," he says,
"no smell nor nothing." He's a cute old fellow too.

  [Illustration: THE POWER OF DARKNESS. ACT I.

  MATRYÓNA GIVES ANÍSYA THE POWDERS.]

ANÍSYA. [taking the powder] O-oh, my poor head! Could I have ever
thought of such a thing if my life were not a very hell?

MATRYÓNA. You'll not forget that rouble? I promised to take it to the
old man. He's had some trouble, too.

ANÍSYA. Of course? [Goes to her box and hides the powders].

MATRYÓNA. And now, my jewel, keep it as close as you can, so that no one
should find it out. Heaven defend that it should happen, but _if_ any
one notices it, tell 'em it's for the black-beetles. [Takes the rouble]
It's also used for beetles. [Stops short].

    Enter Akím, who crosses himself in front of the icón, and then
    Peter, who sits down.

PETER. Well then, how's it to be, Daddy Akím?

AKÍM. As it's best, Peter Ignátitch, as it's best ... I mean--as it's
best. 'Cos why? I'm afeared of what d'you call 'ems, some tomfoolery,
you know. I'd like to, what d'you call it ... to start, you know, start
the lad honest, I mean. But supposing you'd rather, what d'you call it,
we might, I mean, what's name? As it's best ...

PETER. All right. All right. Sit down and let's talk it over. [Akím sits
down] Well then, what's it all about? You want him to marry?

MATRYÓNA. As to marrying, he might bide a while, Peter Ignátitch. You
know our poverty, Peter Ignátitch. What's he to marry on? We've hardly
enough to eat ourselves. How can he marry then?...

PETER. You must consider what will be best.

MATRYÓNA. Where's the hurry for him to get married? Marriage is not that
sort of thing, it's not like ripe raspberries that drop off if not
picked in time.

PETER. If he were to get married, 'twould be a good thing in a way.

AKÍM. We'd like to ... what d'you call it? 'Cos why, you see. I've what
d'you call it ... a job. I mean, I've found a paying job in town, you
know.

MATRYÓNA. And a fine job too--cleaning out cesspools. The other day when
he came home, I could do nothing but spew and spew. Faugh!

AKÍM. It's true, at first it does seem what d'you call it ... knocks one
clean over, you know,--the smell, I mean. But one gets used to it, and
then it's nothing, no worse than malt grain, and then it's, what d'you
call it, ... pays, pays, I mean. And as to the smell being, what d'you
call it, it's not for the likes of us to complain. And one changes one's
clothes. So we'd like to take what's his name ... Nikíta I mean, home.
Let him manage things at home while I, what d'you call it,--earn
something in town.

PETER. You want to keep your son at home? Yes, that would be well: but
how about the money he has had in advance?

AKÍM. That's it, that's it! It's just as you say, Ignátitch, it's just
what d'you call it. 'Cos why? If you go into service, it's as good as if
you had sold yourself, they say. That will be all right. I mean he may
stay and serve his time, only he must, what d'you call it, get married.
I mean--so: you let him off for a little while, that he may, what d'you
call it?

PETER. Yes, we could manage that.

MATRYÓNA. Ah, but it's not yet settled between ourselves, Peter
Ignátitch. I'll speak to you as I would before God, and you may judge
between my old man and me. He goes on harping on that marriage. But just
ask--who it is he wants him to marry. If it were a girl of the right
sort now-- I am not my child's enemy, but the wench is not honest.

AKÍM. No, that's wrong! Wrong, I say. 'Cos why? She, that same
girl--it's my son as has offended, offended the girl I mean.

PETER. How offended?

AKÍM. That's how. She's what d'you call it, with him, with my son,
Nikíta. With Nikíta, what d'you call it, I mean.

MATRYÓNA. You wait a bit, my tongue runs smoother--let me tell it. You
know, this lad of ours lived at the railway before he came to you. There
was a girl there as kept dangling after him. A girl of no account, you
know, her name's Marína. She used to cook for the men. So now this same
girl accuses our son, Nikíta, that he, so to say, deceived her.

PETER. Well, there's nothing good in that.

MATRYÓNA. But she's no honest girl herself; she runs after the fellows
like a common slut.

AKÍM. There you are again, old woman, and it's not at all what d'you
call it, it's all not what d'you call it, I mean ...

MATRYÓNA. There now, that's all the sense one gets from my old
owl--"what d'you call it, what d'you call it," and he doesn't know
himself what he means. Peter Ignátitch, don't listen to me, but go
yourself and ask any one you like about the girl, everybody will say the
same. She's just a homeless good-for-nothing.

PETER. You know, Daddy Akím, if that's how things are, there's no reason
for him to marry her. A daughter-in-law's not like a shoe, you can't
kick her off.

AKÍM [excitedly] It's false, old woman, it's what d'you call it, false;
I mean, about the girl; false! 'Cos why? The lass is a good lass, a very
good lass, you know. I'm sorry, sorry for the lassie, I mean.

MATRYÓNA. It's an old saying: "For the wide world old Miriam grieves,
and at home without bread her children she leaves." He's sorry for the
girl, but not sorry for his own son! Sling her round your neck and carry
her about with you! That's enough of such empty cackle!

AKÍM. No, it's not empty.

MATRYÓNA. There, don't interrupt, let me have my say.

AKÍM [interrupts] No, not empty! I mean, you twist things your own way,
about the lass or about yourself. Twist them, I mean, to make it better
for yourself; but God, what d'you call it, turns them His way. That's
how it is.

MATRYÓNA. Eh! One only wears out one's tongue with you.

AKÍM. The lass is hard-working and spruce, and keeps everything round
herself ... what d'you call it. And in our poverty, you know, it's a
pair of hands, I mean; and the wedding needn't cost much. But the chief
thing's the offence, the offence to the lass, and she's a what d'you
call it, an orphan, you know; that's what she is, and there's the
offence.

MATRYÓNA. Eh! they'll all tell you a tale of that sort ...

ANÍSYA. Daddy Akím, you'd better listen to us women; we can tell you a
thing or two.

AKÍM. And God, how about God? Isn't she a human being, the lass? A what
d'you call it,--also a human being I mean, before God. And how do you
look at it?

MATRYÓNA. Eh!... started off again?...

PETER. Wait a bit, Daddy Akím. One can't believe all these girls say,
either. The lad's alive, and not far away; send for him, and find out
straight from him if it's true. He won't wish to lose his soul. Go and
call the fellow, [Anísya rises] and tell him his father wants him. [Exit
Anísya].

MATRYÓNA. That's right, dear friend; you've cleared the way clean, as
with water. Yes, let the lad speak for himself. Nowadays, you know,
they'll not let you force a son to marry; one must first of all ask the
lad. He'll never consent to marry her and disgrace himself, not for all
the world. To my thinking, it's best he should go on living with you and
serving you as his master. And we need not take him home for the summer
either; we can hire a help. If you would only give us ten roubles now,
we'll let him stay on.

PETER. All in good time. First let us settle one thing before we start
another.

AKÍM. You see, Peter Ignátitch, I speak. 'Cos why? you know how it
happens. We try to fix things up as seems best for ourselves, you know;
and as to God, we what d'you call it, we forget Him. We think it's best
so, turn it our own way, and lo! we've got into a fix, you know. We
think it will be best, I mean; and lo! it turns out much worse--without
God, I mean.

PETER. Of course one must not forget God.

AKÍM. It turns out worse! But when it's the right way--God's way--it
what d'you call it, it gives one joy; seems pleasant, I mean. So I
reckon, you see, get him, the lad, I mean, get him to marry her, to keep
him from sin, I mean, and let him what d'you call it at home, as it's
lawful, I mean, while I go and get the job in town. The work is of the
right sort--it's payin', I mean. And in God's sight it's what d'you call
it--it's best, I mean. Ain't she an orphan? Here, for example, a year
ago some fellows went and took timber from the steward,--thought they'd
do the steward, you know. Yes, they did the steward, but they couldn't
what d'you call it--do God, I mean. Well, and so ...

    Enter Nikíta and Nan.

NIKÍTA. You called me? [Sits down and takes out his tobacco-pouch].

PETER [in a low, reproachful voice] What are you thinking about--have
you no manners? Your father is going to speak to you, and you sit down
and fool about with tobacco. Come, get up!

    Nikíta rises, leans carelessly with his elbow on the table, and
    smiles.

AKÍM. It seems there's a complaint, you know, about you, Nikíta--a
complaint, I mean, a complaint.

NIKÍTA. Who's been complaining?

AKÍM. Complaining? It's a maid, an orphan maid, complaining, I mean.
It's her, you know--a complaint against you, from Marína, I mean.

NIKÍTA [laughs] Well, that's a good one. What's the complaint? And who's
told you--she herself?

AKÍM. It's I am asking you, and you must now, what d'you call it, give
me an answer. Have you got mixed up with the lass, I mean--mixed up, you
know?

NIKÍTA. I don't know what you mean. What's up?

AKÍM. Foolin', I mean, what d'you call it? foolin'. Have you been
foolin' with her, I mean?

NIKÍTA. Never mind what's been! Of course one does have some fun with a
cook now and then to while away the time. One plays the concertina and
gets her to dance. What of that?

PETER. Don't shuffle, Nikíta, but answer your father straight out.

AKÍM [solemnly] You can hide it from men but not from God, Nikíta. You,
what d'you call it--think, I mean, and don't tell lies. She's an orphan;
so, you see, any one is free to insult her. An orphan, you see. So you
should say what's rightest.

NIKÍTA. But what if I have nothing to say? I have told you
everything--because there isn't anything to tell, that's flat! [Getting
excited] She can go and say anything about me, same as if she was
speaking of one as is dead. Why don't she say anything about Fédka
Mikíshin? Besides, how's this, that one mayn't even have a bit of fun
nowadays? And as for her, well, she's free to say anything she likes.

AKÍM. Ah, Nikíta, mind! A lie will out. Did anything happen?

NIKÍTA [aside] How he sticks to it; it's too bad. [To Akím] I tell you,
I know nothing more. There's been nothing between us. [Angrily] By God!
and may I never leave this spot [crosses himself] if I know anything
about it. [Silence. Then still more excitedly] Why! have you been
thinking of getting me to marry her? What do you mean by it?--it's a
confounded shame. Besides, nowadays you've got no such rights as to
force a fellow to marry. That's plain enough. Besides, haven't I sworn I
know nothing about it?

MATRYÓNA [to her husband] There now, that's just like your silly pate,
to believe all they tell you. He's gone and put the lad to shame all for
nothing. The best thing is to let him live as he is living, with his
master. His master will help us in our present need, and give us ten
roubles, and when the time comes ...

PETER. Well, Daddy Akím, how's it to be?

AKÍM [looks at his son, clicking his tongue disapprovingly] Mind,
Nikíta, the tears of one that's been wronged never, what d'you call
it--never fall beside the mark but always on, what's name--the head of
the man as did the wrong. So mind, don't what d'you call it.

NIKÍTA [sits down] What's there to mind? mind yourself.

NAN [aside] I must run and tell mother. [Exit].

MATRYÓNA [to Peter] That's always the way with this old mumbler of mine,
Peter Ignátitch. Once he's got anything wedged in his pate there's no
knocking it out. We've gone and troubled you all for nothing. The lad
can go on living as he has been. Keep him; he's your servant.

PETER. Well, Daddy Akím, what do you say?

AKÍM. Why, the lad's his own master, if only he what d'you call it.... I
only wish that, what d'you call it, I mean.

MATRYÓNA. You don't know yourself what you're jawing about. The lad
himself has no wish to leave. Besides, what do we want with him at home?
We can manage without him.

PETER. Only one thing, Daddy Akím--if you are thinking of taking him
back in summer, I don't want him here for the winter. If he is to stay
at all, it must be for the whole year.

MATRYÓNA. And it's for a year he'll bind himself. If we want help when
the press of work comes, we can hire help, and the lad shall remain with
you. Only give us ten roubles now....

PETER. Well then, is it to be for another year?

AKÍM. [sighing] Yes, it seems, it what d'you call it ... if it's so, I
mean, it seems that it must be what d'you call it.

MATRYÓNA. For a year, counting from St. Dimítry's day. We know you'll
pay him fair wages. But give us ten roubles now. Help us out of our
difficulties. [Gets up and bows to Peter].

    Enter Nan and Anísya. The latter sits down at one side.

PETER. Well, if that's settled we might step across to the inn and have
a drink. Come, Daddy Akím, what do you say to a glass of vódka?

AKÍM. No, I never drink that sort of thing.

PETER. Well, you'll have some tea?

AKÍM. Ah, tea! yes, I do sin that way. Yes, tea's the thing.

PETER. And the women will also have some tea. Come. And you, Nikíta, go
and drive the sheep in and clear away the straw.

