Produced by Peter O'Connell


THE MISSING LINK

BY

EDWARD DYSON
1922


CHAPTER I.

DR. CRIPS'S HEALING MIXTURE.

HIS Christian name was Nicholas but his familiars called him Nickie the
Kid. The title did not imply that Nicholas possessed the artless gaiety,
the nimbleness, or any of the simple virtues of the young of the common
goat. Kid was short for "kidder," a term that as gone out recently in
favour of "smoodger," and which implies a quality of suave and
ingratiating cunning backed by ulterior motives.

The familiars of Mr. Nicholas Crips were a limited circle, and all
"beats," that is to say, gentlemen sitting on the rail dividing honest
toil from open crime. They were not workers, neither were they thieves,
excepting in very special circumstances, when the opportunity made
honesty almost an impertinence. The sobriquet coming from such a source
acquires peculiar significance. The god-fathers of Nickie the Kid were
all experts, and obtained bed and board mainly by exercising the art of
dissimulation. To stand out conspicuously as a specialist in such company
one needed to possess very bright and peculiar qualities.

Mr. Nicholas Crips was blonde, bony man perhaps five feet nine in height,
but looking taller because of the spareness of his limbs. This spareness
was not cultivated, as Nickie the Kid was partial to creature comforts,
but was of great assistance to him in a profession in which it was often
necessary to profess chronic sickness and touching physical decrepitude.
Mr Crips despised whiskers, but, as shaving was an extravagant
indulgence, his slightly cadaverous countenance was often littered with a
crisp, pale stubble, not unlike dry grass.

To-day Nickie wore a suit of black cloth. It had once been a very
imposing suit, and had adorned a great person, but having fallen on evil
days, was dusty and rusty, while the knees of Mr. Crips poked familiarly
through a long slit in each leg of the stained trousers. The frock coat
went badly with the damaged tan boots and the moth-eaten rag cap Nicholas
was wearing.

Mr. Crips was making back-door call, and telling housewives what the
doctors at the hospital had said about his peculiar ailment which, it
appears, was an interesting heart weakness.

"Above all, I must be careful never to over-exert myself, madam--those
are the doctor's orders," said Nickie, in his sad, calm way. "The
smallest excitement, the slightest strain, and my life goes out like
that." Nickie puffed an imaginary candle with dramatic significance.

This was the preliminary to a mild appeal for creature and medical
comforts, and it had two objects--to open the soul to compassion, and bar
all considerations of manual labour.

Our hero's manner with women was a gentle manly deference; his begging
showed no trace of servility, but he was always polite. He accepted
failure with good grace, and did not resent scorn, abuse, or even
violence from intended victims. He was rarely combative. Fighting was not
his special gift; he met misfortune with patient passivity Resistance he
found a mistake. But for all this a certain sense of superiority was,
never wanting in Nickie the Kid; the shabbiest clothes, a deplorable hat,
fragmentary boots, shirtlessness, the most distressing situations all
failed to wholly eliminate a touch of impudent dignity, a trace of rakish
self-satisfaction which as a rule escaped the attention of his clients;
but, here and there, a student of human nature found it delightfully
whimsical. Sometimes it appeared that this spice of egotism sprang from a
blackguardly sense of humour that found joy in the abounding weaknesses
and simplicity of the people he imposed upon, but, on the other hand, it
would be sufficient to show that Mr. Crips was inspired only with gross
selfishness or to comprehend that the stability of society depends upon
fair dealing and faithful labour.

Nevertheless there were occasions when Nickie the Kid deliberately
undertook to earn his daily bread. For a week he served as waiter in a
six penny restaurant. He had been a "super" in drama and a practical
crocodile in pantomime and was long in the employ of a fashionable
undertaker as second in command on the hearse. In this latter billet he
had to keep his hair dyed a presentable black, but otherwise the duties
were light, and Nickie might still have been useful mute, only that he
had the misfortune to get drunk at the funeral of an eminent politician
and behaved himself in a way obnoxious to the other mourners.

Some credit must be given to Crips for the above in view of the fact that
he had long, since discovered how unnecessary work was to a man free of
prejudices and unhampered with conscience. Every man should be master of
his own conscience, and the exactions of conscience should be subordinate
to the needs of the body. That was a large part of Nickie's philosophy,
and he had acted up to it with marked success, but this morning
housewives were incredulous and tough, and our hero was faring badly.

He entered the yard of Ebonwell, the chemist, and was about to knock,
when his eye fell upon a well-worn Gladstone bag full of small bottles.
In the course of long experience as a beat, Nickie had learned the value
of prompt action. He gently snapped up the bag, and jauntily to the gate.
Here he collided with a female entering in a hurry.

"Was yeh wantin' anythin', mister?" said the woman suspiciously.

"Good morning, madam," said Nickie, with unction. "Can I tune your piano
this morning?" His manner was most courteous, he smiled kindly, but he
did not invite attention to the bag.

"No yeh can't," snapped the woman, "an' a good reason why--coz we ain't
got a pianner to toon."

"A pity," said Nickie, suavely, "a pity, madam. No home should be without
the refining influence of good music."

The woman passed in as Nickie passed out, and the latter looked back over
the gate, and said, "Good morning, lady," with profound respect.

Nickie must have forgotten all about his weak heart; the dash he made out
of that right-of-way, across the street, down a second right-of-way, and
into a public garden, would not have discredited a trained pedestrian. An
hour later Mr. Crips was seated in a secluded spot on the river bank,
taking stock. He possessed one very second-hand black bag and four dozen
four-ounce bottles. The poem after its solemn and impressive prelude
becomes the record of an hour's debate of the writer with himself--a
debate which has a definite aim and is brought to a definite issue. In
conducting that debate on immortality, Browning is neither Christian nor
anti-Christian.

The Christian creed involves a question of history; he cannot here admit
historical considerations; he will see the matter out as he is an
individual soul, on the grounds suggested by his individual consciousness
and his personal knowledge. It may be that any result he arrives at is
a result for himself alone.

But why conduct an argument in verse? Is not prose a fitter medium
for such a discussion? The answer is that the poem is more than
an argument; it is the record in verse of an experience, the story
of a pregnant and passionate hour, during which passion quickened the
intellect; and the head, while resisting all illusions of the heart, was
roused to that resistance by the heart itself. Such an hour is
full of events; it may be almost epic in its plenitude of action; but the
events are ideas.

The frame and setting of the discussion also are more than frame and
setting; they co-operate with the thoughts; they form part of the experience.
The poet is alone among the mountains, with dawn and sunset for associates,
Jura thrilled to gold at sunrise, Salève in its evening rose-bloom,
Mont-Blanc which strikes greatness small; or at night he is beneath
the luminous worlds which
One by one came lamping--chiefly that prepotency of Mars.

While he climbs towards the summit he is aware of "Earth's most exquisite
disclosures, heaven's own God in evidence"; he stands face to face with
Nature--"rather with Infinitude."

All through his mountain ascent the vigour of life is aroused within him;
and, as he returns--there is her grave.

The idea of a future life, for which this earthly life serves as
an education and a test, is so central with Browning, so largely
influences all his feelings and penetrates all his art, that it is
worth while to attend to the course of his argument and the nature
of his conclusion.

He puts the naked question to himself--What does death mean? Is it total
extinction? Is it a passage into life?--without any vagueness,
without any flattering metaphor; he is prepared to accept or
endure any answer if only it be the truth. Whether his discussion leads
to a trustworthy result or not, the sincerity and the energy of
his endeavour after truth serve to banish all supine and half-hearted
moods.

The debate, of which his poem is a report, falls into two parts: first,
a statement of facts; secondly, a series of conjectures--conjectures
and no more--rising from the basis of facts that are ascertained. To
put the question, "Shall I survive death?" is to assume that I exist and
that something other than myself exists which causes me now to
live and presently to die.

The nature of this power outside myself I do not know; we may for
convenience call it "God."

Beyond these two facts--myself and a power environing me--nothing is known
with certainty which has any bearing on the matter in dispute.

I am like a floating rush borne onward by a stream; whither borne the
rush cannot tell; but rush and stream are facts that cannot be
questioned.

Knowing that I exist--Browning goes on--I know what for me is pain and
what is pleasure. And, however it may be with others, for my own part
I can pronounce upon the relation of joy to sorrow in this my life on
earth:--
I must say--or choke in silence----"Howsoever came my fate, Sorrow
did and joy did nowise--life well weighed--preponderate."

If this failure be ordained by necessity, I shall bear it as best I can;
but, if this life be all, nothing shall force me to say that life
has proceeded from a cause supreme in goodness, wisdom, and power.

What I find here is goodness always intermixed with evil; wisdom which
means an advance from error to the confession of ignorance; power
that is insufficient to adapt a human being to his surroundings
even in the degree in which a worm is fitted to the leaf on which
it feeds.

Browning tacitly rejects the idea that the world is the work of some
blind, force; and undoubtedly our reason, which endeavours to reduce all
things in nature to rational conceptions, demands that we should
conceive the world as rational rather than as some wild work of
chance.

Upon one hypothesis, and upon one alone, can the life of man upon this
globe appear the result of intelligence:

I have lived then, done and suffered, loved and hated, learnt and
taught This--there is no reconciling wisdom with a world distraught,
Goodness with triumphant evil, power with failure in the aim, If
(to my own sense, remember!

though none other feel the same!) If you bar me from assuming earth to be
a pupil's place, And life, time,--with all their chances, changes,--just
probation--space, Mine for me.

Grant this hypothesis, and all changes from irrational to rational,
from evil to good, from pain to a strenuous joy:--
Only grant a second life, I acquiesce In this present life as
failure, count misfortune's worst assaults Triumph, not defeat,
assured that loss so much the more exalts Gain about to be.

Thus out of defeat springs victory; never are we so near to knowledge as
when we are checked at the bounds of ignorance; beauty is felt through
its opposite; good is known through evil; truth shows its potency when
it is confronted by falsehood;
While for love--Oh how but, losing love, does whoso loves succeed
By the death-pang to the birth-throe--learning what is love indeed?

Yet at best this idea of a future life remains a conjecture, an hypothesis,
a hope, which gives a key to the mysteries of our troubled earthly
state. Browning proceeds to argue that such a hope is all that we can
expect or ought to desire. The absolute assurance of a future life and of
rewards and punishments consequent on our deeds in the present world would
defeat the very end for which, according to the hypothesis, we are
placed here; it would be fatal to the purpose of our present life
considered as a state of probation.

What such a state of probation requires is precisely what we have--hope;
no less than this and no more. Does our heaven overcloud because we
lack certainty? No:

Hope the arrowy, just as constant, comes to pierce its gloom, compelled By
a power and by a purpose which, if no one else beheld, I behold
in life, so--hope!

Such is the conclusion with Browning of the whole matter. It is in entire
accordance with a letter which he wrote two years previously to a
lady who supposed herself to be dying, and who had thanked him for
help derived from his poems: "All the help I can offer, in my poor
degree, is the assurance that I see ever _more_ reason to hold by
the same hope--and that by no means in ignorance of what has been
advanced to the contrary....

God bless you, sustain you, and receive you." To Dr Moncure Conway, who
had lost a son, Browning wrote: "If I, who cannot, would restore your
son, He who can, will."

And Mr Rudolph Lehmann records his words in conversation: "I have doubted
and denied it [a future life], and I fear have even printed my doubts;
but now I am as deeply convinced that there is something after death.
If you ask me what, I no more know it than my dog knows who and what I am.
He knows that I am there and that is enough for him.

"[120]
Browning's confession in _La Saisias_ that the sorrow of his life outweighed
its joy is not inconsistent with his habitual cheerfulness of
manner. Such estimates as this are little to be trusted.

One great shock of pain may stand for ever aloof from all other experiences;
the pleasant sensations of many days pass from our memory. We cannot
tell.
But that Browning supposed himself able to tell is in itself worthy of
note. In _The Two Poets of Croisic_, which was written in London immediately
after _La Saisiaz_, and which, though of little intrinsic importance,
shows that Browning was capable of a certain grace in verse that
is light, he pleads that the power of victoriously dealing with
pain and transforming it into strength may be taken as the test of
a poet's greatness:
Yoke Hatred, Crime, Remorse, Despair: but ever 'mid the whirling
fear, Let, through the tumult, break the poet's face Radiant, assured
his wild slaves win the race.

This is good counsel for art; but not wholly wise counsel for life.

Sorrow, indeed, is not wronged by a cheerfulness cultivated and
strenuously maintained; but gladness does suffer a certain wrong.

Sunshine comes and goes; the attempt to substitute any unrelieved light for
sunshine is somewhat of a failure at the best.

Shadows and brightness pursuing each other according to the course of
nature make more for genuine happiness than does any stream of
moral electricity worked from a dynamo of the will.

It is pleasanter to encounter a breeze that sinks and swells, that lingers
and hastens, than to face a vigorous and sustained gale even of a tonic
quality. Browning's unfailing cheer and cordiality of manner were admirable;
they were in part spontaneous, in part an acceptance of duty, in part a
mode of self-protection; they were only less excellent than the
varying moods of a simple and beautiful nature.

When _La Saisiaz_ appeared Browning was sixty-six years old.

He lived for more than eleven years longer, during which period he
published six volumes of verse, showing new powers as a writer of brief
poetic narrative and as a teacher through parables; but he produced
no single work of prolonged and sustained effort--which perhaps was
well.

His physical vigour continued for long unabated. He still enjoyed the various
pleasures and excitements of the London season; but it is noted by Mrs Orr
that after the death of Miss Egerton-Smith he "almost mechanically renounced
all the musical entertainments to which she had so regularly accompanied
him." His daily habits were of the utmost regularity, varying
hardly at all from week to week. He was averse, says Mrs Orr, "to every
hought of change," and chose rather to adapt himself to external
conditions than to enter on the effort of altering them; "what he
had done once he was wont, for that very reason, to continue doing."

A few days after Browning's death a journalist obtained from a
photographer, Mr Grove, who had formerly been for seven years in Browning's
service, the particulars as to how an ordinary day during the London
season went by at Warwick Crescent. Browning rose without fail at
seven, enjoyed a plate of whatever fruit--strawberries, grapes,
oranges--were in season; read, generally some piece of foreign
literature, for an hour in his bedroom; then bathed; breakfasted--a
light meal of twenty minutes; sat by the fire and read his _Times_
and _Daily News_ till ten; from ten to one wrote in his study or
meditated with head resting on his hand.

To write a letter was the reverse of a pleasure to him, yet he was diligent
in replying to a multitude of correspondents.

His lunch, at one, was of the lightest kind, usually no more than
a pudding.

Visits, private views of picture exhibitions and the like followed until
half-past five.

At seven he dined, preferring Carlowitz or claret to other wines, and
drinking little of any. But on many days the dinner was not at home;
once during three successive weeks he dined out without the omission of
a day. He returned home seldom at a later hour than half-past twelve; and
at seven next morning the round began again.

During his elder years, says Mr Grove, he took little interest in politics.
He was not often a church-goer, but discussed religious matters
earnestly with his clerical friends.

He loved not only animals but flowers, and when once a Virginia
creeper entered the study window at Warwick Crescent, it was not
expelled but trained inside the room.

To his servants he was a considerate friend rather than a master.

So far Mr Grove as reported in the _Pall Mall Gazette_ (Dec 16,
1889).

Many persons have attempted to describe Browning as he appeared in
society; there is a consensus of opinion as to the energy and
cordiality of his way of social converse; but it is singular that,
though some records of his out-pourings as a talker exist, very
little is on record that possesses permanent value.

Perhaps the best word that can be quoted is that remembered by Sir
James Paget--Browning's recommendation of Bach's "Crucifixus--et
sepultus--et resurrexit" as a cure for want of belief.

He did not fling such pointed shafts as those of Johnson which still
hang and almost quiver where they struck.

His energy did not gather itself up into sentences but flowed--and
sometimes foamed--in a tide.

Cordial as he was, he could be also vehemently intolerant, and sometimes
perhaps where his acquaintance with the subject of his discourse was not
sufficient to warrant a decided opinion.[121] He appeared, says
his biographer, "more widely sympathetic in his works than in his
life"; with no moral selfishness he was, adds Mrs Orr, intellectually
self-centred; and unquestionably the statement is correct.

He could suffer fools, but not always gladly. Speaking of earlier days
in Italy, T.A. Trollope observes that, while he was never rough or
discourteous even to the most exasperating fool, "the men used to
be rather afraid of Browning." His cordiality was not insincere; but
it belonged to his outer, not his inner self. With the exception of
Milsand, he appears to have admitted no man to his heart, though he
gave a portion of his intellect to many.

His friends, in the more intimate sense of the word, were women,
towards whom his feeling was that of comradeship and fraternal
affection without over-much condescension or any specially chivalric
sentiment.

When early in their acquaintance Miss Barrett promised Browning
that he would find her "an honest man on the whole," she understood
her correspondent, who valued a good comrade of the other sex, and
had at the same time a vivid sense of the fact that such a comrade
was not so unfortunate as to be really a man.

Let witnesses be cited and each give his fragment of evidence. Mr W.J.
Stillman, an excellent observer, was specially impressed in his intercourse
with Browning, by the mental health and robustness of a nature sound
to the core; "an almost unlimited intellectual vitality, and an individuality
which nothing could infringe on, but which a singular sensitiveness
towards others prevented from ever wounding even the most morbid
sensibility; a strong man armed in the completest defensive armour, but
with no aggressiveness.

"[122] A writer in the first volume of _The New Review_, described
Browning as a talker in general society so faithfully that it is
impossible to improve on what he has said: "It may safely be alleged,"
he writes, "that no one meeting Mr Browning for the first time, and
unfurnished with a clue, would guess his vocation.

He might be a diplomatist, a statesman, a discoverer, or a man of science.
But, whatever were his calling, we should feel that it must be essentially
practical.... His conversation corresponds to his appearance. It abounds
in vigour, in fire, in vivacity. Yet all the time it is entirely
free from mystery, vagueness, or technical jargon. It is the crisp, emphatic
and powerful discourse of a man of the world, who is incomparably better
informed than the mass of his congeners. Mr Browning is the readiest,
the blithest, and the most forcible of talkers. Like the Monsignore in
_Lothair_ he can 'sparkle with anecdote and blaze with repartee,' and
when he deals in criticism the edge of his sword is mercilessly
whetted against pretension and vanity.

The inflection of his voice, the flash of his eye, the pose of
his head, the action of his hand, all lend their special emphasis to
the condemnation." The mental quality which most impressed Mr
W.M.

Rossetti in his communications with Browning was, he says, "celerity
"--"whatever he had to consider or speak about, he disposed of in
the most forthright style."

His method was of the greatest directness; "every touch told, every nail
was hit on the head." He was not a sustained, continuous speaker, nor
exactly a brilliant one; "but he said something pleasant and pointed
on whatever turned up; ... one felt his mind to be extraordinarily
rich, while his facility, accessibility, and _bonhomie_, softened
but did not by any means disguise the sense of his power

."[123] Browning's discourse with a single person who was a favoured
acquaintance was, Mr Gosse declares, "a very much finer phenomenon
than when a group surrounded him." Then "his talk assumed the volume and
the tumult of a cascade.

His voice rose to a shout, sank to a whisper, ran up and down the gamut of
conversational melody....

"No, iv course not, but what price his
nibs in the noble belltopper mentionin' it t' th' Johns, an' gettin' you
seven days fer disgustin' behaviour?"

Nickie smiled inscrutably, and continued his work. When the carriage
returned, he made an adroit movement, and courteously opened the door.

"'Low me, Jinny, my dear," he said, offering his grimy hand.

The lady stepped down, and passed him disdainfully. The gentleman brushed
him aside.

"'Ope yeh 'ad er pleasant ride in yer cart, Billy?" said Nicholas.

He followed them to the gate, and called through the bars.

"Very sorry, Jinny, but I carn't haccept yer pressin' invitation ter
dinner, havin' er previous engagement."

He returned to his work again, smiling sweetly. He seemed to enjoy Stub
McGuire's horror.

"'Ere, 'ere," said McGuire, "off this job you go if you don't know better
than to insult people that way. You'll be gettin' me inter mischiff."

"Not at all," said Nickie, "not at all. Surely a man may offer ordinary
civilities to his friends. Bless my soul, you wouldn't have me cut old
Billy in the streets, would you? If I didn't speak to Jinny she'd think I
was angry with her, and cry her eyes out. She has a tender heart, poor
girl. She is a sensitive soul, and craves for social distinction. She
looks to me to secure them a footing in exclusive circles, Mr. McGuire."

"I don't know what y're talkin' about," Stub grumbled, "but that's enough
of it, see?"

Nickie took no notice of his employer's admonitions, however, and when a
clergyman drove up in a buggy an hour later, our hero intercepted him at
the gate.

"Good afternoon, sir," he said. "Would you mind tellin' Willyum inside
there how Nickie sends him his compliments, and 'opes Jinny's quite
well."

"My good fellow, you must not be insolent," ejaculated the minister.

"They won't take it as hinsolence," Nicholas explained. "They've er very
touchin' regard fer me. Tell them. I arsked after 'em, won't yer?"

Even Stub McGuire noticed that Nickie, whose speech was usually
excellent, adopted the vulgar tongue in addressing the man he called
Billy, or any of his friends or relations.

Next day, Nickie inveigled three children, who were playing on the lawn,
and entertained them at the gate with frivolous conversation for nearly
ten minutes, when the state of affairs was discovered by their dignified
mamma, who sent a maid flying to the rescue. Nickie took off his hat to
the maid.

"Tell Willyum," he said, "that bein' 'andy, I'll drop in ter lunch t'
day, but Jinny's not on no account t' put up a big spread fer me. I'll
jist take what's goin'."

He finished these remarks at the top of his voice, the girl being
half-way back to the house.

When the important man in immaculate black came out a little later,
Nickie saluted him gravely, as between gentlemen, but without deference.

"'Ow's it, Billy?" he said. "You might drop in an' see me this evenin'.
I'm livin' under th' blackberry hedge back o' your stables."

The stout man passed in silence, and with a great show of dignity. Nickie
had a busy afternoon. Evidently it was the dignified lady's "day." Quite
a crowd of people drove up to the gates during the afternoon, and Nickie
entrusted each with an affectionate and familiar message to Jinny. All
were horrified at the insolence of the disgusting man, and one young
fellow kicked Mr. Crips, but our' hero did not seem to mind. He merely
warned his assailant that he would issue a County Court writ for any
damages done to his trousers.

On the following morning at about 11 o'clock Nickie entered the grounds,
his rags fluttering in the breeze, marched to the door and rang the bell.
To the Napoleonic man-servant who opened to him, he gravely presented a
tomato can half-full of water, and said:

"Will yer please arsk Bill or Jinny if they'll be so good as to bile my
billy at the drorin'-room fire. Tell 'em it's Nicholas Crips what makes
the request. No, thanks, I won't come in, I'm afraid my motor car might
bolt."

The Napoleonic man-servant threw Nickie off the verandah, and threw his
billy after him, but this did not deter Nicholas from an attempt to enter
into familiar conversation bearing on family matters, when he found the
dignified lady in a summer house.

The lady glared at him in stony horror. "How dare you?" she ejaculated.
"How dare you?"

"Why, what's wrong, Jinny, old girl." asked Crips innocently, assuming a
lounging attitude in the doorway. "You find the togs I'm wearin' a trifle
too negligee, so to speak. They're quite the thing in our set."

"Let me pass!" ejaculated the lady with crushing hauteur.

Nickie was not impressed. He smiled, and continued dreamily: "My word,
things have moved with you, Jinny. You're gone up like er rocket in er
reg'lar blaze iv glory, but I can still see yeh in the old shop days. You
blazed then too, old girl. It wasn't with di'monds, 'twas fish scales,
but you blazed. You could alwiz put on dog. You sold flathead, Jinny, but
I give the devil his due--you did it like a duchess."

At this point the Napoleonic footman intervened again. He took Nickie by
his rags and the nape of his neck, and running him tip-toe out of the
garden, tumbled him headlong on the grass-grown roadside. Nickie rejoined
Stub McGuire quite unconcerned.

"That's a new society game, my friend," he said. "The flunkey scored ten
points."

A few hours later the proprietor of the cement mansion came to his gate,
and beckoned Nicholas Crips off the heap. Nickie the Kid responded with
alacrity, and Stub McGuire gazed in cow-like wonder while the two
discussed matters in the gateway.

Nickie was calling him "Bill," "Billy," and "Willyum," indiscriminately.
Stub nearly fainted when he saw the gentleman draw a bank-note from his
pocket, and hand it to Nicholas Crips. Nickie lifted his deplorable hat,
and said:

"So long, Bill. I'm sorry I can't come an' stay a month. Some other time,
perhaps."

The gentleman went in, and slammed the gate behind him. Nickie returned
to the heap, and picked up his coat and donned it.

"I'm handing in my resignation, Mr. McGuire," he said. "You are welcome
to my earnings, as I intend to live on my means--temporary at least." He
held up the note.

"A tenner!" gasped McGuire.

"A tenner!" replied Nicholas, "presented by the kind gentleman on
condition that I emigrate from this suburb and absent myself permanently.
The worst thing about rich relations, Stub, is that they want whole
suburbs to themselves; the best is that you can make them pay for the
privilege of exclusiveness."


CHAPTER III.

THE MASK BALL.

NICKIE the Kid only observed his agreements and kept honourable promises
so long as some material advantage flowed from his complaisance. Within a
month he was again haunting the vicinity of the white mansion. One night
he leaned against the fence and watched a procession of guests alighting
from their vehicles. Splendid motors dashed up, and loads of
gaily-dressed ladies and gentlemen quaintly caparisoned were discharged
at the great iron gates, and went trooping up the path to the flaring
white residence, blazing like a crystal palace in a fairy tale.

Nickie was not exactly envious, but looking through the iron railing at
the gay array of lanterns in the vast garden, and the glowing mansion,
and hearing the hubbub of cheerful voices and the laughter, he had a
dawning sense that respectability, especially well-to-do respectability,
had its compensations after all.

He walked to the gate for a better view, and discovered a strange object
lying on the path. It was a false nose, a large, red, boosy nose, with, a
length of elastic to hold it in its place. One of the guests had dropped
it. Nickie put it on in a waggish humour, and stood moralising as three
pretty Spanish dancers, in charge of a toreador, passed in.

Nickie loved gaiety, waster and rapscallion as he was--sunshine, colour,
flowers, beautiful women, life, music and laughter shook passions loose
within him. Another little kink in his brain might have made a poet of
him, just as the smallest turn of chance might have made a deadbeat of
almost any poet of parts.

Mr. Crips actually sighed over that vision of fair women, and longed to
be that happy toreador.

   "Ah, make the most of what we yet may spend,
   Before we, too, into the dust descend:
   Dust unto dust, and under dust to lie,
   Sans Wine, sans Song, sans Singer, and--sans End."

The quotation had just escaped our hero lips when a young fellow garbed
as Romeo, alighting from a hansom, dashed into him.

"By Jove, that was dooced awkward of me--yes, I beg your pardon, I'm
sure. Should have looked where I was going--what? said Romeo.

"Not at all," answered Nickie politely. "My fault in blocking the path.
My fault, entirely."

"By Jo-o-ve!" gasped Romeo; "that's a stunnin' make-up, old chap--what?
Nevah saw a bettah, by gad."

"Make-up?" said Nicholas. Mr. Crips had for gotten his false nose.

"Ya-as," said Romeo. "Your character, you know. A fellah 'd think you'd
just come from sleeping in a rubbish bin. Yes. Best Weary Willie I've
seen. But aren't you coming in, dear boy? You're a cart for Dolly's prize
for best-sustained character, eh?"

"Presently--presently." said Nicholas, smitten with a sudden idea.
"Waiting for a friend, you know."

Romeo went up the garden path, and Nickie the Kid retired under the
shadow of the hedge to allow his thoughts to revolve. Romeo's words had
suggested possibilities. Mr. Crips rarely wasted time making up his mind.
Three minutes later he was sauntering jauntily up the garden path on the
heels of a laughing Red Indian set.

It was a fancy dress ball. All the guests were masked or otherwise
disguised. Nickie had never encountered a softer thing. He determined to
make a night of it at the expense of the host of "White-cliff." To avoid
unpleasantness at the door, Nickie boldly climbed up the trellis of a
vine, and entered the noisy crowded ballroom through an open window,
rolling head over heels among the guests.

His appearance provoked a shout of laughter. This was the proper way for
a tramp to enter such a house. It was accepted as a quaint effort of
humour. Weary Willie was applauded, and his appearance, when he rose to
his feet, occasioned fresh merriment.

The "make-up" of Mr. Crips was certainly very effective, but with the
exception of the false nose it was nothing but his ordinary habit. He
wore a pair of old grey trousers, lashed up with one brace, and belted
with a strip of red material; between the fringed legs of this garment
and his broken canvas shoes the tops of socks, one white, the other
plaid, were plainly visible. The fact that they were only tops, and not
whole socks, was not to be missed, as they had worked up, and an inch of
bare ankle protruded. Nickie's coat was an old black Beaufort, from which
two buttons' hung on grey threads, which was split half-way up the back,
and from below the tails of which fluttered strips of torn lining. He
wore no vest, and had on a woman's faded pink print blouse as a shirt. He
had a linen collar that had long since lost all claims to whiteness and
all pretence of dignity, and his hat was a small round boxer, with
scarcely any rim. On one of the buttons of his Beaufort hung a strip of
ordinary sugar bag, on which he had written with a stub of pencil the
word "Program."

Mr. Nicholas Crips looked the part to the life. He had not shaved for a
week, and his lank hair was reaching out in all directions from under his
ridiculous hat, and from various strands dangled fragments of his last
couch under the boat shed. Nickie had nothing of the painted,
unconvincing theatrical accessories of the usual fancy dress tramp; he
looked real, and his success was instantaneous and complete.

I have endeavoured to show that Mr. Crips was not a diffident man; he did
not distress himself with scruples; fear of failure in an enterprise of
this kind never worried him. He walked across the grand ball-room,
swaggering in his rags, lifted his hat to a Watteau shepherdess who was
laughing at him from a settee in a recess, and said:

"Would yer darnce with er poor man, kind lydie?"

Again the crowd laughed. A tall Mary Queen of Scots peered at Nickie
through her lorgnette, and said.

"How very whimsical!" The little shepherdess was a merry spirit, and
bowed willingly. Nickie wrote "Milk Made" on his absurd programme, and
the quaintly assorted pair joined in the waltz. How, where and when
Nickie the Kid had learnt to dance Heaven knows, but he waltzed well, and
after that he danced with Mary Stuart in a set.

He was particularly attracted by Mary Stuart. She was a fine woman and
the rakish Nicholas had a discriminating eye where the sex was concerned.
Mary had a bold eye too, and a breezy manner. She took great joy in the
tramp.

A feature of Nickie's very humorous and original impersonation of the
Yarra-banker was his waggish begging. When he had danced, before leaving
his partner, he assumed a most lugubrious manner, and said:

"Dear lydie, would you kindly assist a pore decayed gent, what's got a
bedridden wife an' nine starvin' children, all twins? Just a copper,
lydie. The bailiffs is in, lydie, an' if I don't take 'orne nine-pence
for the rent they'll seize ther kerosene case, an' ther flour-sack, and
ther rest iv ther drorin-room furniture, kind lydie."

A gay vivandiere led Nickie to a portly Henry VIII. "Sire," she said,
"this poor man claims king's bounty for his three sets of triplets. I
humbly commend him to your majesty."

"Just a trifle to assist a poor man, kind gent," whined Nickie the Kid.
"Not a morsel iv turkey's passed me lips for seven days. Just a few
pence, sir, to buy champagne fer me widders and orphans. I don't care
about meself, kind sir."

King Henry promptly dropped half-a-crown into Nickie's hat. Two, or three
laughing guests standing about contributed silver. There was an
impression in the ballroom that the sum of the quaint tramp's collection
would go to a charity. None but Nickie himself knew the charitable object
to which the money was to be devoted.

Nickie danced with all sorts and conditions of women. Romeo slapped him
on the back.

"Splendid, deah boy!" he said. "We been thrown together, you know. Ran'
into you at the gate--what? By gad, you're doin it well. But I say, who
the devil are you?"

"I'm Willie' the Waster, kind young gentleman, and I'm residin' under No.
3 wharf, fifth plank from the corner. Would yer give er trifle towards me
time-payment furniture, please, sir."

Romeo contributed a shilling. "You're a sport," he said. "They're all on
to you. Dolly herself's delighted. Yes, you're right as rain for the
prize, but you might put me on--what?"

"I'm feather-legged Ned, with ther consumptive corf," said Nickie. "Would
you please give me a shillin' t' pay fer me medicine?"

"No, dash me if I do!" said Romeo, and he went off laughing.

Nickie took champagne with Sir Peter Teazie, Rip Van Winkle, Slender, and
Henry VIII., and under the influence of the good wine became more
audacious. He passed the hat with a characteristic complaint wherever a
few guests were assembled, and in view of the vast amusement he was
giving was allowed any license in reason. The offerings of the charitable
he deposited in the tail pocket of his coat, and presently the weight
dragged at him with a grateful pressure, and the silver clanked as he
walked. Fortune was not actually staring him in the face, but it was
hanging on behind.

By one o'clock in the morning Nickie was carrying round a champagne
bottle in his left hand, from which he refreshed himself, and he was no
longer able to walk a chalk line as wide as a tram with an certainty, and
had got into the way of clinging to the curtains and hangings; but this
was all accepted as part of an excellent piece of caricature, and earned
our hero some applause.

Just before supper a lady, dressed as Portia, came forward, and pinned a
neat design of gold laurel leaves and emeralds on the breast of Mr.
Nicholas Crips. It was the prize for the best sustained character, which
the host had offered his guests in a frivolous mood. Nickie bowed in
acknowledgment of applause, and then, with the bottle in one hand, and
his hat in the other, he appealed to Portia.

"Could you spare a copper, kind lydie, to assist a poor orphan what's
laid up with lumbago in the feet. I've bin bed-ridden fer ten years,
lydie, and I lost both me legs in th' battle of Waterloo. On'y a penny
for the battered 'ero good, kind lydie."

At supper Nickie declined to unmask. He would not remove his preposterous
false nose. He also excited doubts and misgivings by the depth of his
thirst and his almost miraculous capacity for food. After supper he was
simply impossible.

Nicholas Crips in his sober moments was quiet and unpretentious in his
rascalities, his temperament was naturally mild; but under the influence
of strong drink he always developed tremendous belief in his own
magnificence, strutted about and fondly fancied himself a king. He was
wholly and completely drunk when he charged into the ballroom at two in
the morning, brandishing a full bottle, and singing uproariously. He
staggered into the middle of the dancers, whirling his magnum.

"Room" he cried. "Room, there, for King Solomon in all his glory" He
whirled his bottle again, and the dancers broke before him. A Sir Toby
Belch got the thick end of the bottle in his natural fatness, and
collapsed with a groan. "Remove the body!" ordered Nickie, magnificently.
"D'ye hear me, there, minions? Remove these offensive remain from the
royal presence."

The guests had retreated against the walls, and Nickie held the floor.
Nobody believed this to be an artistic effort to sustain the character.
Weary Willie was as drunk as a lord. He tittered a wild Indian whoop, and
sang the chorus of "at the Old Bull and Bush," beating time with a leg of
turkey. Then he turned to the band.

"Play 'God Shave King'." he said. "If yeh don' play 'Go' Shave King' I'll
have ver heads off 'fore mornin'."

King Henry interposed, he put a restraining hand on Nickie, and spoke
soothingly to him and Nickie the Kid promptly knocked the poor monarch on
the head. Then rude hands seized Nickie: he was rushed from the house; he
was rushed down the path, and hurled into the street.

When all the guests had left the white mansion at Banklands, and daylight
was streaming in, a weary man-servant interviewed the master of
"Whitecliff."

"Please, sir," he said; "the--eh--gentleman who was thrown out last
night."

"Well, what of him?" asked the host, disgustedly.

"He's sleeping in the garden, sir."

The host went out. He found Nickie the Kid sleeping in the Pansy bed, and
Nickie was pulled to his feet.

"Nicholas!" he gasped.

"That'sh me, Willie," answered Nicholas Crips.

"You blackguard, you intrude into my house and insult my guests, and you
promised when I gave you that last £10 never to interfere with me again."

"Now Willie, Little Willie," said Nickie, "when did I ever keep my
promises?"

"Leave my grounds or I'll give you over to the police!"

"Chertainly," said Nickie. "Chertainly, I'll leave the grounds. There's
always room for me outside."

He took the skirt off his coat, heavy with the contributions of the
guests, in his hand, and strolled joyously through the gate.

"Ta-ta," he said. "Good-bye, Billy, dear ole Billy, dear, old,
fat-headed, bumptious Billy!"

Feeling like a king, Nickie the Kid passed down the road, and the morning
sun glittered on the emblem on his breast. He was still sustaining the
character.


CHAPTER IV.

A TEMPORARY REFORMATION.

NICKIE the Kid presented himself at the front door of a decorous villa in
an intensely respectable suburb, with sad story. Mr. Crips did not
address the lady as an unblushing mendicant, he spoke as a man of some
refinement and keen sensibility, whose bitter complaint was literally
dragged from him by adverse circumstances.

The lady was touched--her eye moistened.

"That is really very sad," she said. "Come right in, my poor man. You
must tell your story to my James. James will know how to help you."

Nickie followed the lady without the smallest compunction. She knocked
quietly at the door of a room and admitted Nicholas to a small apartment
fitted up like a study. At a table near the window a grave young man was
seated with writing materials before him.

"Well, mater" he said, "whom have we here? Another of your proteges?"

"I want you to listen to this poor fellow, James," said the lady, "his
story will touch you as it has touched me. My poor man, this is my son,
the Rev. James Nippit."

Nickie bowed with a grace that did not belong to his tramp's garments and
his insanitary and unshaven state.

"Thank God. I have met you, sir," he said, in the voice of a strong man
whose sorrows have about broken his proud spirit, "if your heart is as
gentle as that of this sweet lady."

The lady withdrew, and the Rev. James Nippit, who had been eyeing Mr.
Crips keenly, motioned hit to a chair.

"Be seated," he said, "and tell me your story."

"I am the only son of the Rev. Arthur Crips, of Bolton, Lancashire,
England," said Nickie. "My father held a good living. He intended to make
a doctor of me. He brought me up always with that intention, lavished
much money on me, and from the time I was fourteen I understood I was to
live the life of a gentleman. Before my education was completed my father
died, and I found that he had been led into speculation and we were
ruined. Not only ruined, but disgraced. The shock killed my mother. I
came to Australia. Unwittingly, without a chance of saving myself, I sank
and drifted till I found myself a mere tramp. For years I have been a
tattered, unclean, despised outcast. Yesterday I heard you preach; I was
outside under a window too despicable a creature to enter among you trim
flock. Your sermon reminded me of what I was, showed me to myself, made
the future horribly real to me. I was inspired to fight, to try and work
myself out of the slough into which I have drifted, and I have come to
you for help. I am here." Nickie the Kid opened his arms with a dramatic
gesture--his face was very sad.

"Liar!" said the young clergyman looking Nickie straight in the eye.
"Liar!" he repeated.

Nickie looked back into the eye of the clergyman. His face betrayed no
amazement. For a moment it was grave, almost reproachful, and then it
relaxed into a broad grin. The device had failed--there was no further
occasion for subterfuge.

"Well," Mr. Crips admitted, "I don't pretend to be a George Washington. I
may have been betrayed into errors of detail."

"It is as well you admit it," said the Rev. Nippit. "Because I did not
preach yesterday."

"Very remiss of you," said Mr. Crips.

"And, furthermore, I remember you well. Two years ago I was on a charity
committee that inquired into your case. You were then the son of a
Queensland Judge, reduced to poverty by wild living, but anxious to
return to respectable courses."

Nickie grinned again, and took up his hat. "It is as you say." he said,
"a truly delicious morning for a stroll. I think I'll go and watch the
grass grow. Good-day, Mr. Nippit."

The young clergyman arose and interposed between Nickie and the door.
"You will stay where you are," he said. "Sit down."

Nickie sat down. He placed his hat very carefully on the carpet, folded
his arms, and crossed his legs. "You are very kind," he said. "May I ask
if a compulsory lunch goes with this unwarrantable detention?"

"That remains to be seen," replied James. "I am going to offer you your
choice of two courses. You will either submit yourself to my deliberate
intention of making a good, clean, respectable, industrious member of
society of you, or you will walk out of this place into gaol."

Nickie's mind was made up instantly, but he did not capitulate in too
great a hurry; he talked of conditions, and asked for details of his
expected regeneration. The Rev. Nippit explained his belief that all men
had in them the elements of decency, order and religion. Those elements
only needed proper opportunities for development. He purposed giving
Nickie the opportunities. He needed a handy man about the house; Nickie
was to have the job. He would be expected to bathe every day, to shave
every day, and observe the decencies of the well-ordered home.

"And you are prepared to believe you can reform me?" said Nickie the Kid.

"I am not only prepared to believe it--I am determined to believe it,"
said the young clergyman, thumping the table.

Nickie smiled again. "I submit myself to the experiment" he said, "but
promise nothing. I don't think you will succeed. Your intentions are
good, but mine are not, and it takes two to make a bargain."

Nickie entered his new duties at once. After lunch he took a shovel into
the garden and toyed with the earth a while, and then he went to sleep
under a tree. The Rev. Nippit awakened him and talked with him in a firm
but kindly spirit on the virtues of honest dealings with one's employer,
and the necessity of industry to keep the world wagging, Nickie'
graciously admitted that it was all very true. But when set to clean out
the fowl-house he sat on a stone and held converse with an educated
cockatoo next door.

That evening, clean-shaven, freshly-bathed, dressed in a cast-off suit of
James Nippit's, whole if slightly rusty, and robbed of its clerical
significance, Nickie the Kid attended a religions function with his
reverend employer. Nickie was orderly, wakeful and fairly attentive. When
the plate came round he put threepence in, but he took a shilling out. It
was a useful trick, taught him by an expert in the art of rigging the
thimble and the pea. Nickie, when he had fairly good clothes, often
attended church merely to practise it. To-night the exploit was more an
act of unseemly and impious levity than a crime.

The Rev. Nippit had a theory which he believed would succeed with nine
malefactors out of ten if exerted under fair conditions it was based on
kindness, forebearance and the inculcation of excellent precepts.

It is distressing to have to report that Nickie took few pains to
encourage his preceptor. He was lazy, he sometimes forgot to shave, he
often forgot to bath, he was not always temperate; but the Rev. James
bore it all with unconquerable patience. If Nickie was lazy, he talked
with him like a brother of the twin virtues, industry and thrift; if he
were unwashed, he explained to him that cleanliness was next to
godliness: if he seemed to, have gazed too, long upon the wine when it
was red, or the beer when it foamed in the bowl, the clergyman pointed
out the advantage of strict sobriety, and earnestly besought Nicholas
Crips to strive for higher things and the true light.

The Rev. James Nippit was not discouraged. He saw Nickie often clean,
usually decently attired, generally fairly decent in his behaviour, and
always respectful in his manner, and believed the seed of righteous was
sprouting; but Nickie was living comfortably, he was being well fed and
well bedded, and was careful not to over-exert himself in the pursuit of
his duties; consequently, it was easy for him to maintain a certain show
of decorum.

After Nickie the Kid had been under the tutelage of the Rev. James for
about three weeks, the latter was puzzled to find that Mr. Crips was far
from penniless. Now Nickie was paid nothing his services, but every week
a small sum, representing his wages, was paid into the Savings Bank, and
the deposit was to be transferred to him when he gave proof of complete
and perfect regeneration. When asked to account for a bottle of whisky
found in his room, and for a burst of inebriety that represented a good
deal in spot cash, Nickie quibbled. The quibble was obvious even to an
innocent soul like James. James was hurt, but he persisted.

Nickie was content to have the experiment continue, but he held out no
great hopes. "You know," he said, "this is your scheme, not mine. You, as
it were, forced me to submit. You said you'd reform me in spite of
myself. Well, I am patient, and you are earnest, but we don't seem to
make much progress."

For seven weeks the Rev. James Nippit continued experimenting and never
once lost faith.

James Nippit's pet work was in connection with his reform movement, the
Young Men's Mission, a design for upraising the youths of the larrikin
and criminal classes. The Young Men's Mission had attracted some
attention, people were found willing to contribute to the good work, and
this fact gave rise to some imposition. Uncertified persons of bad
character were found to be collecting for the fund and appropriating the
money to their own use. This caused James much distress of mind.

One Sunday afternoon when driving from his Sunday School the Rev. Nippit
was hailed by a trusted friend, who said:

"For the last ten minutes I have been listening to a man preaching on the
sands down there. He represents himself as one of the leaders of the
Young Men's Mission Movement, and I am confident he is an impostor. If he
is, it is your duty to expose him."

The Rev. James took up the task eagerly. Leaving the buggy in charge of a
small boy, the two gentle men joined the crowd, and James soon recognised
that the speaker was delivering something very like a sermon of his own,
but seasoning it with a sort of quaint, insolent humour, that suited the
tastes of his hearers admirably. The crowd laughed and applauded.

"Brothers and sisters," said the speaker, "I have shown you that these
young men must be divorced from the long-sleever, and rescued from the
lures of the plump, peroxided barmaid, and the blandishments of Bung, the
reprobate who runs the pub. I have shown you they must be turned from the
joys of the 'pushes,' tobacco chewing, and stoushing in offensive
Chinamen with bricks, and now I appeal to you for the means of doing
things. Money is said to be the root of all evil, but it is also the
means of much good. If we want to go to heaven, we must pay the tram
fare. He who gives quickly gives twice, but it is better still to give
twice and to give quickly."

As he spoke he moved among the people, taking up a collection in his hat,
and the people responded liberally. Here was no ambiguity, no optical
illusion, but frank; ingenuous Nature. The peaks which guarded
the valley were clear and immutable.

They suffered no conflicting opinions; accident had done little to
disguise, their true character, but Nature held them as specimens
of the essential in mountain structure.

That the lesson of these peaks might not be forgotten, the student
finds them copied accurately in nearly every landscape painted by
Titian.

The magnificent one in "The Presentation in the Temple" was his favorite.

The sketches of this period show that the artist's attention was
divided between the study of these hill forms and of the luxuriant
vegetation of the sloping fields and pastures so characteristic of
Swiss scenery.

Cadore is most richly endowed in this respect. The hill-sides are
burdened with flowers, many of which are large and of tropical splendor.

The green of the broad fields is modified by the burden of blossoms. We
have seen against the background of one of these steepest fields what
seemed to be a column of delicate blue smoke wreathing up the
hill-side.
In reality it was a bed of wild forget-me-nots, which marked the
course of a minute rill.

Under such influences as these, a man born to be a painter, to whom
Art is all, whose hand never fails to execute, and whose mind has risen
above any erroneous combination of principles which may have checked his
progress toward the greatly excellent, must find himself with new strength,
a chastened imagination, and broader conceptions of his art.

The results of Mr. Tilton's labors since the summer in the Alps prove
that such was the effect upon him.

His pictures have of late occupied nearly every class of Landscape
Art.

The works now wrought in his Roman studio are indicative of great
changes in feeling, and are marked by surprising improvements in
execution.

Yet the individuality of the artist is impressed upon every canvas. The
changes to which we refer are these,--foregrounds suggested by or painted
from living forms.

In one view of Nemi we saw a superb black, gold, and crimson butterfly
resting on a flower. Yet these foregrounds require more strength, more
"body," more of that which artists achieve who achieve nothing else. We
notice far more individualism in tree forms. The ideal tree, that
is, the tree as it should be, and the conventional one coming
against the sky on one side of the composition, the one bequeathed
by Claude, have given place to Nature's homelier types.

The question as to the meaning of passages no longer arises. The lines
are drawn with a decision, with a sense of certainty, raising them above
all doubt. In the rendering of distant mountains, Mr. Dillon
evinces new knowledge of what such forms necessarily imply,--their tendency
to monotone and to flatness, yet preserving all their essential
surface markings, and their inevitable cutting outline against the
sky,--which sharpness Mr.

Tilton as yet has only hinted at, not represented.

Positive edges are the true.

--But we have no further space to devote to these particulars of landscape
form.
In these Mr. Tilton has many rivals and not a few superiors.

There is left us the pleasant privilege of alluding to an ability
which we believe he shares with none, and which enables him to give
his present pictures their great value.

This is the power to discriminate accurately between the several
classes of color,--the local, the reflected, and the prismatic. It will
be found on reference to most landscapes, especially those of the
English schools, that it is the understanding, already informed on
the subject, which accepts as reflected the continual attempts to
render this kind of color: they are regarded as indicative.

But the eye, which should have been satisfied first, recognizes nothing
more than local coloring. Near objects, under broad, open daylight,
yield us their local coloring,--as the surfaces of stones, the
trunks of trees, and the many tints of soil and vegetation,--yet
even here all is modified by reflections.

We remember a cliff at L'Ariccia, which, gray in morning light,
became, as evening approached, a marvellous beryl green, upon which
some large poppies cast wafts of purest scarlet.

Farther away, both local and reflected color lose their power. The rays no
longer convey information of surfaces as separate existences.

Nature gathers up into masses, and these masses tide back to the
foreground colors far removed in character from the near.

Vast combinations of rays and atmospheric influences have wrought
this change.

As we have said, noon gives us the earth clean and itself; but, as the
sun declines, flushes of color pass along the ground. Their character
we have already described.

The particles which fill the atmosphere just above the surface of
the earth become illuminated and visible in radiant masses.

Farther away there is floated over the mountains a miraculous bloom,
a bloom like that upon virgin fruit; and still more remote, upon
the far sea, there is a dream of amber mantling the sleeping blue.

To render these effects, to give us the illuminated air, the soft green
which the mossy sod casts upon the shaded cliff, the precious bloom
upon the hills, and the tints diffused along the sea,--to achieve
this so completely that there never shall be any doubt, to give us
upon the canvas what shall be all this to the beholder, is great,
and this Mr.

Tilton has performed.

THE EXPERIENCES OF THE A. C.

"Bridgeport! Change cars for the Naugatuck Railroad!" shouted the conductor
of the New York and Boston Express Train, on the evening of May 27th,
1858. Indeed, he does it every night, (Sundays excepted,) for that matter;
but as this story refers especially to Mr.

J. Edward Johnson, who was a passenger on that train, on the aforesaid
evening, I make special mention of the fact. Mr. Johnson, carpet-bag in
hand, jumped upon the platform, entered the office, purchased a
ticket for Waterbury, and was soon whirling in the Naugatuck train
towards his destination.

On reaching Waterbury, in the soft spring twilight, Mr. Johnson walked up
and down in front of the station, curiously scanning the faces of
the assembled crowd.

Presently he noticed a gentleman who was performing the same operation
upon the faces of the alighting passengers. Throwing himself directly in
the way of the latter, the two exchanged a steady gaze.

"Is your name Billings?"

"Is your name Johnson?" were simultaneous questions, followed by the
simultaneous exclamations,--"Ned!" "Enos!"
Then there was a crushing grasp of hands, repeated after a pause, in testimony
of ancient friendship, and Mr.

Billings, returning to practical life, asked,--
"Is that all your baggage? Come, I have a buggy here: Eunice has heard the
whistle, and she'll be impatient to welcome you."
The impatience of Eunice (Mrs. Billings, of course) was not of long
duration; for in five minutes thereafter she stood at the door of her
husband's chocolate-colored villa, receiving his friend.

While these three persons are comfortably seated at the tea-table,
enjoying their waffles, cold tongue, and canned peaches, and asking
and answering questions helter-skelter in the delightful confusion
of reunion after long separation, let us briefly inform the reader
who and what they are.

Mr. Enos Billings, then, was part owner of a manufactory of metal buttons,
forty years old, of middling height, ordinarily quiet and rather shy,
but with a large share of latent warmth and enthusiasm in his nature. His
hair was brown, slightly streaked with gray, his eyes a soft, dark
hazel, forehead square, eye-brows straight, nose of no very marked
character, and mouth moderately full, with a tendency to twitch a
little at the corners.

His voice was undertoned, but mellow and agreeable.

Mrs. Eunice Billings, of nearly equal age, was a good specimen of
the wide-awake New-England woman.

Her face had a piquant smartness of expression, which might have been
refined into a sharp edge, but for her natural hearty good-humor.

Her head was smoothly formed, her face a full oval, her hair and
eyes blond and blue in a strong light, but brown and steel-gray at
other times, and her complexion of that ripe fairness into which a
ruddier color will sometimes fade.

Her form, neither plump nor spare, had yet a firm, elastic compactness,
and her slightest movement conveyed a certain impression of decision
and self-reliance.

As for J.

Edward Johnson, it is enough to say that he was a tall, thin gentleman
of forty-five, with an aquiline nose, narrow face, and military whiskers,
which swooped upwards and met under his nose in a glossy black
moustache.

His complexion was dark, from the bronzing of fifteen summers in New
Orleans.

He was a member of a wholesale hardware firm in that city, and had
now revisited his native North for the first time since his departure.

A year before, some letters relating to invoices of metal buttons,
signed "Foster, Kirkup, & Co., per Enos Billings," had accidentally
revealed to him the whereabouts of the old friend of his youth,
with whom we now find him domiciled.

The first thing he did, after attending to some necessary business
matters in New York, was to take the train for Waterbury.

"Enos," said he, as he stretched out his hand for the third cup of tea,
(which he had taken only for the purpose of prolonging the pleasant
table-chat,) "I wonder which of us is most changed."

"You, of course," said Mr. Billings, "with your brown face and big
moustache. Your own brother wouldn't have known you, if he had seen you
last, as I did, with smooth cheeks and hair of unmerciful length. Why,
not even your voice is the same!"

"That is easily accounted for," replied Mr.

Johnson. "But in your case, Enos, I am puzzled to find where the difference
lies.

Your features seem to be but little changed, now that I can examine
them at leisure; yet it is not the same face.

But, really, I never looked at you for so long a time, in those days.

I beg pardon: you used to be so--so remarkably shy."
Mr. Billings blushed slightly, and seemed at a loss what to answer.
His wife, however, burst into a merry laugh, exclaiming,--
"Oh, that was before the days of the A.C.!"
He, catching the infection, laughed also: in fact, Mr. Johnson laughed,
but without knowing why.

"The 'A.C.'!"

said Mr. Billings. "Bless me, Eunice! how long it is since we have talked
of that summer! I had almost forgotten that there ever was an A.C."
"Enos, _could_ you ever forget Abel Mallory and the beer?--or that scene
between Hollins and Shelldrake?--or" (here _she_ blushed the least
bit) "your own fit of candor?"

And she laughed again, more heartily than ever.

"What a precious lot of fools, to be sure!" exclaimed her husband.

Mr. Johnson, meanwhile, though enjoying the cheerful humor of his hosts,
was not a little puzzled with regard to its cause.

"What is the A.C.?" he ventured to ask.

Mr. and Mrs. Billings looked at each other, and smiled, without
replying.

"Really, Ned," said the former, finally, "the answer to your question
involves the whole story."

"Then why not tell him the whole story, Enos?" remarked his wife.

"You know I've never told it yet, and it's rather a hard thing to
do, seeing that I'm one of the heroes of the farce,--for it wasn't
even genteel comedy, Ned," said Mr.

Billings.

"However," he continued, "absurd as the story may seem, it's the only
key to the change in my life, and I must run the risk of being
laughed at."

"I'll help you through, Enos," said his wife, encouragingly; "and
besides, my _rôle_ in the farce was no better than yours.

Let us resuscitate, for to-night only, the constitution of the A.C."
"Upon my word, a capital idea!

But we shall have to initiate Ned."

Mr.

Johnson merrily agreeing, he was blindfolded and conducted into another
room.

A heavy arm-chair, rolling on casters, struck his legs in the rear,
and he sank into it with lamb-like resignation.

"Open your mouth!" was the command, given with mock solemnity.

He obeyed.

"Now shut it!"
And his lips closed upon a cigar, while at the same time the
handkerchief was whisked away from his eyes.

He found himself in Mr.

Billings's library.

"Your nose betrays your taste, Mr. Johnson," said the lady, "and I am not
hard-hearted enough to deprive you of the indulgence. Here are
matches."
"Well," said he, acting upon the hint, "if the remainder of the
ceremonies are equally agreeable, I should like to be a permanent
member of your order."

By this time Mr. and Mrs. Billings, having between them lighted the lamp,
stirred up the coal in the grate, closed the doors, and taken possession
of comfortable chairs, the latter proclaimed,--

"The Chapter (isn't that what you call it?) will now be held!"
"Was it in '43 when you left home, Ned?"

asked Mr. B.

"Yes."

"Well, the A.C. culminated in '45.

You remember something of the society of Norridgeport, the last
winter you were there?

Abel Mallory, for instance?"
"Let me think a moment," said Mr. Johnson, reflectively. "Really, it
seems like looking back a hundred years. Mallory,--wasn't that the
sentimental young man, with wispy hair, a tallowy skin, and big,
sweaty hands, who used to be spouting Carlyle on the 'reading
evenings' at Shelldrake's?

Yes, to be sure; and there was Hollins, with his clerical face and
infidel talk,--and Pauline Ringtop, who used to say, 'The Beautiful
is the Good.'

I can still hear her shrill voice singing, 'Would that _I_ were
beautiful, would that _I_ were fair!'"
There was a hearty chorus of laughter at poor Miss Ringtop's expense.
It harmed no one, however; for the tar-weed was already thick over
her Californian grave.

"Oh, I see," said Mr. Billings, "you still remember the absurdities of
those days. In fact, I think you partially saw through them then. But I
was younger, and far from being so clear-headed, and I looked upon
those evenings at Shelldrake's as being equal, at least, to the _symposia_
of Plato. Something in Mallory always repelled me.

I detested the sight of his thick nose, with the flaring nostrils,
and his coarse, half-formed lips, of the bluish color of raw
corned-beef.

But I looked upon these feelings as unreasonable prejudices, and strove to
conquer them, seeing the admiration which he received from others. He
was an oracle on the subject of 'Nature.' Having eaten nothing for two
years, except Graham bread, vegetables without salt, and fruits, fresh or
dried, he considered himself to have attained an antediluvian purity of
health,--or that he would attain it, so soon as two pimples on his left
temple should have healed. These pimples he looked upon as the last feeble
stand made by the pernicious juices left from the meat he had formerly
eaten and the coffee he had drunk.

His theory was, that through a body so purged and purified none but
true and natural impulses could find access to the soul.

Such, indeed, was the theory we all held.

A Return to Nature was the near Millennium, the dawn of which we already
beheld in the sky. To be sure, there was a difference in our individual
views as to how this should be achieved, but we were all agreed as to what
the result should be.

"I can laugh over those days now, Ned; but they were really happy while
they lasted. We were the salt of the earth; we were lifted above those
grovelling instincts which we saw manifested in the lives of others.
Each contributed his share of gas to inflate the painted balloon
to which we all clung, in the expectation that it would presently
soar with us to the stars.

But it only went up over the out-houses, dodged backwards and
forwards two or three times, and finally flopped down with us into
a swamp."

"And that balloon was the A.

C.?" suggested Mr.

Johnson.

"As President of this Chapter, I prohibit questions," said Eunice.

"And, Enos, don't send up your balloon until the proper time.

Don't anticipate the programme, or the performance will be spoiled."
"I had almost forgotten that Ned is so much in the dark," her
obedient husband answered.

"You can have but a slight notion," he continued, turning to his
friend, "of the extent to which this sentimental, or transcendental,
element in the little circle at Shelldrake's increased after you
left Norridgeport.

We read the 'Dial,' and Emerson; we believed in Alcott as the 'purple
Plato' of modern times; we took psychological works out of the
library, and would listen for hours to Hollins while he read Schelling
or Fichte, and then go home with a misty impression of having imbibed
infinite wisdom.

It was, perhaps, a natural, though very eccentric rebound from the hard,
practical, unimaginative New-England mind which surrounded us; yet I
look back upon it with a kind of wonder. I was then, as you know,
unformed mentally, and might have been so still, but for the
experiences of the A.

C."
Mr. Johnson shifted his position, a little impatiently.

Eunice looked at him with laughing eyes, and shook her finger with a
mock threat.

"Shelldrake," continued Mr. Billings, without noticing this by-play,
"was a man of more pretence than real cultivation, as I afterwards
discovered. He was in good circumstances, and always glad to receive us
at his house, as this made him, virtually, the chief of our tribe, and
the outlay for refreshments involved only the apples from his own
orchard and water from his well.

There was an entire absence of conventionality at our meetings, and this,
compared with the somewhat stiff society of the village, was really
an attraction.

There was a mystic bond of union in our ideas: we discussed life, love,
religion, and the future state, not only with the utmost candor, but
with a warmth of feeling which, in many of us, was genuine. Even I (and
you know how painfully shy and bashful I was) felt myself more at
home there than in my father's house; and if I didn't talk much, I
had a pleasant feeling of being in harmony with those who did.

"Well, 'twas in the early part of '45,--I think in April,--when we
were all gathered together, discussing, as usual, the possibility
of leading a life in accordance with Nature.

Abel Mallory was there, and Hollins, and Miss Ringtop, and Faith Levis,
with her knitting,--and also Eunice Hazleton, a lady whom you have never
seen, but you may take my wife as her representative"----
"Stick to the programme, Enos," interrupted Mrs.

Billings.

"Eunice Hazleton, then.

I wish I could recollect some of the speeches made on that occasion.

Abel had but one pimple on his temple, (there was a purple spot where the
other had been,) and was estimating that in two or three months more he
would be a true, unspoiled man. His complexion, nevertheless, was
more clammy and whey-like than ever.

"'Yes,' said he, 'I also am an Arcadian! This false dual existence which
I have been leading will soon be merged in the unity of Nature. Our
lives must conform to her sacred law. Why can't we strip off these hollow
Shams,' (he made great use of that word,) 'and be our true selves,
pure, perfect, and divine?'

"Miss Ringtop heaved a sigh, and repeated a stanza from her favorite poet:--

"'Ah, when wrecked are my desires On the everlasting Never, And
my heart with all its fires Out forever, In the cradle of Creation Finds
the soul resuscitation!'

"Shelldrake, however, turning to his wife, said,--
"'Elviry, how many up-stairs rooms is there in that house down on
the Sound?'
"'Four,--besides three small ones under the roof. Why, what made you think
of that, Jesse?' said she.

"'I've got an idea, while Abel's been talking,' he answered. 'We've taken
a house for the summer, down the other side of Bridgeport, right on
the water, where there's good fishing and a fine view of the Sound.
Now, there's room enough for all of us,--at least, all that can make
it suit to go. Abel, you and Enos, and Pauline and Eunice might fix
matters so that we could all take the place in partnership, and
pass the summer together, living a true and beautiful life in the
bosom of Nature.

There we shall be perfectly free and untrammelled by the chains
which still hang around us in Norridgeport. You know how often we
have wanted to be set on some island in the Pacific Ocean, where we
could build up a true society, right from the start. Now, here's a chance
to try the experiment for a few months, anyhow.'

"Eunice clapped her hands (yes, you did!) and cried out,--
"'Splendid! Arcadian! I'll give up my school for the summer.'
"Miss Ringtop gave her opinion in another quotation:--
"'The rainbow hues of the Ideal Condense to gems, and form the Real!'

I've got a throat like a hot-box."

Old friend of Mr. Nicholas Crips would have recognised those crisp tones
instantly. Nickie the Kid had found his vocation.


CHAPTER VII.

AN UNFORTUNATE MEETING.

NICHOLAS CRIPS entered into formal agreement with Professor Thunder, sole
organiser, director and owner of Thunder's Celebrated Museum of Marvels,
to impersonate Mahdi, the Missing Link, at a salary of thirty-seven and
sixpence a week and keep, Nickie undertaking to observe the Sabbath, to
behave becomingly and in no circumstances to disclose his identity to
persons outside the show.

The clause entailing strict observance of the Sabbath was a wise one from
the Professor's point of view, as a previous Missing Link had taken
advantage of Sunday being an off-day to get unreasonably drunk, in which
state he betrayed the confidence of his employer, and disclosed the most
sacred secrets of the profession.

Nickie was assured that the job would be a permanency if he proved
himself a zealous, efficient Missing Link, and as he understood that even
when on show Mahdi was expected to do little more than curl up on the
straw in his cage and growl, he gratefully accepted. The contract was
signed.

So far Nicholas had discovered the new skin he was compelled to don to be
the only serious disadvantage attached to his office. It was
tight-fitting, coated with monkey-like hair, and covered him entirely,
the face being disguised under an attached mask with a flat nose and
patches of hair. The skin laced down the spine, but the laces were
artfully hidden under the fur.

At least Nickie was leading man of the small company. Ammonia (whose cage
adjoined the more sumptuous one in which Nickie was exhibited, and whose
open jealousy of Mahdi was a source of no little inconvenience to Nickie
the Kid) was an item of considerable interest, but the Link was the
culminating point of the monkey's progress the climax, so to speak, and
he enjoyed great popularity and many nuts. Possibly the nuts were the
true source of Ammonia's dislike.

Nickie the Kid had been three days figuring as the star of Professor
Thunder's Museum of Marvels, and was growing accustomed to his suit, and
to the situation. The Professor himself was a born vagabond, and his
wife, Madame Marve, the somewhat plump prophetess, who read fortunes, and
was mistress of the educated pig, had the Gipsy instinct and took life
easily. Nickie had a good deal in common with both, and they promised to
be a happy family.

In his proudest moments Professor Thunder was not likely to overestimate
the intrinsic value of the Missing Link as he stood, for tucked away
under the singlet that lay between him and his hairy simian cuticle was a
store of treasure with the product of which Nicholas Crips dreamed of
living a life of ease and luxury when certain matters had blown over and
it was wise for him to resume his proper place in the animal creation.

Pisa with all its charm lacked movement and animation. It was decided
to visit Florence in April, and there enjoy for some days the society
of Mrs Jameson before she left Italy.

The coupé of the diligence was secured, and on April 20th Mrs Jameson's
"wild poets but wise people" arrived at Florence. An excellent apartment
was found in the Via delle Belle Donne near the Piazza Santa Maria
Novella, and for Browning's special delight a grand piano was hired.

When Mrs Browning had sufficiently recovered strength to view the city
and its surroundings her pleasure was great: "At Pisa we say, 'How
beautiful!'

here we say nothing; it is enough if we can breathe." They had hoped for
summer wanderings in Northern Italy; but Florence held them
throughout the year except for a few days during which they attempted
in vain to find a shelter from the heat among the pines of Vallombrosa.

Provided with a letter of recommendation to the abbot they set forth
from their rooms at early morning by vettura and from Pelago onwards,
while Browning rode, Mrs Browning and Wilson in basket sledges
were slowly drawn towards the monastery by white bullocks.

A new abbot, a little holy man with a red face, had been recently
installed, who announced that in his nostrils "a petticoat stank." Yet
in the charity of his heart he extended the three days ordinarily
permitted to visitors in the House of Strangers to five; during
which period beef and oil, malodorous bread and wine and passages
from the "Life of San Gualberto" were vouchsafed to heretics of
both sexes; the mountains and the pinewoods in their solemn dialect
spoke comfortable words.

"Rolling or sliding down the precipitous path" they returned to
Florence in a morning glory, very merry, says Mrs Browning, for
disappointed people.

Shelter from the glare of August being desirable, a suite of comparatively
cool rooms in the Palazzo Guidi were taken; they were furnished
in good taste, and opened upon a terrace--"a sort of balcony terrace
which ... swims over with moonlight in the evenings."

From Casa Guidi windows--and before long Mrs Browning was occupied
with the first part of her poem--something of the life of Italy at a
moment of peculiar interest could be observed. Europe in the years
1847 and 1848 was like a sea broken by wave after wave of Revolutionary
passion. Browning and his wife were ardently liberal in their political
feeling; but there were differences in the colours of their respective
creeds and sentiments; Mrs Browning gave away her imagination to
popular movements; she was also naturally a hero-worshipper; she
hoped more enthusiastically than he was wont to do; she was more
readily depressed; the word "liberty" for her had an aureole or a
nimbus which glorified all its humbler and more prosaic meanings.

Browning, although in this year 1847 he made a move towards an appointment
as secretary to a mission to the Vatican, at heart cared little
for men in groups or societies; he cared greatly for individuals,
for the growth of individual character.

He had faith in a forward movement of society; but the law of social
evolution, as he conceived it, is not in the hands of political leaders
or ministers of state.

He valued liberty chiefly because each man here on earth is in process
of being tested, in process of being formed, and liberty is the condition
of a man's true probation and development. Late in life he was asked
to give his answer to the question: "Why am I a Liberal?" and he gave
it succinctly in a sonnet which he did not reprint in any edition
of his Works, although it received otherwise a wide circulation.

It may be cited here as a fragment of biography:

"Why?" Because all I haply can and do, All that I am now, all I hope to
be,-- Whence comes it save from fortune setting free Body and soul the
purpose to pursue, God traced for both? If fetters, not a few, Of prejudice,
convention, fall from me, These shall I bid men--each in his degree
Also God-guided--bear, and gladly too?

But little do or can the best of us:
That little is achieved through Liberty.
Who then dares hold--emancipated thus-- His fellow shall continue
bound? Not I Who live, love, labour freely, nor discuss A brother's right
to freedom.

That is "Why."[40]
This is an excellent reason for the faith that was in Browning; he holds
that individual progress depends on individual freedom, and by
that word he understands not only political freedom but also
emancipation from intellectual narrowness and the bondage of injurious
convention.

But Browning in his verse, setting aside the early _Strafford_, nowhere
celebrates a popular political movement; he nowhere chaunts a paean, in
the manner of Byron or Shelley, in honour of the abstraction "Liberty."
Nor does he anywhere study political phenomena or events except
as they throw light upon an individual character.

Professor Thunder repeated his intrepid words; aside he hissed "Bellow,
damn you--bellow!"

Nickie bellowed; he jumped with desperate energy, he clawed up the straw,
but he remained in the shadow.

"A pound!" cried the woman. "A pound jist fer goin' in with that ape?
Done! I'm yer man."

The Professor was thunderstruck, so also was Mahdi the Missing Link.
Never since Thunder invested in his famous fake of the man-monkey had man
or woman been found courageous enough to beard the monster in his den for
a pound. Never had any been expected to. Professor Thunder stood
non-plussed.

Madame went to the back of the cage. "Howl!" she whispered. "Howl! Do you
want to ruin us?"

Mahdi howled, he growled ferociously, he made an attempt to savage
Ammonia. His paroxysms were fearful to look upon, but the woman did not
seem to mind in the least.

"Open the door," she said.

"Madame, are you quite resolved to take this terrible risk?" said
Thunder, gravely, feeling keenly the approaching loss of a hard-earned
pound.

"Terrible pickles!" said the woman. "I've bin managin' men fer twenty
years, an' I ain't goin' t be stopped be no monkey."

"Very well, madam, the consequences be upon your own head." (Aside to
Nickie) "Roar, curse you, roar!"

The Missing Link crept to the back bars in an imploring attitude. "No,
no; for the love of heaven! don't let her in!" he whispered to Madame
Marve.

Professor Thunder burst into one of his frenzied street orations to drown
the voice of the Missing Link, and threw open the cage door. The crowd
huddled hack, horrified. One girl screamed, but the heroine from the
old-established lodging-house boldly entered the cage, swinging her gamp.

It was expected that the strange monster from the dim, damp jungles of
Darkest Africa would spring upon her, but he did nothing of the kind; he
rushed to the back of his cage, and cowered down, burying his face in the
straw.

The heroine butted Mahdi the Missing Link with her gamp. He gave no sign.
She kicked him. He bore it meekly, crouching lower. There was some
tittering in the crowd.

"Get up, you nasty brute!" said the woman, and prodded the horrid
monster.

Nickie didn't even growl. The woman kicked, she kicked with force. She
booted the terrible brute round the cage. She seemed to glory in her
triumph, and when Mahdi butted into a corner and refused to stir, she
took him by one leg, and towed him twice round the cage, and the
tittering the crowd swelled to yells of derisions and ribald laughter,
while Professor Thunder pranced about and cursed furiously. To save his
show from being ruined with ridicule, he rushed in, seized the woman, and
bundled her from the cage.

"I can't permit on to risk your life in this mad way," he blurted; "any
moment he might round on you, and then they'd pinch me for manslaughter.
Here is your pound, madam; go, and thank God you have been permitted to
live through this fearful experience." He paid with the grand air of a
hero of melodrama. His manner was so impressive it almost restored
confidence, but Mahdi, the monster, remained crouched at the back of his
cage, his face hidden in the straw, and nothing would induce him to come
out till closing time.

When the last patron was gone, and the doors were closed, Professor
Thunder approached Nickie.

"Well, my friend, you're a pretty cheap kind of baa-lamb for a Missin'
Link, I must say," he said haughtily. "Why in the devil did you allow the
woman to make such a holy show of you?"

"What was a man to do?" answered Nickie.

"A Missin' Link that knew his business would have scared her out of her
rags. By Heavings, man, you are no artist--you will never be an artist."

"You couldn't scare that woman with a den of lions and an old-time German
dragon, Professor."

"Bosh! Rot! My last Missin' Link would have had her in fits, sir."

"Allow me to know, please."

"What do you know about her in pertickler, fellow?"

"Well, it's ten years now since I ran away from her, Professor, but I
ought to know something about her. She's my first error of judgment.
She's my wife!"


CHAPTER VIII.

THE LINK GOES MISSING.

THE Missing Link was recognised by patrons of Thunder's Museum of Marvels
as no ordinary animal. The Professor's show being conducted in a small
shop, and owing nothing of its popularity to expensive advertisments in
the "Amusements" columns, received no recognition from the press,
consequently fame on a large scale did not come to Professor Thunder.
Nevertheless the Museum of Marvels enjoyed a reputation in humble
circles, and here Mahdi was talked of, and accepted without a question,
as an astonishing vindication of the Darwinian hypothesis about which the
Professor discoursed so fluently in his three minutes' lecture before the
cage. It had only taken Nicholas Crips two weeks to assert himself, and
already he had introduced many novelties into the recognised "business"
for Missing Links.

Occasionally a too-inquisitive visitor with a taste for natural history
became obtrusive and sought close investigation. It was part of Nickie's
duty to fill such visitors with a proper respect for Missing Links, but
ninety-nine out of every hundred accepted Mahdi in good faith. It is an
axiom in the show business that the people who can't be deceived are so
few that they are not worth considering.

It was a hot day, life in the cage was very oppressive. Nickie the Kid
was painfully thirsty. Probably no Missing Link since the day when man
began to emerge from the monkey had ever been so sorely afflicted with
the craving for alcoholic stimulants.

Louis; to-day we will show that we are soldiers for the battle. Your
watchword shall be, '_The Union and Fremont_!' Draw sabre! By the right
flank,--quick trot,--march!"
Bright swords flashed in the sunshine, a passionate shout burst
from every lip, and with one accord, the trot passing into a gallop,
the compact column swept on to its deadly purpose.

Most of them were boys. A few weeks before they had left their homes.
Those who were cool enough to note it say that ruddy cheeks grew pale, and
fiery eyes were dimmed with tears.

Who shall tell what thoughts,--what visions of peaceful cottages nestling
among the groves of Kentucky or shining upon the banks of the Ohio
and the Illinois,--what sad recollections of tearful farewells, of
tender, loving faces, filled their minds during those fearful moments
of suspense?

No word was spoken. With lips compressed, firmly clenching their
sword-hilts, with quick tramp of hoofs and clang of steel, honor leading
and glory awaiting them, the young soldiers flew forward, each
brave rider and each straining steed members of one huge creature,
enormous, terrible, irresistible.

"'T were worth ten years of peaceful life, One glance at their array."

They pass the fair-ground.

They are at the corner of the lane where the wood begins. It runs close
to the fence on their left for a hundred yards, and beyond it they see
white tents gleaming.

They are half-way past the forest, when, sharp and loud, a volley of
musketry bursts upon the head of the column; horses stagger, riders
reel and fall, but the troop presses forward undismayed. The farther corner
of the wood is reached, and Zagonyi beholds the terrible array.

Amazed, he involuntarily cheeks his horse. The Rebels are not surprised.
There to his left they stand crowning the height, foot and horse ready to
ingulf him, if he shall be rash enough to go on.

The road he is following declines rapidly. There is but one thing to
do,--run the gantlet, gain the cover of the hill, and charge up the
steep. These thoughts pass quicker than they can be told.

He waves his sabre over his head, and shouting, "Forward! follow me!
quick trot! gallop!" he dashes headlong down the stony road. The first
company and most of the second follow.

From the left a thousand muzzles belch forth a hissing flood of bullets;
the poor fellows clutch wildly at the air and fall from their saddles,
and maddened horses throw themselves against the fences.

Their speed is not for an instant checked; farther down the hill they
fly, like wasps driven by the leaden storm. Sharp volleys pour out of
the underbrush at the left, clearing wide gaps through their ranks.

They leap the brook, take down the fence, and draw up under the shelter
of the hill. Zagonyi looks around him, and to his horror sees that
only a fourth of his men are with him.

He cries, "They do not come,--we are lost!" and frantically waves his
sabre.

He has not long to wait. The delay of the rest of the Guard was not from
hesitation. When Captain Foley reached the lower corner of the wood and
saw the enemy's line, he thought a flank attack might be advantageously
made.

He ordered some of his men to dismount and take down the fence.
This was done under a severe fire. Several men fell, and he found the wood
so dense that it could not be penetrated.

Looking down the hill, he saw the flash of Zagonyi's sabre, and at once
gave the order, "Forward!"

At the same time, Lieutenant Kennedy, a stalwart Kentuckian, shouted,
"Come on, boys! remember Old Kentucky!" and the third company of
the Guard, fire on every side of them,--from behind trees, from under the
fences,--with thundering strides and loud cheers, poured down the
slope and rushed to the side of Zagonyi.

They have lost seventy dead and wounded men, and the carcasses of horses
are strewn along the lane.
Kennedy is wounded in the arm and lies upon the stones, his faithful
charger standing motionless beside him. Lieutenant Goff received a wound
in the thigh; he kept his seat, and cried out, "The devils have hit
me, but I will give it to them yet!"
The remnant of the Guard are now in the field under the hill, and from the
shape of the ground the Rebel fire sweeps with the roar of a
whirlwind over their heads.

Here we will leave them for a moment, and trace the fortunes of
the Prairie Scouts.

When Foley brought his troop to a halt, Captain Fairbanks, at the head of
the first company of Scouts, was at the point where the first
volley of musketry had been received.

The narrow lane was crowded by a dense mass of struggling horses, and
filled with the tumult of battle. Captain Fairbanks says, and he is
corroborated by several of his men who were near, that at this moment
an officer of the Guard rode up to him and said, "They are flying; take
your men down that lane and cut off their retreat,"--pointing to
the lane at the left.

Captain Fairbanks was not able to identify the person who gave this order.
It certainly did not come from Zagonyi, who was several hundred yards
farther on.

Captain Fairbanks executed the order, followed by the second company of
Prairie Scouts, under Captain Kehoe. When this movement was made,
Captain Naughton, with the Third Irish Dragoons, had not reached the corner
of the lane.

He came up at a gallop, and was about to follow Fairbanks, when he saw
a Guardsman who pointed in the direction in which Zagonyi had gone. He
took this for an order, and obeyed it. When he reached the gap in the
fence, made by Foley, not seeing anything of the Guard, he supposed they
had passed through at that place, and gallantly attempted to follow.
Thirteen men fell in a few minutes. He was shot in the arm and
dismounted.

Lieutenant Connolly spurred into the underbrush and received two balls
through the lungs and one in the left shoulder. The Dragoons, at the
outset not more than fifty strong, were broken, and, dispirited
by the loss of their officers, retired.

A sergeant rallied a few and brought them up to the gap again, and
they were again driven back.

Five of the boldest passed down the hill, joined Zagonyi, and were
conspicuous by their valor during the rest of the day.

--Fairbanks and Kehoe, having gained the rear and left of the enemy's
position, made two or three assaults upon detached parties of the foe, but
did not join in the main attack.

I now return to the Guard. It is forming under the shelter of the hill.

In front with a gentle inclination rises a grassy slope broken by
occasional tree-stumps.

A line of fire upon the summit marks the position of the Rebel infantry,
and nearer and on the top of a lower eminence to the right stand their
horse. Up to this time no Guardsman has struck a blow, but blue coats and
bay horses lie thick along the bloody lane. Their time has come.
Lieutenant Maythenyi with thirty men is ordered to attack the cavalry.
With sabres flashing over their heads, the little band of heroes spring
towards their tremendous foe. Right upon the centre they charge. The dense
mass opens, the blue coats force their way in, and the whole Rebel
squadron scatter in disgraceful flight through the cornfields in the
rear. The bays follow them, sabring the fugitives. Days after, the
enemy's horses lay thick among the uncut corn.

Zagonyi holds his main body until Maythenyi disappears in the cloud
of Rebel cavalry; then his voice rises through the air,--"In open
order,--charge!"

The line opens out to give play to their sword-arm.
Steeds respond to the ardor of their riders, and quick as thought,
with thrilling cheers, the noble hearts rush into the leaden torrent
which pours down the incline.

With unabated fire the gallant fellows press through.

Their fierce onset is not even checked. The foe do not wait for
them,--they waver, break, and fly. The Guardsmen spur into the midst
of the rout, and their fast-falling swords work a terrible revenge.

Some of the boldest of the Southrons retreat into the woods, and
continue a murderous fire from behind trees and thickets.

Seven Guard horses fall upon a space not more that twenty feet square.
As his steed sinks under him, one of the officers is caught around the
shoulders by a grape-vine, and hangs dangling in the air until he is
cut down by his friends.

The Rebel foot are flying in furious haste from the field.

Some take refuge in the fair-ground, some hurry into the cornfield,
but the greater part run along the edge of the wood, swarm over the fence
into the road, and hasten to the village.

The Guardsmen follow. Zagonyi leads them. Over the loudest roar of battle
rings his clarion voice,--"Come on, Old Kentuck!

I'm with you!" And the flash of his sword-blade tells his men where to
go.

As he approaches a barn, a man steps from behind the door and lowers his
rifle; but before it has reached the level, Zagonyi's sabre-point descends
upon his head, and his life-blood leaps to the very top of the huge
barn-door.

The conflict now rages through the village,--in the public square,
and along the streets.

Up and down the Guards ride in squads of three or four, and wherever
they see a group of the enemy charge upon and scatter them. It is hand
to hand. No one but has a share in the fray.

There was at least one soldier in the Southern ranks. A young
officer, superbly mounted, charges alone upon a large body of the
Guard.

He passes through the line unscathed, killing one man. He wheels, charges
back, and again breaks through, killing another man. A third time he rushes
upon the Federal line, a score of sabre-points confront him, a cloud of
bullets fly around him, but he pushes on until he reaches Zagonyi,--he
presses his pistol so close to the Major's side that he feels it
and draws convulsively back, the bullet passes through the front
of Zagonyi's coat, who at the instant runs the daring Rebel through
the body, he falls, and the men, thinking their commander hurt,
kill him with half a dozen wounds.

"He was a brave man," said Zagonyi afterwards, "and I did wish to make
him prisoner."
Meanwhile it has grown dark. The foe have left the village and the battle
has ceased. The assembly is sounded, and the Guard gathers in the _Plaza_.
Not more than eighty mounted men appear: the rest are killed,
wounded, or unhorsed.

At this time one of the most characteristic incidents of the affair
took place.

Just before the charge, Zagonyi directed one of his buglers, a
Frenchman, to sound a signal.

The bugler did not seem to pay any attention to the order, but darted off
with Lieutenant Maythenyi. A few moments afterwards he was observed
in another part of the field vigorously pursuing the flying infantry.

His active form was always seen in the thickest of the fight. When the
line was formed in the _Plaza_, Zagonyi noticed the bugler, and approaching
him said, "In the midst of the battle you disobeyed my order. You
are unworthy to be a member of the Guard. I dismiss you." The bugler
showed his bugle to his indignant commander;--the mouth-piece of
the instrument was shot away.

He said, "The mouth was shoot off.

I could not bugle viz mon bugle, and so I bugle viz mon pistol and
sabre."

It is unnecessary to add, the brave Frenchman was not dismissed.

I must not forget to mention Sergeant Hunter, of the Kentucky company.
His soldierly figure never failed to attract the eye in the ranks of
the Guard. He had served in the regular cavalry, and the Body-Guard
had profited greatly from his skill as a drill-master. He lost three
horses in the fight.

As soon as one was killed, he caught another from the Rebels: the third
horse taken by him in this way he rode into St. Louis.

The Sergeant slew five men.

"I won't speak of those I shot," said he,--"another may have hit them;
but those I touched with my sabre I am sure of, because I _felt_ them."

At the beginning of the charge, he came to the extreme right and
took position next to Zagonyi, whom he followed closely through the
battle.

The Major, seeing him, said,--
"Why are you here, Sergeant Hunter? Your place is with your company on the
left."
"I kind o' wanted to be in the front," was the answer.

"What could I say to such a man?"

exclaimed Zagonyi, speaking of the matter afterwards.

There was hardly a horse or rider among the survivors that did not bring
away some mark of the fray. I saw one animal with no less than seven
wounds,--none of them serious.

Scabbards were bent, clothes and caps pierced, pistols injured. I saw one
pistol from which the sight had been cut as neatly as it could have been
done by machinery. A piece of board a few inches long was cut from a
fence on the field, in which there were thirty-one shot-holes.

It was now nine o'clock. The wounded had been carried to the hospital.
The dismounted troopers were placed in charge of them,--in the double
capacity of nurses and guards. Zagonyi expected the foe to return every
minute. It seemed like madness to try and hold the town with his small
force, exhausted by the long march and desperate fight.

He therefore left Springfield, and retired before morning twenty-five
miles on the Bolivar road.

Captain Fairbanks did not see his commander after leaving the column
in the lane, at the commencement of the engagement. About dusk he repaired
to the prairie, and remained there within a mile of the village
until midnight, when he followed Zagonyi, rejoining him in the
morning.

I will now return to Major White. During the conflict upon the hill,
he was in the forest near the front of the Rebel line. Here his
horse was shot under him. Captain Wroton kept careful watch over him.
When the flight began he hurried White away, and, accompanied by a squad
of eleven men, took him ten miles into the country.

They stopped at a farm-house for the night. White discovered that their
host was a Union man. His parole having expired, he took advantage
of the momentary absence of his captor to speak to the farmer, telling him
who he was, and asking him to send for assistance.

The countryman mounted his son upon his swiftest horse, and sent him
for succor. The party lay down by the fire, White being placed in the
midst. The Rebels were soon asleep, but there was no sleep for the Major.
He listened anxiously for the footsteps of his rescuers. After
long, weary hours, he heard the tramp of horses. He arose, and
walking on tiptoe, cautiously stepping over his sleeping guards, he reached
the door and silently unfastened it. The Union men rushed into
the room and took the astonished Wroton and his followers prisoners. At
daybreak White rode into Springfield at the head of his captives
and a motley band of Home-Guards.

He found the Federals still in possession of the place. As the officer of
highest rank, be took command. His garrison consisted of twenty-four
men. He stationed twenty-two of them as pickets in the outskirts
of the village, and held the other two as a reserve.

At noon the enemy sent in a flag of truce, and asked permission to
bury their dead. Major White received the flag with proper ceremony, but
said that General Sigel was in command and the request would have to be
referred to him.

Sigel was then forty miles away.

In a short time a written communication purporting to come from General
Sigel, saying that the Rebels might send a party under certain
restrictions to bury their dead, White drew in some of his pickets,
stationed them about the field, and under their surveillance the Southern
dead were buried.

The loss of the enemy, as reported by some of their working party, was
one hundred and sixteen killed. The number of wounded could not be
ascertained.

After the conflict had drifted away from the hill-side, some of the foe
had returned to the field, taken away their wounded, and robbed our dead.
The loss of the Guard was fifty-three out of one hundred and forty-eight
actually engaged, twelve men having been left by Zagonyi in charge of his
train.

The Prairie Scouts reported a loss of thirty-one out of one hundred and
thirty: half of these belonged to the Irish Dragoons. In a neighboring
field an Irishman was found stark and stiff, still clinging to the hilt
of his sword, which was thrust through the body of a Rebel who lay
beside him. Within a few feet a second Rebel lay, shot through the
head.

I have given a statement of this affair drawn from the testimony taken
before a Court of Inquiry, from conversations with men who were engaged
upon both sides, and from a careful examination of the locality.
It was the first essay of raw troops, and yet there are few more brilliant
achievements in history.

It is humiliating to be obliged to tell what followed.

The heroism of the Guard was rewarded by such treatment as we blush to
record. Upon their return to St. Louis, rations and forage were denied
them, the men were compelled to wear the clothing soiled and torn in
battle, they were promptly disbanded, and the officers retired from
service.

The swords which pricked the clouds and let the joyful sunshine of
victory into the darkness of constant defeat are now idle. But the
fame of the Guard is secure.He is
very docile, excepting when attacked or irritated"--(descriptive growls
from the Missing Link)--"when he displays extraordinary activity in
pursuit of his foes"--(display of extraordinary activity by Madhi,
swinging on the bar, racing round the cage, roaring, &c.). "He is very
human in his appearance, as you will observe, and is much more upright in
his carriage than the gorilla, while his mild and benevolent expression
in repose"--(mild and benevolent expression artfully simulated by the
Missing Link)--"gives his countenance a certain manly beauty and dignity.
Looking at him thus, ladies, no one will deny that he stands for the
missing link in the chain leading from the small ape up through the
gorilla to the noblest work of God." The Professor finished chin up,
heels together, eyes lifted, and the left hand thrust in the vest, a la
Napoleon--to signify the highest effort of a benign Providence.

Here Ammonia created a diversion by squealing angrily, spitting at the
Missing Link, and clawing for him in a paroxysm of professional envy.

"I think, ladies," continued Professor Thunder in his best manner, "that
even those who discard the Darwinian hypothesis because of their
objection to acknowledging relationship with the monkeys should have no
reluctance to admit some distant connection with this noble and
intelligent being, so like man in bearing and intellect, and yet so
closely allied to the gorilla that we cannot deny--Blazes and fury!"

The Professor's indecorous ejaculation was in spired by the mean,
vicious, and unsportsmanlike conduct of Ammonia the gorilla, who had
succeeded in gripping Mahdi by one leg, and was hanging on, squealing
frightfully.

"Pull him off! Pull him off!" yelled the Missing Link, forgetting
everything in the moment of pain and, peril.

Instantly the whole show was thrown into commotion. Miss Arnott screamed,
her pupils screamed, the monkeys all rattled at their cages and jabbered
excitedly; the Professor, the Living Skeleton, and Madame Marve added to
the uproar.

Ammonia, having his hated rival in his power at last, was determined to
glut his hate. He secured a grip with the other iron talon, dragged
Nickie down, and pulling him close to the bars, and pushing his short
nose between the rods, bit at him with gleaming teeth, and all the time
he clawed furiously, his nails tearing through the hide of the Missing
Link, and lacerating the man beneath pitilessly.

Nickie fought and yelled and swore, in good strong Australian. Miss
Arnott's pupils, huddled together, staring with round, horrified eyes,
and as they stared a truly horrible thing happened. The skin was torn
clean from the upper part of the Missing Link, and the bare,
blood-stained head and shoulders of a man emerged.

That was too much for a well-conducted ladies seminary. With a final
ear-piercing scream in chorus the school turned and fled; it broke
pell-mell from the tent, headed by Miss Arnott, who executed a remarkable
sprint, taking her age, her dignity and her lack of training into
consideration.

It was Madame Marve who rescued Nickie from the clutches of the gorilla,
having subdued the brute with a discharge from a squirt charged with
ammonia; but Professor Thunder was not thankful, he hadn't time, his
magnificent mind was already busy on ways and means of repairing the
mischief done to his Missing Link and to his reputation as an honourable
showman.

Of course, the revelation resulting from Ammonia's misconduct would go
round the place like wildfire. There might be a raid of indignant
residents, a prosecution for fraud, and there wasn't time to run.

The raid came in due time. Ten heads of families accompanied by Quinn,
the local constable, bore down upon the Museum of Marvels within an hour.
Professor Thunder met them at the entrance, with his studious manner and
his solemn black hat. The raid was going to express itself forcibly; it
did refer to "iniquitous frauds," "shameful imposition," "scoundrels,"
&c., but the Professor's big, penetrating voice, his heavy-as-lead
manner, triumphed.

"Most unfortunate, gentlemen, a most lamentable disaster," he said. "My
valuable Missing Link is more seriously injured than I imagined, and I
may lose him, which would be a heavy blow, indeed, as the College of
Naturalists of London, values the beast at four thousand and seventy
pounds."

"It's a fraud--a blanky imposition!" cried a fierce little man.

"Gentlemen will you favour me by stepping into the museum, and judging
for yourself," said Thunder gravely. "You will find the Missing Link in a
low state, but Madame Marve has done all that surgical skill could do.
The murderous attacks of the gorilla scalped the poor creature, and tore
the skin from his body, but the wounds have been stitched up--there is
still hope. This way, gentle men, and quietly, if you please."

The surprised and subdued deputation found Mahdi, the Missing Link, lying
moaning on his straw, his wounds--artfully bloodstained--all stitched up.
There were white bandages about his head and his injured arms.

"But the girls say it was a man gasped the fierce deputationist.

"A not unnatural mistake, my dear sir," said the Professor, "Strip the
poor creature of its hairy hide and its resemblance to a human creature
would deceive the most expert naturalist."

"Wonderful!" said the local publican.

"But all the same, me mahn," said Quinn, regretfully, "I have half a
moind t' prosecute yeh fer croolty t' animals."

The trick worked, however, the situation was saved, and that night all
Bunkers flocked to see the Missing Link that had been flayed in its
life-and-death struggle with an infuriated gorilla.


CHAPTER X.

THE STOLEN BABE.

IN the larger townships and the small towns visit by the museum of
Marvels on its provincial tour, Professor Thunder, gifted manager of this
"colossal amusement enterprise," as the streamers eloquently phrased it,
preferred to secure a shop in the main street to pitching his tent in
some out-of-the-way place, where his persuasive powers might be wasted on
the desert air.

The Professor flattered himself there was not a more seductive
"spruicher" in the business, and, mounted on a gin case at a shop front
plentifully papered with screaming posters depicting the more popular
attractions, he reckoned that he could always lure a given number of
people into the show by the sheer force of his eloquence, and so make up
the rent, provided there were men and women in the street willing to
listen.

Professor Thunder had found a vacant shop to suit him near the end of
Main-street, Wangaroo. He would have preferred a central site at the same
price, or even less, but none was available. However, business was so
good on the first afternoon and evening that he resolved to extend his
Wangaroo season into the following week. This involved a day of idleness,
an unemployed Sunday, a boon that rarely came to the partakers in
Professor Thunder's godless enterprises, the day of rest usually being
given over to travel and arduous preparations for a Monday matinee.

Nicholas Crips was well content with the change of dates. He certainly
took a good deal of natural pride in his marked success as the most
artistic and realistic representative of the missing link, and toyed in
the reputation he was rapidly making for himself in the show business;
but for all that, it was a great relief to throw off the hide of the
celebrated man-monkey, drop the exactions of art, and be himself for a
whole day.

Nickie did not find, as many celebrated actors have done, that the work
of sustaining a grand role day after day, night after night, week after
week, and month after month, was too exacting; he bore the strain with
consummate ease; moreover, the most conscientious artist wishes to be
himself once now and again, if merely for a change.

The shop in Wangaroo occupied by the Museum of Marvels was rented from a
Chinese greengrocer, who carried on a business next door. The place had
originally been one shop, but Kit See, with the frugality of his race,
had partitioned it roughly, and with Oriental astuteness let the half for
nearly as much as he paid for the whole.

Kit See was a stout, cream Confucian with an oleaginous smile, and the
gentle, propitiatory man of an inferior people, cunning enough to realise
that if you cannot dominate it is wisest to be docile. He had a good
stock, a good business, a half-caste wife, and a noiseless, placid,
slit-eyed baby about the size of a Bologna sausage.

The Missing Link discovered this much through a crack in the partition,
and amused himself with his eyes glued to the slit when there were no
professional demands on his time and talents.

Most things that Mahdi did irritated Ammonia, whose jealousy and hatred
were intensified by Nickie's habit, when in a playful humour, of teasing
the gorilla by ostentatiously devouring delicacies Ammonia particularly
affected in Ammonia's sight, almost within his reach.

Nickie's interest in that hole in the wall was a course of consuming
anxiety to Ammonia. While Mahdi had his eye to the wall, the gorilla
would cling to the bars of his cage, pushing his blunt nose through, and
gibber and spit and protest in a high-pitched, querulous growl.

"Blime, yiv got the noble Ammonia goin' this trip, Nickie," said the
Living Skeleton.

"Yes," replied Nickie, still with his eye to the crack, "that beast will
have to learn decency and good conduct, Matty, my man. I aspire to teach
him moral restraint."

"He'll do you a bad turn one o' them days, mark me."

"I believe not," said the Missing Link. "I've got something here that
will always reduce him to reason." Nickie touched his breast. "I say,
Matthew, this Chow next door is a luxurious heathen. He's got all sorts
of lovely preserved fruits in beautiful juices, and cakes, and ginger
floating in its own gravy, and there is a bottle of Chinese brand under
the counter. Now, Matthew, I think it is a sin to encourage the inferior
races to indulge in intoxicants."

"Don't," cried the Living Skeleton, a ring of anguish in his tones. "Yeh
know, it's agin the rules t' talk t' me of things t' eat. It makes me
fat." Poor Matty Cann groaned aloud. "Is there anythin' substantial?" he
asked pitifully.

"Not just now," said Nickie, "but last night I watched the Chow and his
missus dining on roast duck. You notice there's a door in this partition
just at the back of my cage. Curious, is it not? Well, I found an old
rusty key in the crack under the wall, and it fits the lock of that door.
Remarkable that, don't you think? Now, I shan't be surprised if some of
those Chow delicacies find their way in here most unaccountably."

"What's it t' me if they do?" sighed Matty. "I wouldn't dare t' eat 'em.
If I did the boss would find I was puttin' on flesh, an' I'd be doin' a
bunk."

"But I suppose a drop of Chinese brandy wouldn't entirely spoil your
figure, my boy."

The Chinese delicacies did find their way into the cage of the Missing
Link, quite a fine assortment of them, also the bottle of Celestial
spirits. Ammonia witnessed the process of transference that night, and
nearly went mad in his cage, springing about wildly, clinging to the
bars, squealing and certainly blaspheming in his peculiar monkey
gibberish, and Nicholas Crips sat in his cage, impishly eager to goad his
enemy to fury, and ate luscious figs and fine preserves, while the
gorilla strained at the intervening bars and shrilled his anguish.

After this there were other casual visits to the shop of Kit See, and
Ammonia's curiosity concerning the mysterious place from which the
Missing Link drew such delectable supplies kept him at the back of his
cage for hours together, peering at the wall, scratching it, and whining
impotently.

Evidently Kit See was troubled in his mind, too, for he came into the
show to examine the door in the wall, and finding the cage of the Missing
Link right up against it, and the formidable monster sleeping in the
straw, was satisfied that the petty larcenist found access to his goods
in some other way.

On the Sunday, Nickie and the Living Skeleton walked abroad, seeing the
sights of Wangaroo, including a waterfall; a hanging rock, and a
cemetery, the latter the favourite resort of the elite and fashion of
Wangaroo on Sundays. Mat's skeleton proportions were disguised in a long
overcoat, and Nickie wore a loud theatrical suit, and a conspicuous
clean-shave. He thought he looked like Henry Irving. He didn't see why he
shouldn't.

The company ate a late dinner in a room behind the show that evening.
Amiable Madame Marve had prepared an excellent meal, in which the
regulation beer and boiled leg of mutton course was relieved of monotony
with vegetables and dumplings. There was soup before and pudding after,
and in a burst of gratitude the Missing Link proposed the health of the
Egyptian Mystic which was being drunk with enthusiasm in Chinese brandy,
when suddenly a great racket arose in the yard, shouts and screams were
heard from the street, and Kit See burst in upon the dinner party, his
Celestial fade pale with terror, his usually benignant eyes round with
apprehension.

"What' for? Wha' far?" screamed the Chinaman at Professor Thunder. "Come!
Come! You come dam quick! Monkey he stealem my baby."

"Wha--at?" yelled the Professor.

"The monkey cally baby away alonga house-top si'." Kit pointed to the
ceiling. He was dancing with anguish.

The Professor dashed for the caravan cage, and was back in a minute.
"It's Ammonia," he cried, wild with excitement. "He's broke loose. He's
got the Chinaman's baby on the roof."

Kit See ran into the street, the Professor turned to follow, but Nickie
seized him.

"Hold hard," he said, "there's no hurry, no hurry in the world. Let us
think this thing out."

"No hurry!" snorted the Professor, "and that infernal gorilla waltzing
round up there with a live baby?" The Professor's tragic manner would
have been the making of a cheap melodrama.

"Did you ever know Ammonia drop anything he'd once taken a good grip of?
The youngster's safe for a while. It strike me we can make a hit out of
this. How will it read in the Wangaroo 'Guardian': 'Child stolen by a
gorilla. Rescue by Professor Thunder's famous Missing Link'?"

Professor Thunder stopped with a gasp. "Holy Joseph!" he said, "that's a
noble thought, my boy. Can it be done?"

"You get out there and keep the crowd from overexerting itself. Leave the
rest to me."

Professor Thunder dashed out by the front door. There was already a large
and vociferous crowd in the road, staring up at the gorilla,
gesticulating and yelling, and people were coming running from all
directions. On the side of the road stood Kit See, weeping, and
brandishing his arms helplessly in the face of this grand calamity.
Aloft, on the top of one of the chimneys, about three feet above the
roof, sat the gorilla. In one of his hind claws he held the baby's
clothing, and the youngster dangled, apparently disregarded by Ammonia,
who, despite the terrors of the situation, cut a most ridiculous figure,
for he was composedly sucking the milk from the baby's bottle, keeping
his vindictive eyes on the crowd the while.

"For God's sake keep quiet," thundered the Professor to the excited
crowd. "Do not irritate him, and all will be well." He dragged to the
ground a heroic Cousin Jack miner who was climbing the verandah post.
"Back, man, back," he cried, "or all is lost."

The Professor strode up and down with all a heavy villain's
impressiveness and orated. His eloquence was drowned by a great
hullabaloo at the next corner, and with a rattle and a yell four firemen
came tearing down the road with a hose-reel. Some excited individual had,
rung the fire-bell. The firemen attached the hose to a plug, and came on,
hydrant in hand. It required all the Professor's energies, supplemented
by the frenzied protestations of Kit See, to prevent them turning a full
stream of water on the gorilla.

The crowd was now a large one, gathered far out on the road, where a good
view of the roof was obtainable, and when the excitement occasioned by
the fire men had subsided, a fresh outburst was provoked by the
appearance of another huge monkey, the great bulk of which came up slowly
over the left ridge. To the last he retained what his son described as
"his own strange sweetness of soul." It was the close of a useful,
unworldly, unambitious life, full of innocent enjoyment and deep
affection.

The occasion was not one for intemperate grief, but the sense of loss
was great. Miss Browning, whose devotion during many years first to her
mother, then to her widowed father, had been entire, now became her brother's
constant companion.

They rested for the summer at Le Croisic, a little town in Brittany,
in a delightfully spacious old house, with the sea to right and left,
through whose great rushing waves Browning loved to battle, and, inland,
a wild country, picturesque with its flap-hatted, white-clad,
baggy-breeched villagers. Their enjoyment was unspoilt even by some weeks
of disagreeable weather, and to the same place, which Browning has
described in his _Two Poets of Croisic_--
Croisic, the spit of sandy rock which juts Spitefully north,
they returned in the following summer.

During this second visit (September 1867) that most spirited ballad of
French heroism, _Hervé
Riel_, was written, though its publication belongs to four years
later.[94]
In June 1868 came grief of a kind that seemed to cut him off from
outward communication with a portion of what was most precious in
his past life.

Arabel Barrett, his wife's only surviving sister, who had supported him
in his greatest sorrow, died in Browning's arms. "For many years,"
we are told by Mr Gosse, "he was careful never to pass her house in
Delamere Terrace."

Although not prone to superstition, he had noted in July 1863 a dream
of Miss Barrett in which she imagined herself asking her dead sister
Elizabeth, "When shall I be with you?" and received the answer, "Dearest,
in five years." "Only a coincidence," he adds in a letter to Miss
Blagden, "but noticeable."

That summer, after wanderings in France, Browning and his sister settled
at Audierne, on the extreme westerly point of Brittany, "a delightful,
quite unspoiled little fishing town," with the ocean in front and green
lanes and hills behind. It was in every way an eventful year. In the autumn
his new publishers, Smith, Elder & Co., produced the six-volume edition
of his Poetical Works, on the title-page of which the author describes
himself as "Robert Browning, M.A., Honorary Fellow of Balliol College,
Oxford." The distinction, partly due to Jowett's influence, had been
conferred a year previously.

In 1865, Browning, who desired that his son should be educated at Oxford,
first became acquainted with Jowett. Acquaintance quickly ripened into
friendship, which was not the less genuine or cordial because
Jowett had but a qualified esteem for Browning's poems.

"Ought one to admire one's friend's poetry?" was a difficult question
of casuistry which the Master of Balliol at one time proposed. Much
of Browning's work appeared to him to be "extravagant, perverse,
topsy-turvy"; "there is no rest in him," Jowett wrote with special
reference to the poems "Christmas Eve" and "Easter Day," which he regarded
as Browning's noblest work. But for the man his admiration was
deep-based and substantial.

After Browning's first visit to him in June 1865, Jowett wrote that
though getting too old to make, as he supposed, new friends, he
had--he believed--made one.

"It is impossible to speak without enthusiasm of Mr Browning's open,
generous nature and his great ability and knowledge.

I had no idea that there was a perfectly sensible poet in the world,
entirely free from vanity, jealousy, or any other littleness, and thinking
no more of himself than any ordinary man. His great energy is very
remarkable, and his determination to make the most of the remainder
of life.

Of personal objects he seems to have none except the education of his
son."[95] Browning's visits to Oxford and Cambridge did not cease when
he dropped away from the round of visiting at country houses. He writes
with frank enjoyment of the almost interminable banquet given at Balliol
in the Lent Term, 1877, on the occasion of the opening of the new
Hall. Oxford conferred upon him her D.C.L. in 1882, on which occasion
a happy undergraduate jester sent fluttering towards the new Doctor's
head an appropriate allusion in the form of a red cotton night-cap. The
Cambridge LL.D. was conferred in 1879.

In 1871 he was elected a Life Governor of the University of London. In
1868 he was invited to stand, with the certainty of election, for the Lord
Rectorship of the University of St Andrews, as successor to John Stuart
Mill, an honour which he declined.[96] The great event of this year in
the history of his authorship was the publication in November and
December of the first two volumes of _The Ring and the Book_. The two
remaining volumes followed in January and February 1869.

[Illustration: PIAZZA DI SAN LORENZO, FLORENCE, WHERE "THE BOOK" WAS
FOUND BY BROWNING.

_From a photograph by_ ALINARI.]
In June 1860 Browning lighted, among the litter of odds and ends exposed
for sale in the Piazza San Lorenzo, Florence, upon the "square old yellow
book," part print, part manuscript, which contained the crude fact
from which his poem of the Franceschini murder case was developed.
The price was a lira, "eightpence English just." As he leaned by the
fountain and walked through street and street, he read, and had mastered
the contents before his foot was on the threshold of Casa Guidi[97].
That night his brain was a-work; pacing the terrace of Casa Guidi, while
from Felice church opposite came

the clear voice of the cloistered ones, Chanting a chant made for
mid-summer nights,
he gave himself up to the excitement of re-creating the actors and re-enacting
their deeds in his imagination:

I fused my live soul and that inert stuff, Before attempting
smithcraft.

According to Mr Rudolf Lehmann, but possibly he has antedated the
incident, Browning at once conceived the mode in which the subject could
be treated in poetry, and it was precisely the mode which was
afterwards adopted: "'When I had read the book,' so Browning told
me, 'my plan was at once settled.

I went for a walk, gathered twelve pebbles from the road, and put
them at equal distances on the parapet that bordered it.

Those represented the twelve chapters into which the poem is divided,
and I adhered to that arrangement to the last

.'"[98] When in the autumn he journeyed with his wife to Rome, the vellum-bound
quarto was with him, but the persons from whom he sought further
light about the murder and the trial could give little information
or none.

Smithcraft did not soon begin. He offered the story, "for prose treatment"
to Miss Ogle, so we are informed by Mrs Orr, and, she adds, but with less
assurance of statement, offered it "for poetic use to one of his
leading contemporaries."

We have seen that in a letter of 1862 from Biarritz, Browning speaks of the
Roman murder case as being the subject of a new poem already clearly
conceived though unwritten.

In the last section of _The Ring and the Book_, he refers to having been
in close converse with his old quarto of the Piazza San Lorenzo
during four years:

How will it be, my four-years' intimate, When thou and I part company
anon?

The publication of _Dramatis Personae_ in 1864 doubtless enabled Browning
to give undivided attention to his vast design. In October of that
year he advanced to actual definition of his scheme.

When staying in the south of France he visited the mountain gorge which
is connected with the adventure of the Roland of romance, and there
he planned the whole poem precisely as it was carried out.

"He says," Mr W.M. Rossetti enters in his diary after a conversation with
Browning (15 March 1868), "he writes day by day on a regular systematic
plan--some three hours in the early part of the day; he seldom or never,
unless in quite brief poems, feels the inspiring impulse and sets
the thing down into words at the same time--often stores up a subject
long before he writes it.

He has written his forthcoming work all consecutively--not some of the
later parts before the earlier."[99]

When Carlyle met Browning after the appearance of _The Ring and the
Book_, he desired to be complimentary, but was hardly more felicitous
than Browning himself had sometimes been when under a like necessity:

"It is a wonderful book," declared Carlyle, "one of the most wonderful
poems ever written. I re-read it all through--all made out of an Old
Bailey story that might have been told in ten lines, and only wants
forgetting."[100] A like remark might have been made respecting the
book which, in its method and its range of all English books most
resembles Browning's poem, and which may indeed be said to take among
prose works of fiction a similar place to that held among poetical
creations by Browning's tale of Guido and Pompilia. Richardson's
_Clarissa_ consists of eight volumes made out of an Old Bailey story, or
what might have been such, which one short newspaper paragraph
could have dismissed to a happy or sorrowful oblivion.

But then we should never have known two of the most impressive figures
invented by the imagination of man, Clarissa and her wronger; and
had we not heard their story from all the participators and told with
Richardson's characteristic interest in the microscopy of the human heart,
it could never have possessed our minds with that full sense of its reality
which is the experience of every reader.

Out of the infinitesimally little emerges what is great; out of the transitory
moments rise the forms that endure. It is of little profit to discuss
the question whether Richardson could have effected his purpose in
four volumes instead of eight, or whether Browning ought to have
contented himself with ten thousand lines of verse instead of twenty
thousand.

No one probably has said of either work that it is too short, and
many have uttered the sentence of the critical Polonius--"This is
too long."

But neither _Clarissa_ nor _The Ring and the Book_ is one of the Hundred
Merry Tales; the purpose of each writer is triumphantly effected; and
while we wish that the same effect could have been produced by
means less elaborate, it is not safe to assert confidently that
this was possible.

It has often been said that the story is told ten times over by almost as
many speakers; it would be more correct to say that the story is
not told even once.

Nine different speakers tell nine different stories, stories of varying
incidents about different persons--for the Pompilia of Guido and the
Pompilia of Caponsacchi are as remote, each from other, as a
marsh-fire from a star, and so with the rest.

In the end we are left to invent the story for ourselves--not indeed
without sufficient guidance towards the truth of things, since the
successive speeches are a discipline in distinguishing the several
values of human testimony.

We become familiar with idols of the cave, idols of the tribe, idols
of the market-place, and shall recognise them if we meet them again.

Gossipry on this side is checked and controlled by gossipry on that;
and the nicely balanced indifferentism of men emasculate, blank of belief,
who play with the realities of life, is set forth with its superior
foolishness of wisdom. The advocacy which consists of professional
self-display is exhibited genially, humorously, an advocacy horn-eyed to
the truth of its own case, to every truth, indeed, save one--that
which commends the advocate himself, his ingenious wit, and his
flowers of rhetoric.

The criminal is allowed his due portion of veracity and his fragment of
truth--"What shall a man give for his life?"

He has enough truth to enable him to fold a cloud across the light, to
wrench away the sign-posts and reverse their pointing hands, to
remove the land-marks, to set up false signal fires upon the rocks.

And then are heard three successive voices, each of which, and each
in a different way, brings to our mind the words, "But there is
a spirit in man; and the inspiration of the Almighty giveth them understanding."
First the voice of the pure passion of manhood, which is naked
and unashamed; a voice terrible in its sincerity, absolute in its abandonment
to truth, prophet-like in its carelessness of personal consequences,
its carelessness of all except the deliverance of a message--and
yet withal a courtly voice, and, if it please, ironical.

It is as if Elihu the son of Barachel stood up and his wrath were kindled:
"Behold my belly is as wine which hath no vent; it is ready to burst like
new bottles. I will speak that I may be refreshed." And yet we dare
not say that Caponsacchi's truth is the whole truth; he speaks like a man
newly converted, still astonished by the supernatural light, and
inaccessible to many things visible in the light of common day.

Next, a voice from one who is human indeed "to the red-ripe of the heart,"
but who is already withdrawn from all the turbulence and turbidity of
life; the voice of a woman who is still a child; of a mother who is still
virginal; of primitive instinct, which comes from God, and spiritual
desire kindled by that saintly knighthood that had saved her; a
voice from the edge of the world, where the dawn of another world
has begun to tremble and grow luminous,--uttering its fragment of
the truth.

Last, the voice of old age, and authority and matured experience,
and divine illumination, old age encompassed by much doubt and
weariness and human infirmity, a solemn, pondering voice, which,
with God somewhere in the clear-obscure, goes sounding on a dim and
perilous way, until in a moment this voice of the anxious explorer
for truth changes to the voice of the unalterable justicer, the
armed doomsman of righteousness.

Truth absolute is not attained by any one of the speakers; that,
Browning would say, is the concern of God. And so, at the close, we are
directed to take to heart the lesson
That our human speech is naught, Our human testimony false, our
fame And human estimation words and wind.

But there are degrees of approximation to truth and of remoteness
from it. Truth as apprehended by pure passion, truth as apprehended
by simplicity of soul ("And a little child shall lead them"), truth as
apprehended by spiritual experience--such respectively make up the substance
of the monologues of Caponsacchi, of Pompilia, and of the Pope. For
the valuation, however, of this loftier testimony we require a sense of
the level ground, even if it be the fen-country. A perception of the
heights must be given by exhibiting the plain. If we were carried up in
the air and heard these voices how should we know for certain that we had
not become inhabitants of some Cloudcuckootown?

And the plain is where we ordinarily live and move; it has its rights, and
is worth understanding for its own sake. Therefore we shall mix our
mind with that of "Half-Rome" and "The Other Half-Rome" before we climb
any mounts of transfiguration or enter any city set upon a hill. The
"man in the street" is a veritable person, and it is good that we should
make his acquaintance; even the man in the _salon_ may speak his
mind if he will; such shallow excitements, such idle curiosities
as theirs will enable us better to appreciate the upheaval to the
depths in the heart of Caponsacchi, the quietude, and the rapt joy
in quietude, of Pompilia, the profound searchings of spirit that
proceed all through the droop of that sombre February day in the
closet of the Pope.

And, then, at the most tragic moment and when pathos is most poignant,
life goes on, and the world is wide, and laughter is not banished from
earth. Therefore Dominus Hyacinthus de Archangelis, Procurator of the
Poor, shall make his ingenious notes for the defence of Count Guido, and
cite his precedents and quote his authorities, and darken counsel with
words, all to be by and by ecclesiasticized and regularized and
Latinized and Ciceroized, while more than half the good man's mind
is occupied with thought of the imminent "lovesome frolic feast"
on his boy Cinone's birth-night, which shall bring with it lamb's
fry and liver, stung out of its monotony of richness by parsley-sprigs
and fennel.

Yes, and we shall hear also the other side--how, in a florilegium of
Latin, selected to honour aright the Graces and the Muses and the majesty
of Law, Johannes-Baptista Bottinius can do justice to his client
and to his own genius by showing, with due exordium and argument
and peroration, that Pompilia is all that her worst adversaries
allege, and yet can be established innocent, or not so very guilty,
by her rhetorician's learning and legal deftness in quart and
tierce.

The secondary personages in Richardson's "Clarissa" grow somewhat
faint in our memories; but the figures of his heroine and of Lovelace
remain not only uneffaceable but undimmed by time.

Four of the _dramatis personae_ of Browning's poem in like manner
possess an enduring life, which shows no decline or abatement after the
effect of the monologues by the other speakers has been produced and
the speakers themselves almost forgotten. Count Guide Franceschini is
not a miracle of evil rendered credible, like Shakespeare's Iago, nor
a strange enormity of tyrannous hate and lust like the Count Cenci
of Shelley.

He has no spirit of diabolic revelry in crime; no feeling for its delicate
artistry; he is under no spell of fascination derived from its horror.

He is clumsy in his fraud and coarse in his violence.
Madame Marve, the Egyptian Mystic, favoured the scheme, and Professor
Thunder agreed. The caravan was prepared, and Madame Marve, wearing a
much bespangled, but rather seedy, pantomime, fairy costume, stood by the
box seat, playing a lively air on the cornet; Professor Thunder, with a
flowing mane of hair and a Buffalo Bill rig-out, drove the horses. From
the sides of the big vehicle hung highly-coloured posters, while above
flared the name of the show in long, red letters.

The black mare Nickie rode was one of the three hired to drag the Museum
into Bullfrog. She was a rather spirited little beast, and had shown
great perturbation when Mr. Crips, in his full make-up as Mahdi, the
Missing Link, approached to mount. Now she cantered ahead at a smart
pace, still nervous about the monstrous thing upon her back. The caravan
came rattling after, Professor Thunder keeping up a volley of whip
cracks, and Madame tooting gaily.

It was early in the day, and the township had lain drowsing in its dust
under the shimmer of a great yellow sun till this astonishing invasion
struck it, and startled it from its accustomed lethargy. There was a rush
to windows and doors, men fell over each other struggling from Harvey's
bar, a sudden mutiny arose in the little wooden school, and children
swarmed at the windows, and poured pell-mell from the doors. The people
of Bullfrog caught only a fleeting glimpse of a huge monkey crouched
man-wise on a gaily caparisoned pony, of Madame Marve in her fairy
costume, and the gaudy caravan, as the small procession dashed past.

But Constable Cobb, who was drowsing against the shoemaker's doorpost,
saw the amazing thing on the horse approaching as in a dream, and
professional zeal uppermost in his mind, he dashed into the toad, and
grabbed at the rein. The mare, already much distressed, lost her head
entirely at this rude intervention of the law, and rearing high on her
hind legs as she beat the air with her hoofs, plunged wildly, and then
bolted, leaving Constable Cobb on the broad of his back, half stifled in
the dust, with the imprint of a horseshoe on his elegant helmet.

The mare did the circuit of Bullfrog at a furious pace, with the Missing
Link hanging about her neck, and slinging to her ribs with insistent
heels. Never had Bullfrog experienced such a shaking up. People came
running in all directions, eager to see this marvellous thing. The
township was almost obscured in its own dust, and through the clouds of
her own creating came the little mare, scattering the horrified
inhabitants, who caught only fleeting glimpses of the huge, hairy
creature sprawling in the saddle.

When Nickie at length regained his stirrups, and worked himself into an
upright position, he found the mare racing along a rough road between
walls of bush, heading towards Tollbar, whence she had come on the
previous day.

Nickie the Kid was not expert as an equestrian. So far he had clung to
the horse with desperate tenacity, and now that he had recovered his
mental grip to some extent he could think of nothing to restrain the
animal's wild career, but he did think of the awful possibilities of his
position, one of which was an apparent certainty. The horse would carry
him back to Tollbar, to its owner's stable, the township would be drawn
together by the extraordinary spectacle of a horse bolting through the
place mounted by a gigantic monkey, the fraud would be discovered, and
then the inhabitants would deal in their own gentle, characteristic way
with the man who had been party to Professor Thunder's shocking
imposition. Two days earlier Tollbar had patronised the museum.

These cheerful thoughts occupied Nickie's mind while the mare was
negotiating about five miles, and wearing much of the wool off Mahdi, and
not a little cuticle off Mr. Crips; but he was saved the dread ordeal he
anticipated by another disaster. The mare caught a hoof in a rut and came
down heavily, and presently Nickie recovered consciousness, lying on his
back, blinking at the blue sky, gratified to find that he was not dead.

The mare was out of sight, and the Missing Link was at large in the bush,
with a damaged head, a sprained ankle, a cracked rib, and a pain in every
limb. He arose and shook some, of the dust off himself, and then limped
from the road and sat in the shade of a tree, with his back to the butt,
to consider his lamentable situation and feel his injuries.

Nickie's position was certainly an unpleasant one. He could not walk back
to Bullfrog, because he would be certain to meet people by the way, and
the sight of a Missing Link prowling in the Australian hush might lead to
disaster. In any case, the sprained ankle made a five-mile walk
impossible. Nickie could not strip off his monkey make-up, because of the
very scanty undergarments he possessed.

"What the deuce am I to do now?" groaned the victim, gently chafing his
bruises.

He was answered by a shrill scream, an energetic and most piercing
feminine yell of terror, and lifting his startled eyes he beheld a young
girl, clad after the manner of a settler's daughter, standing a few yards
away, staring at him with wild horrified eyes. The girl's fingers were
clutching her hair, her face was white, her limbs convulsed, she seemed
glued to the spot, incapable of movement, but power of screaming remained
with her, and she exerted it to the utmost--she screamed, and screamed,
and screamed again, the bush resounded with the echoes of her agonised
cries.

For a moment Nickie stared back in blank surprise. It had not struck him
that he was the occasion of this frantic demonstration, but presently he
realised that a little screaming was excusable in an excitable young lady
coming suddenly upon a full-grown missing link drowsing under the gums in
her native bush.

Nickie arose, he advanced a step. His intentions were honourable he meant
to offer a full explanation, with apologies, but the girl did not wait;
at his first movement she swung round and fled through the trees, still
screaming.

The Missing Link sat down again with a sigh. Anyhow there must be a
residence near, he was not destined to perish in the bush; but the girl
would rush home with a shocking tale of some hideous monster in the
paddock, her male relations would come to hunt down that monster. Nickie
had had experience of such hunters; he remembered that they carried guns,
and that they were not disposed to delay shooting in order to argue with
a monkey about the sacredness of life.

Mr. Crips had a ready mind, and his peculiar career had taught him the
necessity of prompt action. With eager hands he pulled off his monkey
skin, rolled it up, and stuffed it into a hollow log, with the head-piece
and mask; and then with his singlet he rubbed the make-up off his face,
rubbing off a fair amount of hide in his eagerness. After this he set to
work tearing up the grass tufts, and creating evidence of a struggle. The
blood from a cut in his head came in most useful; he made as big a show
as possible with it. Nicholas Crips next lay down amid the ruin he had
wrought.

Nickie had not long to wait. About twenty minutes later he saw an elderly
man and a youth coming hurriedly through the trees, looking about them
eagerly. Each carried a gun. He sat up and beckoned, and they hastened to
him, not a little astonished to find a strange man clad only in torn
singlet and drawers lying there in the depths of the bush.

"Hullo, mate," said the elder man, "what's amiss?"

Nickie groaned aloud. "Horrible!" he gasped. "Horrible! Horrible!"

The man raised him. "I say, you've been knocked about," he said. "Have
you seen anythin'?"

Nickie nodded feebly. "Yes," he said, "a monkey, an orang-outang, or
something, as big as a man. An awful brute."

"Well, I'm blowed!" gaspe the man. "Then Nell was right. My daughter came
home in a fit; she said a monkey bigger'n me had chased her."

"It's true," murmured Nickie. "It chased me. We had a terrible fight. It
tore all my clothes off about a mile and a half back there near the
creek. I escaped, and it chased me here, and we fought again. I thought
my end had come, when it must have heard you, and it made off through the
bush towards the mountain, going like the wind."

"By cripes!" ejaculated the youth in an awed voice.

"Did he hurt yeh much?" asked the man.

"My ankle's sprained, and I've got a broken rib and a cut head," answered
Nickie; "but losing my clothes is the worst. What is a man to do without
his clothes?"

"You get up to the house, Billy, and bring down my Sunday things," said
the settler. "We'll fix you up all right, mister," he added, addressing
Nickie the Kid, and Nickie smiled warily, and uttered feeble thanks.

They dressed Nickie and took him up to the house and fed him, and then
drove him back to Bullfrog in their spring cart, delivering him into the
hands of Madame Marve, who manifested great joy on receiving back the
unparalleled Missing Link in fairly good condition.

Nickie had explained to the settler that he believed the orang-outang
that attacked him had escaped from Professor Thunder's Museum of Marvels
and that he intended claiming damages.

Later in the day Nickie and the Professor drove out and recovered Mahdi's
outfit from the hollow log, and that evening the Missing Link was again
on view, and exciting much interest, although he sullenly refused to any
further demonstration for the edification of the people of Bullfrog.


CHAPTER XIII.

THE WIDOW AND THE LINK.

THE Museum of Marvels was "resting" at Devil's Head. The Professor was
resting, personally and particularly, on a stretcher bed in a small, hot,
fly-infested room in "The Devil's Head" Hotel, pending the mending of
divers injuries sustained in a disaster that put the show temporarily out
of action. Thunder did not travel with his own horses, finding it much
cheaper to hire a team to pull his caravan from one pitch to another. The
pair of bays engaged to tow the museum, and traps and wares from Field
Hill to Corner Stone had been so upset by the eccentric conduct of a
frenzied inebriate, who fled along the stone road in a woman's
nightdress, being pursued by purely imaginary griffins, dodoes, unicorns
and dragons, all in primary colours, that they wheeled and bolted with
the whole caboodle, and running into a bridge railing upset Professor
Thunder and Professor Thunder's Museum of Marvels into Billy's Creek,
greatly to the detriment of the show, and to the serious discomfort of
the Professor who was pulled from under Ammonia, the gorilla, just when
that amusing animal had almost succeeded in stifling him in the slurry
for which Billy's Creek was famous.

While the Professor rested and underwent repairs, and whiled his time
negotiating for damages with the owner of the horses and the frantic
person in the woman's nightdress, Matty Cann, the' Living Skeleton, and
Nicholas Crips, the Missing Link, were allowed their liberty. The Living
Skeleton went home to the bosom of his affectionate family, with stern
instructions to carefully regulate his diet, and Nickie went on to
Winyip, sworn to preserve professional secrets, and bound to hold himself
in readiness for resumption of duties at a day's notice.

Nickie wore a good suit of store clothes, he bore on his rascally head
quite a reputable hat, his linen was fairly meritorious, his boots were
above reproach, he wore socks like a man accustomed to luxuries, he was
clean-shaven, he jingled money in his pocket. In his varied career Nickie
had had ups and downs; true, his "ups" had been brief, but they were
frequent enough to keep him almost in touch with respectability. At
Winyip, a considerable township in its way, he passed quite easily for a
dramatic artist taking rest and change to dissipate brain fag, the result
of too studious application to his art.

When the Professor was himself again he called his company together and
descended upon Corner Stone. The caravan remained at Corner Stone for a
night and a day, and then moved on to Winyip. Nickie the Kid, for some
reason of his own, strongly opposed the trip to Winyip; possibly because
he was reluctant to appear as a mere man-monkey with a demoralised head
and a rudimentary tail in a township in which he had recently figured to
great advantage as Crips Nicholas, the eminent Shakespearean actor.

Winyip proved to be an excellent show town and Mahdi, the Missing Link,
came in for a good deal of attention, although his performance was more
subdued than ordinarily, and he showed little of the actor's natural
anxiety to monopolise the limelight, but a local moral reformer wrote to
the "Winyip Advertiser and Porkkakeboorabool Standard" enlaring on the
shocking action of a depraved showman in keeping this poor heathen, which
was "almost a human creature," confined in a cage like a beast of the
field. The disputation that followed was kept alive by Professor Thunder.

People flocked to see the wonderful man-monkey, and on the afternoon of
the second day came a tall, stern woman of about forty. She was nearly
six feet high, her nose was large, her chin small and sliding, and she
wore glasses. Across her left arm she nursed a large, shabby umbrella,
and her habitual expression was that of one who has discovered a smell of
drains.

This big woman was very curious. She peered into every hole and corner,
she examined Bonypart, the Living Skeleton, very closely through her
glasses, looking critically at his features, and was equally curious with
the monkeys. She even inspected Professor Thunder with such minuteness,
and with such an air of one who has at last detected a shameful
imposition, that at length the celebrated showman exclaimed with some
grandeur: "Excuse me, ma'am, but I'm not an exhibit."

"Oh," gasped the female, "I beg your pardon. My name is Martha Spink; I
live at 'The Nook.' Do you happen to know a--eh--theatrical person named
Nicholas--Crips Nicholas?"

Professor Thunder had learned caution. "I fancy I have heard the name,"
he said.

"You haven't such a person in your employ?" said the lady.

"No," said the Professor, thoughtfully, as if mentally running over the
names of numerous celebrities on his long pay-roll. "No, I am sure there
is no artist of that name in my company."

"I'll find him," said Mrs. Spink, decisively, firing up, and making
dangerous gestures with her umbrella. "Mark me, I'll find him, and when I
do--" The sweep of her bulky gamp nearly knocked Bonypart off his
platform.

"Carefully, ma'am, carefully," said the Professor, "you came near
breaking a valuable exhibit then. Living Skeletons have to be handled
gingerly, madam. I am sure the ruffian deserves all you can give him. May
I inquire what villain's work he is guilty of?"

"He's been proposin' marriage, that's what he's been doin'," cried Mrs.
Spink. "I'm a widder lady, and he's been proposin' marriage to Me."

"Dangerous, dangerous--very dangerous," said the Professor.

The Living Skeleton looked apprehensively to wards the cage of the
Missing Link, and Mahdi growled fiercely and retreated into the shadows.

"He stayed at my house two weeks," continued the widow, "paid nothing for
board and residence, but made me an honourable proposal of marriage, and
then ran off. But I'll find him."

The Professor was called away to give his scholarly address on the
Darwinian hypothesis for the edification of his patrons, and the fierce
female hung on the outskirts of the audience, and examined the exhibits
suspiciously. When Thunder came to that scale of creation represented by
the Missing Link, Nickie exhibited great ferocity, growling and gnashing
his teeth in a most terrifying manner, but keeping sedulously to the
shadows at the back of the cage. Madame Marve stirred him up with the
long stick kept for the purpose, and the Professor dwelt with feeling on
the worst features of the animal's character. Mrs. Spink peered with
especial eagerness.

Mrs. Martha Spink paid twice for admission before sundown, and at night
she came again. She betrayed extraordinary curiosity concerning the
characteristics and peculiarities of missing links, and her concern had a
powerful effect upon Mahdi. His diffidence was so marked that the
Professor was constrained to excuse it in his descriptive address. "The
poor animal is afflicted with toothache to-day," he said. "Like the best
of us he has his morbid moments."

"S'pose she'll be lookin' yeh up agen t'day, Nickie," whispered the
Living Skeleton through Mahdi's bars next morning.

The Missing Link snorted. "I wish the Professor would bet out of this
hole," he said. "If that terrific creature discovers the truth, I am
lost."

Nickie had not left the cage all night, preferring to sleep in his skin
rather than risk a sudden descent on the part of the enemy.

"What'd yeh do it fer?" said the Skeleton; "a great lath-an'-plaster
she-emu like that, too."

"Not having anything else to do, Matthew," moaned the Missing Link. "I
always was tender with women."

"Well, yiv gotter look out, ol' man. If she nails yer, yer a gone link,
that's er cert."

"For two pins I'd retire from the profession," said Nickie. "It exposes a
man to too much temptation."

The lorn widow did not appear that morning. The afternoon passed, and
Mrs. Spink had not been heard from. There was a good crowd in at
half-past eight, and Professor Thunder was giving his instructive and
entertaining description of the life and habits of the Missing Link in
the dark jungles of Central Africa. The Link had recovered confidence
somewhat. He ventured to show himself at the front of the cage, he
capered and gibbered, and at that point where Thunder dwelt upon the
courage and fierceness of the man-monkey in fighting for his young,
Nickie jumped forward, clawing through the bars, and uttering
blood-curling growls.

At that moment his eye fell upon a face that thrust itself forward out of
the press; his gaze encountered the eager scrutiny of a grim, green eye,
behind glass. It was the eye of Widow Spink.

"It's him," cried the widow. She rushed for ward; she battered at the
Missing Link with her umbrella, and the terrified animal retreated to his
straw. "You villain!" screamed Mrs. Spink, "you double-dyed, lyin'
villain, I've got you!" She was reaching as far as possible through the
bars, prodding at the man-monkey, and the audience were gazing in stupid
surprise.

"Madam, madam, my dear madam!" expostulated the Professor, "you must not
irritate the animals."

He pulled her back from the cage.

"Don't tell me," cried the justly-indignant widow. "I know him I'd know
him out of a thousand, robber of the widow and the orphan that he is."

The Professor spoke to her soothingly.

"There, there, madam, do not excite yourself, you'll be all right in the
morning."

"Meanin' I'm drunk!" shrieked the widow, raising her gingham
threateningly. "I know what I'm talking about. He promised me marriage."

She made another lunge at the Missing Link.

"Yes, he did; he said we'd be married in a fortnight, the villain, and
I'll have the law on him."

"Most distressing hallucination," said the Professor, pressing Mrs. Spink
through the crowd. "Will nobody take charge of the poor lady?"

He pushed her towards the door, the crowd following, delighted with the
unexpected diversion, confident that Mrs. Spink was drunk or mad. The
widow retired, fighting, the people pressing her.

"I'll have the law on him," screamed Mrs. Spink. "I'll have a thousand
pounds damages for breach of promise. I'll teach him, deceivin' a lone
widder, the villain!"

Outside she enlarged upon her wrongs, telling the crowd of the infamous
conduct of these actors, who go about the country imposing upon innocence
and virtue. She went off, still flourishing her sturdy gamp, and
reiterating her determination to have the law on the infamous Missing
Link.

"That widow means business, Crips, my boy," said the Professor after the
show; "somethin's got to be done. She swears she'll see a lawyer, and she
will. Now look here, I can't have my Missing Link dragged into a law
suit. If you get sued for breach of promise, you're no good to me, the
game's up so far as missing links are concerned, and my show's reputation
gone. Is this to be the end of a long and honoured public career? What's
to be done?"

Madame Marve, Letitia, Matty Cann, Nickie, and even the educated pig sat
in council to consider ways and means of averting the pending
catastrophe, and Nickie bore the fierce rebukes showered upon him with
proper humbleness. On his sitting-room sofa she rested and sipped his Cyprus
wine; by and by arrived her sisters with grave faces; the carriage
was driven to Hampstead Heath for the soothing happiness of the
autumnal air and sunshine; after which the three sisters returned
to their father's house; the wedding-ring was regretfully taken
off; and the prayer arose in Mrs Browning's heart that if sorrow
or injury should ever follow upon what had happened that day for
either of the two, it might all fall upon her.

Browning did not again visit at 50 Wimpole Street; it was enough to
know that his wife was well, and kept all these things gladly,
tremblingly, in her heart. For himself he felt that come what might his
life had "borne flower and fruit."[39] On the Monday week which succeeded
the marriage the Barrett family were to move to the country house
that had been taken at Little Bookham.

On Saturday afternoon, a week having gone by since the wedding, Mrs
Browning and Wilson, left what had been her home. Flush was warned to
make no demonstration, and he behaved with admirable discretion.

It was "dreadful" to cause pain to her father by a voluntary act;
but another feeling sustained her:--"You _only_! As if one said _God
only_. And we shall have _Him_ beside, I pray of Him." At Hodgson's,
the stationer and bookseller's, they found Browning, and a little later
husband and wife, with the brave Wilson and the discreet Flush, were
speeding from Vauxhall to Southampton, in good time to catch the
boat for Havre.

A north wind blew them vehemently from the English coast. In the newspaper
announcements of the wedding the date was to be omitted, and Browning
rejected the suggestion that on this occasion, and with reference to the
great event of his life, he should be defined to the public as
"the author of _Paracelsus_."

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 35: _Letters of E.B.B._, i. 288.]
[Footnote 36: See _Letters of R.B. and E.B.B_., i. 281.]
[Footnote 37: E.B.B. to R.B., March 30, 1846.]

[Footnote 38: E.B.B. to R.B., Sept. 14, 1846.]
[Footnote 39: R.B. to E.B.B., Sept. 14, 1846.]

Chapter VI
Early Years in Italy

The letters from which this story has been drawn have from first
to last one burden; in them deep answers to deep; they happily are
of a nature to escape far from the pedantries of literary criticism.

It cannot be maintained that Browning quite equals his correspondent in
the discovery of rare and exquisite thoughts and feelings; or that
his felicity in giving them expression is as frequent as hers.

Even on matters of literature his comments are less original than hers,
less penetrating, less illuminating.

Her wit is the swifter and keener. When Browning writes to afford her
amusement, he sometimes appears to us, who are not greatly amused, a
little awkward and laborious. She flashes forth a metaphor which
embodies some mystery of feeling in an image entirely vital; he,
with a habit of mind of which he was conscious and which often
influences his poetry, fastens intensely on a single point and
proceeds to muffle this in circumstance, assured that it will be
all the more vividly apparent when the right instant arrives and
requires this; but meanwhile some staying-power is demanded from
the reader.

Neither correspondent has the art of etching a person or a scene
in a few decisive lines; the gift of Carlyle, the gift of Carlyle's
brilliant wife is not theirs, perhaps because acid is needed to
bite an etcher's plate.

And, indeed, many of the minor notabilities of 1845, whose names
appear in these letters, might hardly have repaid an etcher's
intensity of selective vision.

Among the groups of spirits who presented themselves to Dante there
were some wise enough not to expect that their names should be
remembered on earth; such shades may stand in a background.

It is, however, strange that Browning who created so many living men
and women should in his letters have struck out no swift indelible piece
of portraiture; even here his is the inferior touch. And yet throughout
the whole correspondence we cannot but be aware that his is the more
massive and the more complex nature; his intellect has hardier thews; his
passion has an energy which corresponds with its mass; his will
sustains his passion and projects it forward. And towards Miss Barrett his
strength is seen as gentleness, his energy as an inexhaustible patience
of hope.

When Browning and his wife reached Paris, Mrs Browning was worn out by
the excitement and fatigue. By a happy accident Mrs Jameson and her
niece were at hand, and when the first surprise, with kisses to both
fugitives, was over, she persuaded them to rest for a week where they
were, promising, if they consented, to be their companion and aider
until they arrived at Pisa.

Their "imprudence," in her eyes, was "the height of prudence"; "wild
poets or not" they were "wise people."

The week at Paris was given up to quietude; once they visited the
Louvre, but the hours passed for the most part indoors; it all
seemed strange and visionary--"Whether in the body or out of the
body," wrote Mrs Browning, "I cannot tell scarcely."

The eye of Schmitz was small and round, and seemed
to be filled with pink cobweb, his hair was in a state of tumult, and was
full of chips, suggesting that he had recently slept on the wood heap.
Schmitz had a fierce, red moustache, that looked as if it had been
trimmed on a block with an adze.

The publican blinked stupidly at the world-famous showman for a moment,
trying to pick him out from a number of unnatural curiosities careering
before him, and then he said, decisively: "Ged oud of mein 'ous'."

"My dear fellow," said the Professor, urbanely, "I suppose you will serve
me with some little refreshment?"

"Refreshmend?" muttered the landlord. "Refreshmend?" His intellect
struggled to grasp the situation. Suddenly it became luminous. "Nein!" he
yelled. "I vill nod you mid refreshmend serve! Nein! I keep him all for
meinseluf. Ged oud!"

"But, Mr. Schmitz," expostulated the Professor.

"Ged oud of mein 'ous'. I know vot you want, ain't id? You want to buy
mein liquer. Veil, I don'd sell some liquer to nopody. Der ain't
sufficiency for mieinseluf. Ged oud! Tam you, ged oud kvick!" Schmitz
caught up a bottle in quick rage, and dashed it at Professor Thunder.

The Professor pursued his investigations no further. The tent was
pitched, the museum was arranged for an afternoon performance, and the
unrivalled showman, to whose enterprise Rabbit owed this chance of
improving its mind and enlivening its leisure, took his stand outside,
and endeavoured to awaken the township to a sense of its opportunities.
For three-quarters of an hour he poured forth a stream of eloquence at
the top of his pitch. After the first quarter of an hour he was
appreciated by a tired dog, which drifted up, and barked at him in a
desultory way. Later, he was becoming discouraged when a tattered youth,
wearing a hat that nearly engulfed him, came and stared at him
open-mouthed, stupidly, silently, for twenty minutes. This youth was the
township idiot. Nobody else troubled to come out and see what all the
noise was about.

"We're got to shake up the township, Nickie," Thunder said.

"Well, go out and shake it, Professor--I'm tired."

"No, Nickie, you've got to do the shaking. See here, the place is dead. I
don't believe it ever heard of Professor Thunder and his world-famous
Missing Link; I don't think it has discovered that anything unusual has
happened along. You must escape from your cage to-night, and scare the
life half out of some of these miserable mummies, then I'll come along
and recapture you. That should excite some curiosity, and perhaps bring
in money to-morrow'."

Nickie yawned lazily. "Oh, all right," he said, getting back to his
straw; "but mind there are no guns. I've an objection to being hunted
with guns--it's too wearing."

That night a large, hairy animal of a species hither to unknown at
Rabbit, made its way along the deserted main street of the township. The
animal walked upright, like a huge monkey, its long hands swung below its
knees. Mahdi had not gone a hundred yards when a large, stout man lurched
out of the shadow of a tree and fell upon him.

The large, stout man smelt strongly of consumed drink. He clasped the
Missing Link to his breast for a moment, then swayed back, holding on
with one hand. In the other hand he flourished a bottle.

"Goot day, mein bruder; how are you?" he gurgled. Nickie growled his most
terrible growl, and the stranger made some little show of surprise. "Vot
is it der madder?" he said. "Blitzen, dot's a peaudiful winter overcoad
vot you year mit der summer. Come'n haff er drink." He held the bottle
towards Nickie the Kid. It was a bottle of square gin. All kinds of
bottles were fascinating to Nickie.

Mahdi faltered. Nickie was very partial to square gin, and although the
Missing Link had a proper sense of duty, the inner man was weak.

"Helup vourseluf, Sharlie," said Schmitz.

Nickie helped himself. He helped himself liberally. Schmitz fell on
Mahdi's neck, and embraced him freely. "Mein goot friend," he gurgled, "I
like you. You shplended fellow. Dot's so, sure. Come mit me, my 'ous' to,
und ye make a night mid it." He embraced Nickie again.

"All der same," he said, in a puzzled tone, "I don't know me vy you vear
dot hairy overcoad dose hot nides. Haff er drink."

The Missing Link, standing grimly outlined in the darkness, raised the
bottle in his two prehensile paws, and drank health to Schmitz.

"Goot man," said Schmitz, embracing him again. "Now con mit me to my
'ous' to, und we make the night." He grappled with Nickie, and the two
seesawed towards Schmitz's hotel. The place was in complete darkness; the
bar door was wide open.

Schmitz dragged Nickie through the bar, with much bumping and more
breaking of glass, into a back compartment, and there he fumbled for
matches, forgot his mission, and sang a German song very drearily,
stopping suddenly to say:

"Vere haf you gone mit yourseluf, mein goot friend? Vot is der madder mit
der lightness."

He fumbled again. Nickie was in no hurry, he had the gin bottle.

Schmitz found the matches, and lit a candle on the shelf. He turned
drunkenly towards Nickie, and beheld what must have been a strange and
mysterious sight to a commonplace Dutchman in his own home. Sitting on a
chair facing him, with the gin bottle raised to his lips, was a mighty
monkey--a great, red, hairy ape, as large as a man.

The publican scratched his head wonderingly.

"Mein gracious!" he said.

"Dot iss a sdrange ting dot haff happened mit you, Sharlie," he said, in
a wondering, small voice.

"Sharlie!" he called. "Sharlie!" The Missing Link gave no reply.

"Pless mein soul!" gasped the Dutchman.

Suddenly a gleam of intelligence shot through the publican's boosy gloom.
He pointed a finger straight at Nickie, lurched towards him, crossed the
room in a stagger, and drove his inquiring digit against the mysterious
visitor. The mysterious visitor was solid.

Schmitz was beaten.

"Sharlie," he said, "is it true dot you vos, or is it true dot you
aind't?"

Nickie offered him the bottle in a friendly way, and Schmitz took it and
drank. The draught seemed to abolish all problems.

"Now ye make dot night, Sharlie," said Schmitz. He staggered into the
bar, and returned with an armful of bottles--all full of liquor. With the
adroitness of an expert he knocked the head off a bottle of schnapps.
"Dot is for you, Sharlie," he explained. The Missing Link assumed
possession.

Schmitz knocked the head off another.

"Dot one for me iss," he said.

Then the night began. The Dutchman drank and sang and danced, and a
hundred times assured the Missing Link of his undying friendship. True,
he had occasional spasms of reawakened amazement, when he would gaze at
the man-monkey in stupid wonder, saying: "I don't understand me,
Sharlie," but Nickie's extremely human manner of disposing of gin seemed
to reassure him, and he would burst into song again.

In due course Nickie grew jovial, and lost all sense of his make-up and
his professional reputation, and he sang, too, and caper exuberantly
about Schmitz's kitchen, while Schmitz, reclining in a corner on the
floor, shook his fat sides with gargantuan roars of laughter. The sight
of this gigantic ape dancing a Highland Fling stirred the drunken
Dutchman to wildest merriment; he howled with delight.

"Goot, goot! Some more Sharlie!" he yelled. "Dance, dance. Mein Gott,
dot's der greadest sight I effer haff see me."

This was the strange and awful spectacle Mrs. Schmitz tumbled upon,
returning from a week's stay at Rattletrap. Her screams brought the
red-headed stable boy to the rescue.

Two minutes later, while Mrs. Schmitz was assuring one section of Rabbit
township that her poor, miserable husband had sold his soul to hell, and
was at that moment dancing fiendish dances with the devil himself in her
kitchen, a red-headed youth, almost beside himself with horror, was
stirring up the other section with the tale of Dutchy Schmitz howling mad
in the hotel, while a great, hairy, hideous jim-jam capered on the floor
before him.

Rabbit was stirred at last. Professor Thunder was made unpleasantly aware
of the fact when he discovered a crowd of patriots surrounding Schmitz's,
preparing to burn out the devils that possessed it, having peeped timidly
at the windows; and assured themselves of the unearthly nature of
Schmitz's guest.

The Missing Link, with Schmitz on his arm, came rolling from the back
door, roaring and brandishing a bottle. The crowd broke and fled before
them, and a minute later the bosom friends were rocking down the road
together, singing insanely.

How to recapture Nickie was the showman's real trouble now. He knew that
persuasion would be useless with Nickie in his present state, and
resolved to try force. He grappled with Nickie in the street, and Nickie,
now feeling like a king in his own right, and valiantly asserting his
majesty, resented this impudent interference, and fought with fine, royal
spirit. For a moment or two Dutchy failed to realise the situation, and
then, roaring like a bull, and swinging a bottle of stone gin, he went at
the Professor.

The bottle took Thunder in the back of the head. It ought to have killed
him, but it didn't--it merely stretched him on the road unconscious. When
he recovered he was on a couch in the hotel, with his head wrapped in a
tablecloth, and day was breaking. No body knew what had become of Dutchy
and the Missing Link, and the Professor returned to the tent, with a soul
seething bitterness. He found Nickie in his cage, sleeping soundly, and
alongside him on the straw lay the bulky form of Schmitz, the publican,
in whose hand was still clutched a bottle of stone gin. The Missing Link
had returned hospitality for hospitality, and side by side like brothers
dear the carousers slept.


CHAPTER XV.

HOBBS VERSUS MAHDI.

IT was shortly after noon, and the day was warm and still. No one was
stirring in Waddy. Professor Thunder had given up the idea that his
eloquence could conquer the general lassitude, and was snoring in the
tent of the Egyptian Mystic. Madame Marve was shopping in the township,
and Matty Cann, the Living Skeleton, had come down from his throne and
was curled up on a horse-rug. Ammonia, the orang-outang, sprawled on the
floor of his cage, and the other monkeys were chattering angrily.

Nickie sat with his back to the wall of his compartment, sweltering in
the hot garb of the Missing Link, drowsing and day-dreaming of beer. He
thought he was sitting in a sylvian glade, with an attendant nymph, where
a cascade splashed over crystal rocks, and the cascade was beer--all
beer.

"Ello there!" said a thick voice. Someone was shaking the bars of the
cage. "Get up and do some thin', blarst yer eyes! She shall read and
amend his manuscript poems.

To hear from her is better than to see anybody else. But when shall he see
her too?

So proceed from January to May the letters of Rudel and the still invisible
Lady of Wimpole Street. It was happy comradeship on her part, but on his
it was already love. His spirit had recognised, had touched, a spirit,
which included all that he most needed, and union with which would
be the most certain and substantial prize offered by life. There was
nothing fatuous in this inward assurance; it was the simplest and most
self-evidencing truth.

The word "mistrustful"--"do not see me as long as you are mistrustful
of"--with its implied appeal to her generous confidence, precipitated
the visit.

How could she be mistrustful? Of course he may come: but the wish to
do so was unwisely exorbitant. On the afternoon of May 20th, 1845,
Browning first set eyes on his future wife, a little figure, which
did not rise from the sofa, pale ringleted face, great eager,
wistfully pathetic eyes.

He believed that she was suffering from some incurable disease of the
spine, and that whatever remained to her of life must be spent in
this prostrate manner of an invalid.

A movement of what can only be imperfectly described as pity entered into
his feeling for her: it was less pity than the joy of believing that
he could confer as well as receive. But his first thought on leaving was
only the fear that he might have stayed too long or might have
spoken too loud.

The visit was on Tuesday. On Thursday, Browning wrote the only letter
of the correspondence which has been destroyed, one which overflowed
with gratitude, and was immediately and rightly interpreted by the
receiver as tending towards an offer, implied here, but not expressed,
of marriage.

It was read in pain and agitation; her heart indeed, but not her will,
was shaken; and, after a sleepless night, she wrote words effective
to bar--as she believed--all further advance in a direction fatal to his
happiness.

The intemperate things he had said must be wholly forgotten between
them; or else she will not see him again; friends, comrades in the life
of the intellect they might continue to be.

For once and once only Browning lied to Miss Barrett, and he lied a
little awkwardly; his letter was only one of too boisterous
gratitude; his punishment--that of one infinitely her inferior--was
undeserved; let her return to him the offending letter.

Returned accordingly it was, and immediately destroyed by the writer. In
happier days, Miss Barrett hoped to recover what then would have
been added to a hoard which she treasured; but, Browning could not preserve
the words which she had condemned.

Wise guardian-angels smile at each other, gently and graciously,
when a lover is commanded to withdraw and to reappear in the character
of a friend.

An incoming tide may seem for a while to pause; but by and by we look
and the rock is covered. Browning very dutifully submitted and became a
literary counsellor and comrade. The first stadium in the progress of
his fortunes opened in January and closed before the end of May;
the second closed at the end of August.

To a friend Miss Barrett, assured that he never could be more, might
well be generous; visits were permitted, and it was left to Browning to
fix the days; the postal shuttle threw swift and swifter threads
between New Cross, Hatcham, and 50 Wimpole Street.

The verse of Tennyson, the novels of George Sand were discussed;
her translations from the Greek were considered; his manuscript
poems were left for her corrections; but transcription must not
weary him into headaches; she would herself by and by act as an
amanuensis.

Each of the correspondents could not rest happy until the other had been
proved to be in every intellectual and moral quality the superior.

Browning's praise could not be withheld; it seemed to his friend--and
she wrote always with crystalline sincerity--to be an illusion which
humbled her. Glad memories of Italy, sad memories of England and the
invalid life were exchanged; there is nothing that she can teach him--she
declares--except grief.

And yet to him the day of his visit is his light through the dark week.
He is like an Eastern Jew who creeps through alleys in the meanest garb,
destitute to all wayfarers' eyes, who yet possesses a hidden palace-hall
of marble and gold.

Even in matters ecclesiastical, the footsteps of the two friends had moved
with one consent; each of them preferred a chapel to a church; each was
Puritan in a love of simplicity in the things of religion; each disowned
the Puritan narrowness, and the grey aridity of certain schools of dissent.
On June 14--with the warranty of her published poem which had told
of flowers sent in a letter--Browning encloses in his envelope a
yellow rose; and again and again summer flowers arrive bringing
colour and sweetness into the dim city room.

Once Miss Barrett can report that she has been out of doors, and
with no fainting-fit, yet unable to venture in the carriage as far
as the Park; still her bodily strength is no better than that of a
tired bird; she is moreover, years older than her friend (the
difference was in fact that between thirty-nine and thirty-three);
and the thunder of a July storm has shaken her nerves.

There is some thought of her seeking health as far off as Malta or
even Alexandria; but her father will jestingly have it that there
is nothing wrong with her except "obstinacy and dry toast."

Thus cordially, gladly, sadly, and always with quick leapings of the
indomitable flame of the spirit, these letters of friend to friend run
on during the midsummer days. Browning was willing and happy to wait;
a confidence possessed him that in the end he would be known fully
and aright.

On August 25th came a great outpouring of feeling from Miss Barrett.
She took her friend so far into her confidence as to speak plainly of
the household difficulties caused by her father's autocratic temper.

The conversation was immediately followed by a letter in which she
endeavoured to soften or qualify the impression her words had given,
and her heart, now astir and craving sympathy, led her on to write of her
most sorrowful and sacred memories--those connected with her brother's
death.

Browning was deeply moved, most grateful for her trust in him, but
she had forbidden him to notice the record of her grief.

He longed to return confidence with confidence, to tell what was urgent
in his heart.

But the bar of three months since had not been removed, and he hesitated
to speak.

His two days' silence was unintelligible to his friend and caused her
inexpressible anxiety.

Could any words of hers have displeased him? Or was he seriously
unwell? She wrote on August 30th a little letter asking "the alms of just
one line" to relieve her fears.

When snow-wreaths are loosened, a breath will bring down the avalanche.
It was impossible to receive this appeal and not to declare briefly,
decisively, his unqualified trust in her, his entire devotion, his
assured knowledge of what would constitute his supreme happiness.

Miss Barrett's reply is perfect in its disinterested safe-guarding of his
freedom and his future good as she conceived it. She is deeply grateful,
but she cannot allow him to empty his water-gourds into the sand. What
could she give that it would not be ungenerous to give?

Yet his part has not been altogether the harder of the two. The subject
must be left. Such subjects, however, could not be left until the facts
were ascertained.

Browning would not urge her a step beyond her actual feelings, but he must
know whether her refusal was based solely on her view of his
supposed interests.

And with the true delicacy of frankness she admits that even the sense of
her own unworthiness is not the insuperable obstacle.

No--but is she not a confirmed invalid? She thought that she had done
living when he came and sought her out.

If he would be wise, all these thoughts of her must be abandoned.
Such an answer brought a great calm to Browning's heart; he did
not desire to press her further; let things rest; it is for her to
judge; if what she regards as an obstacle should be removed, she
will certainly then act in his best interests; to himself this
matter of health creates no difficulty; to sit by her for an hour
a day, to write out what was in him for the world, and so to save
his soul, would be to attain his ideal in life.

What woman would not be moved to the inmost depths by such words?

She insists that his noble extravagances must in no wise bind him; but
all the bitternesses of life have been taken away from her;
henceforth she is his for everything except to do him harm; the
future rests with God and with him.

And amid the letters containing these grave sentences, so full of
fate, first appears a reference to the pet name of her childhood--the
"Ba" which is all that here serves, like Swift's "little language,"
to indulge a foolish tenderness; and the translator of _Prometheus_
is able to put Greek characters to their most delightful use in her
"[Greek: o philtate]."

In love-poetry of the Middle Age the allegorical personage named
"Danger" plays a considerable part, and it is to be feared that
Danger too often signified a husband.

In Wimpole Street that alarming personage always meant a father. Edward
Moulton Barrett was a man of integrity in business, of fortitude in
adversity, of a certain stern piety, and from the superior position
of a domestic autocrat he could even indulge himself in occasional
fiats of affection.

We need not question that there were springs of water in the rock, and in
earlier days they had flowed freely. But now if at night he visited his
ailing daughter's room for a few minutes and prayed with her and
for her, it meant that on such an occasion she was not too criminal to
merit the pious intercession. If he called her "puss," it meant that she
had not recently been an undutiful child of thirty-nine or forty years
old. A circus-trainer probably rewards his educated dogs and horses
with like amiable familiarities, and he is probably regarded by his
troupe with affection mingled with awe.

Mr Barrett had been appointed circus-trainer by the divine authority of
parentage.

No one visited 50 Wimpole Street, where there were grown-up sons as well
as daughters, without special permission from the lord of the castle;
he authorised the visits of Mr Browning, the poet, being fondly assured
that Mr Browning's intentions were not those of a burglar, or--worse--an
amorous knight-errant.

If any daughter of his conceived the possibility of transferring her prime
love and loyalty from himself to another, she was even as Aholah and
Aholibah who doted upon the Assyrians, captains, and rulers clothed
most gorgeously, all of them desirable young men. "If a
prince of Eldorado" said Elizabeth Barrett to her sister Arabel, "should
come with a pedigree of lineal descent from some signory in the moon in
one hand, and a ticket of good behaviour from the nearest Independent
chapel in the other--" "Why, even then," interrupted Arabel, "it
would not _do_" One admirable trait, however, Mr Moulton Barrett
did possess--he was nearly always away from home till six o'clock.

The design that Miss Barrett should winter abroad was still under consideration,
but the place now fixed upon was Pisa. Suddenly, in mid-September, she
finds herself obliged to announce that "it is all over with Pisa." Her
father had vetoed the undutiful project, and had ceased to pay her
his evening visits; only in his separate and private orisons were
all her sins remembered.

To admit the fact that he did not love her enough to give her a chance of
recovery was bitter, yet it could not be denied.

Her life was now a thing of value to herself, for it was precious
to another.

She beat against the bars of her cage; planned a rebellious flight;
made inquiries respecting ships and berths; but she could not travel
alone; and she would not subject either of her sisters to the heavy
displeasure of the ruler of the house.

Robert Browning held strong opinions on the duty of resisting evil,
and if evil assume the guise of parental authority it is none the
_less_--he believed--to be resisted.

To submit to the will of another is often easy; to act on one's own best
judgment is hard; our faculties were given us to put to use; to be passively
obedient is really to evade probation--so with almost excessive
emphasis Browning set forth a cardinal article of his creed; but
Elizabeth Barrett was not, like him, "ever a fighter," and, after
all, London in 1845 was not bleak and grey as it had been a year
previously--"for reasons," to adopt a reiterated word of the
correspondence, "for reasons."

On two later occasions Browning sang the same battle-hymn against the
enemies of God and with a little too much vehemence--not to say
truculence--as is the way with earnest believers.

His gentler correspondent could not tolerate the thought of duelling, and
she disapproved of punishment by death.

Browning argues that for one who values the good opinion of society--not
for himself--that good opinion is a possession which may, like
other possessions, be defended at the risk of a man's life, and as
for capital punishment, is not evil to be suppressed at any price?

Is not a miscreant to be expelled out of God's world? The difference of
opinion was the first that had arisen between the friends, and
Browning's words carried with them a certain sense of pain in the
thought that they could in any thing stand apart.

Happily the theoretical fire-eater had faith superior to his own
arguments;--faith in a woman's insight as finer than his own;--and he is
let off with a gratified rebuke for preternatural submissiveness
and for arraying her in pontifical garments of authority which hang
loose upon so small a figure.

The other application of his doctrine of resisting evil was even more
trying to her feelings and the preacher was instant certainly out
of season.

Not the least important personage in the Wimpole Street house was Miss
Barrett's devoted companion Flush.

Loyal and loving to his mistress Flushie always was; yet to his lot
some canine errors fell; he eyed a visitor's umbrella with suspicion;
he resented perhaps the presence of a rival; he did not behave nicely
to a poet who had not written verses in his honour; for which he was
duly rebuked by his mistress--the punishment was not capital--and
was propitiated with bags of cakes by the intruder.

When the day for their flight drew near Miss Barrett proposed
somewhat timidly that her maid Wilson should accompany her to Italy,
but she was gratefully confident that Flush could not be left behind.

Just at this anxious moment a dreadful thing befell; a gang of
dog-stealers, presided over by the arch-fiend Taylor, bore Flushie
away into the horror of some obscure and vulgar London alley.

He was a difficult dog to capture and his ransom must be in proportion to
his resistance. There was a terrible tradition of a lady who
had haggled about the sum demanded and had received her dog's head in
a parcel. Miss Barrett was eager to part with her six guineas and rescue
her faithful companion from misery.

Was this an occasion for preaching from ethical heights the sin of
making a composition with evil-doers?

Yet Browning, still "a fighter" and armed with desperate logic, must needs
declaim vehemently against the iniquity of such a bargain. It is something
to rejoice at that he was dexterously worsted in argument, being compelled
to admit that if Italian banditti were to carry off his "Ba," he would
pay down every farthing he might have in the world to recover her,
and this before he entered on that chase of fifty years which was
not to terminate until he had shot down with his own hand the
receiver of the infamous bribe.

The journey of Miss Barrett to Pisa having been for the present
abandoned, friendship, now acknowledged to be more than friendship,
resumed its accustomed ways.

Visits, it was agreed, were not to be too frequent--three in each
fortnight might prudently be ventured; but Wednesday might have to
be exchanged for Thursday or Saturday for Monday, if on the first
elected day Miss Mitford--dear and generous friend--threatened to
come with her talk, talk, talk, or Mrs Jameson with her drawings
and art-criticism, or some unknown lion-huntress who had thrown her
toils, or kindly Mr Kenyon, who knew of Browning's visits, and who
when he called would peer through his all-scrutinising spectacles
with an air of excessive penetration or too extreme unconsciousness.

And there were times--later on--when an avalanche of aunts and uncles
would precipitate itself on Wimpole Street--perspicacious aunts and
amiable uncles who were wished as far off as Seringapatam, and who
wrung from an impatient niece--to whom indeed they were dear--the
cry "The barbarians are upon us."

Miss Barrett's sisters, the gentle Henrietta, who preferred a waltz to
the best sermon of an Independent minister, and the more serious Arabel,
who preferred the sermon of an Independent minister to the best waltz,
were informed of the actual state of affairs. They were trustworthy and
sympathetic; Henrietta had special reasons of her own for sympathy;
Captain Surtees Cook, who afterwards became her husband, might be
discussing affairs with her in the drawing-room at the same time
that Mr Browning the poet--"the man of the pomegranates" as he was
named by Mr Barrett--held converse on literature with Elizabeth in
the upper chamber.

The household was honeycombed with treasons.

For the humours of superficial situations and passing incidents
Miss Barrett had a lively sense, and she found some relief in playing
with them; but with a nature essentially truthful like hers the necessity
of concealment was a cause of distress. The position was no less
painful to Browning, and in the end it became intolerable. Yet while there
were obstructions and winding ways in the shallows, in the depths
were flawless truth and inviolable love. What sentimental persons
fancy and grow effusive over was here the simplest and yet always
a miraculous reality--"He of the heavens and earth brought us
together so wonderfully, holding two souls in his hand

."[37] In the most illuminating words of each correspondent no merely
private, or peculiar feeling is expressed; it is the common wave of human
passion, the common love of man and woman, that here leaps from the depths
to the height, and over which the iris of beauty ever and anon
appears with--it is true--an unusual intensity.

And so in reading the letters we have no sense of prying into secrets; there
are no secrets to be discovered; what is most intimate is most common;
only here what is most common rises up to its highest point of
attainment.

"I never thought of being happy through you or by you or in you even, your
good was all my idea of good, and _is_" "Let me be too near to be seen....
Once I used to be more uneasy, and to think that I ought to
_make_ you see me. But Love is better than sight." "I love your love too
much. And _that_ is the worst fault, my beloved, I can ever find in my
love of _you_."

These are sentences that tell of what can be no private possession,
being as liberal and free as our light and air.

And if the shadow of a cloud appears--appears and passes away--it is a
shadow that has floated over many other hearts beside that of the
writer: "How dreadfully natural it would be to me, seem to me, if
you _did_ leave off loving me!

How it would be like the sun's setting ... and no more wonder. Only, more
darkness." The old exchange of tokens, the old symbolisms--a lock of
hair, a ring, a picture, a child's penholder--are good enough for
these lovers, as they had been for others before them.

What is diffused through many of the letters is gathered up and is delivered
from the alloy of superficial circumstance in the "Sonnets from the
Portuguese." in reading which we are in the presence of womanhood--womanhood
delivered from death by love and from darkness by; light--as much
as in that of an individual woman.

And the disclosure in poems and in letters being without reserve affects
us as no disclosure, but simply as an adequate expression of the
truth universal.

One obstacle to the prospective marriage was steadily diminishing in
magnitude; Miss Barrett, with a new joy in life, new hopes, new interests,
gained in health and strength from month to month. The winter of
1845-46 was unusually mild. In January one day she walked--walked, and
was not carried--downstairs to the drawing-room.

Spring came early that year; in the first week of February lilacs and
hawthorn were in bud, elders in leaf, thrushes and white-throats
in full song.

In April Miss Barrett gave pledges of her confidence in the future by
buying a bonnet; a little like a Quaker's, it seemed to her, but the
learned pronounced it fashionable.

Early in May, that bonnet, with its owner and Arabel and Flush, appeared
in Regent's Park, while sunshine was filtering through the leaves.

Wouldn't
touch him with er forty-foot pole."

"Well, he as good as says you did."

Bill grinned. "You can't send a bloke up on th' say so of a Missin'
Link," he said. "You can't put a monkey in the witness box t' swear a
man's character away."

"I don't know," said the Professor. "That's a delicate point of law, but
we may as well have a word with the constable about it."

The shearers didn't stay to take part in the consultation with the
constable--Professor Thunder had not expected them to. "They lit out in a
great hurry," he explained to the Missing Link at lunch time. "With a bit
of engineering I might have shaken a few pounds out of them in the way of
compensation. I was too hasty. Now, we'll have to leave their punishment
in the hands of heaven, and there is no money in that."

"Heaven has punished them already, Professor," said the Missing Link,
with a wide, simian smile.

"How that?"

Nickie's smile deepened. "There was eleven pounds in the pocket of the
trousers I borrowed to come home in," he said.


CHAPTER XVII.

A NARROW ESCAPE.

THUNDER'S Museum of Marvels was showing at Wildbee, and doing only
moderately, much to the Professor's disgust.

Nickie the Kid was hurt, too, at the scant attendance.

He had been acknowledged by experts to be the best Link ever exhibited in
Australia, and Links included all sorts of hairy freaks, wild men of the
woods, and shaggy eccentrics from Borneo; but Nicholas Crips could not
rest satisfied as a mere interpreter of monkey character.

Nickie reached out and developed, and his newest device was a dinner in
the cage, an actual dinner, in which Madame Marve, bewitchingly dressed
in a costume that was a cross between the uniform of a hospital nurse and
the garb of a French peasant girl, acted as waitress, and the Missing
Link figured as the diner. Actual edibles were used, and a "practicable"
bottle of beer.

This turn gave the Living Skeleton great concern. "I wish yer wouldn't do
it, Nickie," said Matty, from his pedestal next the cage of the Missing
Link. "Et's awful tryin' to a pore bloke what ain't 'ad nothin' fer
dinner but a dry biscuit t' 'ave 't sit 'ere, patient as an owl, while
you're hoggin' into ther grub, an' pourin' fresh beer into yersell
regardless iv expense."

"Get out," replied the Missing Link. "Call yourself an artist. Every pro.
has to suffer for his art. You have to suffer for yours, going short in
your eating so as to keep in proper condition. You wouldn't have a fellow
artist sacrifice his chance of becoming celebrated just because it isn't
quite pleasant to you to be a spectator at the banquet?"

"Art he blowed!" said the Living Skeleton. "Give we a yard o' tripe an' a
scoopful iv mashed potatoos."

"You aren't cut out for a public career. Matty you ought to abandon
Living Skeletons and get a good eating part."

"Wish t' 'eaven I could, but there's ther missus an' ther kids t' think
of."

"Well, you can turn your head away when the banquet scene's on."

"What if I do; can't I smell it?"

There was no escape--poor Matty Cann had to be sacrificed to the
requirements of art.

Professor Thunder spread himself to make the new act a success; he
procured a clean tablecloth, and napkin, a crush hat and black opera coat
(both second-hand) were purchased for the Missing Link. A table, a chair,
crockery, edibles, a bottle of beer, a walking stick, and an eyeglass
were the rest of the properties.

When the Professor had explained to his patrons his gallant capture of
the only living Missing Link in the jungles of Darkest Africa, and had
put Mahdi through his paces, to the great amazement of the bucolic
audience, he said:

"And now, ladies and gents. I have the pleasure of introducing to your
notice an entire change of programme, exhihiting Mahdi, the Missing Link,
in his wonderful act, called 'Civilisation.' You have, seen, ladies and
gents, this here astonishing animal showing the natural qualities of the
brute creation; you will now be privileged to see that side of his nature
which approaches more nearly to humanity. This act, I may tell you,
ladies and gents, though a miracle of training, would not have been
possible if wasn't that the Missing Link has a good deal of human nature
in his composition."

After this the opera cloak was handed in to the Missing Link, and he put
it on with awkward, monkey movements; he donned the crush hat, put the
eyeglass in his eye, and with the walking' stick promenaded the cage with
some uncouth affectations of humanity. Meanwhile, Madame Marve had
carried the small table into the cage. She spread a cloth, put on a few
articles, and offered Mahdi a chair.

The Missing Link sat down, took off his hat, and closed it. Then he
examined the bill of fare, and pointed to an item. While Madame was
fulfilling the order Mahdi lounged in his chair, playing with the
serviette, which he took from the ring, and spread on his lap.

After this Nickie went through the process of ordering and eating a
dinner, the aim being to do the thing not too humanly, but as a trained
animal might do it, throwing in a good deal of coarse humour, at which
the audience roared.

The turn was a success, the spectators applauded vociferously.

"Ladies and gents. I thank you," said the Professor, bowing. "You have
witnessed a triumph of teaching and training over brute animal nature,
and I hope that when you go out you'll speak well of a show that has been
in some measure the victim of a hireling press here in Wildbee."

"A marvellous performance, indeed," said a thin, shabby, sandy man,
coming forward with a notebook. "Almost miraculous."

"True for you, sir." said the Professor eyeing the man suspiciously.

"Perhaps you can tell me. Professor Thunder, what branch of the Simian
family this--this creature of yours belongs?"

"Well," said the Professor, "he is said to be most closely connected with
the gorillas."

"Nonsense, man! Gorilla, rubbish! Look at that pelvis, sir, look at those
arms. That's no more a gorilla than I am."

"May I ask to whom I have the honour of speaking?" asked the Professor,
in his coldly polite manner--his most superior professional attitude.

"My name is Andrew McKnight, if that's any good to you. If that is a
gorilla, sir, where are his vertebral processes, tell me that? And how
comes it that his legs are almost as long as those of man?"

The Missing Link, who had doffed his airs of civilisation, and was now
crouched in the straw, began snarling at this. It seemed almost as if Mr.
McKnight's criticism were making the poor beast angry.

"You must remember, sir, that this animal is not of any known species,"
said Professor Thunder, who had a large collection of stock phrases for
such discussions. "He is in a manner a creature apart."

"I should say so. Would you permit me to take cerebral measurements of
your so-called Missing Link? I am interested in this matter, having
opposed the Darwinian hypothesis for many years."

Here Mahdi's snarling became diabolical, and he leaped about in a
terrifying way.

"Certainly," said the Professor, "Certainly, Mahdi is always at the
service of science. But I warn you he is apt to be treacherous with
strangers. He almost tore the arm off Professor Fitzpoof, of Dresden, and
he nearly disembowelled a doctor in Dublin in 1895."

"Oh," said the gentleman with the notebook, doubtingly, "in that case I
had better not, perhaps."

Mr. McKnight did not go away for some time. He lingered, watching Mahdi
with great curiosity. He came back in the evening, too, and hung about
the museum for hours. The Professor observed him with growing resentment.
He suspected the intentions of the sandy man, and he was not wrong.

Next day, shortly after the show opened, McKnight came again, with the
same notebook and the same suspicious air. He brought five men with him,
all solid men in Wildbee, one of them the local constable. This party
assembled near the cage of the Missing Link, and listened carefully while
the Professor reeled off the familiar story of the taking of Mahdi. They
witnessed the stirring and entertaining dinner, and when the Professor
had finished, and Mahdi had resumed his conch in the straw, McKnight
stepped forward.

"And do you expect us to believe all that rubbish, Professor?" he said.

"I do," said Professor Thunder, with dignity, "but I don't care if you
don't."

"Well, we don't, sir, and what's more, we know you to be an impostor--a
rank impostor--and as editor of the Wildbee 'Guardian,' it is my duty to
expose you and your shameless fraud upon the public of this town and
district."

At this the Missing Link came out of his straw, growling, and springing
to the perch hung by one hand, with his legs drawn up in a very
monkey-like attitude.

"What the deuce do you mean?" thundered the Professor, manfully.

"I mean this," said McKnight, addressing the crowd "you have been
victimised. That creature is no monkey. It is a human being of some
kind."

Nickie the Kid felt his heart sink, but he made a big bid for popularity.
He capered about the cage and thrusting his face through the bars
jabbered excitedly.

"You're talking rubbish, man," cried the Professor.

"Am I?" retorted McKnight. "Then perhaps you will have the audacity to
tell us you have a monkey that can talk? Last night I crept under your
tent at the back there when there were no people in the show, and I heard
your absurd Missing Link talking, and what's more, he was teaching a
magpie to talk."

The Missing Link here made a fierce jump at Ammonia, who happened to be
clinging to the dividing bars, caught him, and clawed viciously. Ammonia
clawed back, and they fought a yowling battle that went a long way
towards modifying the impression created by McKnight's remarks.

The Professor was consternated for a moment, but the diversion Nickie had
created gave him a chance to collect his wits and presently he began to
laugh. He laughed uproariously. He clapped the Living Skeleton gaily on
the back. "Laugh, you idiot!" he hissed, under his breath. The Living
Skeleton laughed, and Madame Marve joined in the seeming merriment. She
did not know why, but it seemed advisable.

"Well sir," snorted McKnight, "you've finished that idiotic cackle,
perhaps you will explain how a monkey comes to be acquainted with the
English language."

"Certainly," said the Professor, cordially, "I might prefer to kick you
off the premises, but I will explain. Mahdi!" he called imperiously.
"Forward, Sir."

The Missing Link turned from his argument with Ammonia, and lurched to
the bars.

"I have not been able to teach my Missing Link to talk, though I've tried
hard. He can do almost anything else, but not that. However, I dare say
we can get him to address this intelligent audience. Mahdi, you see this
nice gentleman here." Professor Thunder pointed to McKnight, "What do you
think of him?"

"I think he is an ass!" said the Missing Link, with emphasis.

At this there was a yell of delight from the crowd, and even McKnight and
his party were astonished.

"There," cried McKnight, "what did I tell you? What does that prove?"

"You hear, Mahdi?" said the Professor; "the gentleman wants to know what
that proves?"

"It proves I know an ass when I see one, answered the Missing Link.

"You daylight robber! You unblushing fraud!" yelled McKnight.

"Stay," cried the Professor, with dignity. "Is it possible, sir, you have
never heard of the art of ventriloquism? I am a ventriloquist. The voice
you heard was my voice thrown into the mouth of the Missing Link. In this
way we are teaching a magpie to speak to the man-monkey as a new feature
of my marvellous entertainment. As to your libellous accusations, sir,
you will probably hear further on that point from my solicitor, and now
good-day."

"Be me sowl, this bates cock-fightin', McKnight," said the constable.
"Th' monkey's right, Mack. Sure, it's an ass yiv made iv yersilf this
day."

When McKnight and his party had gone, and the museum was empty of
patrons, the Professor mopped his brow, and drew a great breath.

"It's lucky we were prepared for that emergency," he said.

"I dunno," said the man-monkey; "why shouldn't a Missing Link talk,
anyhow?"

"Look here, Nickie, you're wantin' to be too talented," said the
Professor. "Your overweening ambition will ruin everything. Why, bless my
soul, you be wanting to shave clean and have a vote presently."


CHAPTER XVIII.

AN ADVENTURE AT 'TWEEN BRIDGES.

"BONY, my friend, I am weary of this," said the Missing Link.

The Living Skeleton, who had been drowsing on his chair, beat the flies
off and groaned.

"So'm I." he replied, "but what's a cove t' do?"

"Sneak my key out of the Professor's tent, and let's go and have a drop
of something."

"It ain't t' be thought of, Nickie," said Matty Cann, "where'd my livin'
be? The Professor ud give me the run, an' there's the missus an' the
kids."

"No fear, he can't pick up Living Skeletons at every Street corner.
Living Skeletons are rarer than you think. Why, a man of your physique
could get a Living Skeleton billet almost anywhere. What you want is a
little more impudence and self-respect Matty. An artist like you ought to
be able to make his own terms, and not be tied up like a calculating dog
or a two-headed calf."

"D'yeh think so?" said Matty, eagerly.

"Of course I do. Now, you just pinch the key of my cage. We'll trot out
and have a drink. No one will be a penny the wiser."

It was early in the afternoon of a midsummer day. Professor Thunder's
Museum of Marvels was on show at 'Tween Bridges. The show was open for
any casual sixpence but business in agricultural centres is dead at this
hour, and the Professor and his wile slept in the tent of the Egyptian
Mystic, and Miss Letitia, who was doorkeeper at the outer tent, overcome
by the heat and burden of the day dreamed of that splendid time when she
was to be acclaimed queen of the bare-back riders of all nations and
generations.

Nickie thirst had been nagging at him for two hours past. He always
contended that the Missing Link's skin was provocative of a great
drought. He pleaded with Matty, the bone man, appealing artfully to his
professional pride, for Bonypart loved to feel in exalted moments that
his position as the living skeleton was not insignificant after all.

"We can slip on overcoats, trot over to the Bridge Inn, have a drink, and
return before the Professor wakes." whispered Nickie.

"I couldn't trust meself near th' counter-lunch. Nickie. I couldn't," Mat
replied.

But in the end the Missing Link had his way. Bonypart pulled on trousers
and coat over his tawdry tights, Nickie turned back the ingenious
head-piece and mask of Mahdi, the man-monkey, so that it hung between his
shoulders, donned an overcoat and a pair of the Professor's knee boots,
and the two slipped under the tent, and made for Peter's Bridge Inn, on
the outskirts of a dusty township.

An hour later the Missing Link and the Living Skeleton were sitting under
the pile bridge a mile above the township, with a bottle of whisky
between them. Bonypart was eating bread and cheese with an avidity which
demonstrated the abandonment of all professional instincts. Nicholas
Crips was drinking whisky slightly diluted with creek water. His drinking
cup was a rusty sardine tin.

Two hours later the Living Skeleton and Mahdi, the man-monkey, snored
side by side in the shade of the bridge, the creek rippled at their feet,
the sun blazed on the bushland on the left and right, and the whisky
bottle stood between them.

Meanwhile, Professor Thunder's Museum of Marvels was decorated with a
placard, reading:

"Closed on account of illness in the family."

Professor Thunder himself was racing about the township and through the
surrounding scrub, seeking his missing exhibits, fearing the worst, and
promising himself the satisfaction of a terrible vengeance when he laid
hands on the recreant pair. He knew that Nickie had gone off in his skin
as the Missing Link, and realised the danger of a possible exposure. To
communicate his loss to the people of 'Tween Bridge would practically
mean giving the game away. At the inn he had been given a description of
the two strangers who had refreshed themselves with three long beers, and
then bought a bottle of whisky and certain edibles, and taken the road to
One Tree Hill. Thunder recognised the description, and his language
shocked Peters, the publican, who had once been a sinner and the champion
bullock driver of the Western District.

"Bread and cheese!" groaned the Professor, as he thrashed about in the
scrub. "That Living Skeleton 'll be as fat as a pig."

At about ten o'clock that night Dan Reynolds, riding from One Tree Hill
to 'Tween Bridges, and thinking of Annie, the Cockie's daughter, whom he
had left at the slip-rails, was amazed at a terrible apparition that
arose before him on the moon-lit road. It was a strange, shaggy creature,
half monkey half-man, covered from the top of his head to the knees in
thick, crisp, tufted hair.

Dan's horse snorted and, came back on his haunches, remaining so for an
appreciable space of time, sitting up, glaring at the curious monster
with dilated eyes and inflated nostrils, and Dan clung to the nag's neck
and glared too, even more astonished than his horse.

Never had Dan Reynolds beheld such an animal, never had he heard of its
like, the horror of it out did all the fabled bunyips and Tantanoola
tigers he had ever dreamed of. It was loathsome in its ugliness, capering
there in the dust, brandishing a whisky bottle in the air, and uttering
quaint, half-human yells and strangest feature of all, Reynolds noticed
that it wore high, piratical hoots, coming well above the knee.

Dan uttered a yell of mortal fear, Dan's horse gave a snort of terror,
and bounding forward bolted at top speed down the track, rattled over the
bridge, and dashed into Peter's yard, tearing down a gate and upsetting a
water-butt in his rash flight, and Dan clung to his neck all the way, to
be brushed off when the terrified steed climbed into the stable over half
the door.

The racket brought rush of men from Peter's bar. They gathered Dan
Reynolds out of the garbage, and carried him into the kitchen. After a
long beer Dan was able to describe the bunyip he had seen in the
moonlight on the One Tree Road.

Costello said it was a true jim-jam; he knew the breed well. He asked to
be put on to the brand of whisky Reynolds had been drinking.

"Jim-jam, be jiggered!" cried Reynolds. "By ripes, I ought t' kno a
jim-jam when I see one, I've met plenty. Tell yeh, I'm ez sober ez a
turtle, an' I seen bin with me own naked eyes, not three yards off,
jumpin' round on th' road, howlin' somthin' awful an' shakin' a bottle in
the air."

Peters thought it might be a bunyip. He had heard of a bunyip in Pig
Creek.

It is happy when praise in departing is justified, and this was the
case with a collection of poems which to some readers seemed like a
revival of the poetry of its author's best years of early and mid
manhood.

_Asolando_ is, however, in the main distinctly an autumn gathering, a
handful of flowers and fruit belonging to the Indian summer of his
genius. The Prologue is a confession, like that of Wordsworth's great Ode,
that a glory has passed away from the earth. When first he set eyes on
Asolo, some fifty years previously, the splendour of Italian
landscape seemed that of
Terror with beauty, like the Bush Burning yet unconsumed
Now, while the beauty remains, the flame is extinct--"the Bush is
bare."

Browning finds his consolation in the belief that he has come nearer to the
realities of earth by discarding fancies, and that his wonder and
awe are more wisely directed towards the transcendent God than
towards His creatures.

But in truth what the mind confers is a fact and no fancy; the loss of
what Browning calls the "soul's iris-bow" is the loss of a substantial,
a divine possession.

The _Epilogue_ has in it a certain energy, but the thews are those of
an old athlete, and through the energy we are conscious of the strain.
The speaker pitches his voice high, as if it could not otherwise be
heard at a distance.

The _Reverie_, a speculation on the time when Power will show itself
fully and therefore be known as love, has some of that vigorous
intellectual garrulity which had grown on Browning during the years
when unhappily for his poetry he came to be regarded chiefly as a prophet
and a sage.
An old man rightly values the truths which experience has made real for
him; he repeats them again and again, for they constitute the best
gift he can offer to his disciples; but his utterances are not
always directly inspired; they are sometimes faintly echoed from
an earlier inspiration.

In the _Reverie_, while accepting our limitations of knowledge, which
he can term ignorance in its contrast with the vast unknown, Browning
discovers in the moral consciousness of man a prophecy of the
ultimate triumph of good over what we think of as evil, a prophecy
of the final reconciliation of love with power.

And among the laws of life is not merely submission but aspiration:

Life is--to wake not sleep, Rise and not rest, but press From earth's
level where blindly creep Things perfected, more or less, To the heaven's
height, far and steep, Where amid what strifes and storms May wait the
adventurous quest, Power is love.

The voice of the poet of _Paracelsus_ and of _Rabbi Ben Ezra_ is
still audible in this latest of his prophesyings.

And therefore he welcomes earth in his _Rephan_, earth, with its whole
array of failures and despairs, as the fit training-ground for man. Better
its trials and losses and crosses than a sterile uniformity of
happiness; better its strife than rest in any golden mean of
excellence.

Nor are its intellectual errors and illusions without their educational
value. It is better, as _Development_, with its recollections of Browning's
childhood, assures us that the boy should believe in Troy siege, and
the combats of Hector and Achilles, as veritable facts of history, than
bend his brow over Wolfs Prolegomena or perplex his brain with
moral philosophies to grapple with which his mind is not yet
competent.

By and by his illusions will disappear while their gains will remain.

The general impression left by _Asolando_ is that of intellectual and
imaginative vigour. The series of _Bad Dreams_ is very striking and
original in both pictorial and passionate power.

_Dubiety_ is a poem of the Indian Summer, but it has the beauty, with
a touch of the pathos, proper to the time. The love songs are rather songs
of praise than of passion, but they are beautiful songs of praise,
and that entitled _Speculative_, which is frankly a poem of old age,
has in it the genuine passion of memory. _White Witchcraft_ does in truth
revive the manner of earlier volumes. The

Infinite passion and the pain Of finite hearts that yearn
told of in a poem of 1855 is present, with a touch of humour to guard it
from its own excess in the admirable _Inapprehensiveness_. The speaker
who may not liberate his soul can perhaps identify a quotation, and he
gallantly accepts his humble rôle in the tragi-comedy of foiled
passion:--

"No, the book Which noticed how the wall-growths wave," said she, "Was
not by Ruskin." I said "Vernon Lee."
And in the uttered "Vernon Lee" lies a vast renunciation half comical and
wholly tragic. There are jests in the volume, and these, with the exception
of _Ponte dell' Angelo_, have the merit of brevity; they buzz swiftly
in and out, and do not wind about us with the terror of voluminous
coils, as sometimes happens when Browning is in his mood of mirth. There
are stories, and they are told with spirit and with skill.

In _Beatrice Signorini_ the story-teller does justice to the honest
jealousy of a wife and to the honest love of a husband who returns from
the wanderings of his imagination to the frank fidelity of his
heart.

Cynicism grows genial in the jest of _The Pope and the Net_. In _Muckle-Mouth
Meg_, laughter and kisses, audible from the page, and a woman's
art in love-craft, turn tragedy in a hearty piece of comedy.

_The Bean-Feast_ presents us with the latest transformation of the Herakles
ideal, where a good Christian Herakles, Pope Sixtus of Rome, makes
common cause with his spiritual children in their humble pleasures
of the senses.

And in contrast with this poem of the religion of joy is the story of
another ruler of Rome, the too fortunate Emperor Augustus, who, in
the shadow of the religion of fear and sorrow, must propitiate the envy
of Fate by turning beggar once a year. A shivering thrill runs through
us as we catch a sight of the supreme mendicant's "sparkling eyes
beneath their eyebrows' ridge":

"He's God!"

shouts Lucius Varus Rufus: "Man And worms'-meat any moment!"

mutters low Some Power, admonishing the mortal-born.

There were nobler sides of Paganism than this with which Browning seems
never to have had an adequate sympathy. And yet the religion even of Marcus
Aurelius lacked something of the joy of the religion of the thankful
Pope who feasted upon beans.[144]
In the winter which followed his change of abode from Warwick
Crescent to the more commodious house in De Vere Gardens, the winter
of 1887-1888, Browning's health and strength visibly declined; a
succession of exhausting colds lowered his vitality; yet he maintained
his habitual ways of life, and would not yield.

In August 1888 he started ill for his Italian holiday, and travelled with
difficulty and distress. But the rest among the mountains at Primiero
restored him. At Venice he seemed as vigorous as he was joyous. And when
he returned to London in February 1889 the improvement in his
strength was in a considerable measure maintained.

Yet it was evident that the physical vigour which had seemed invincible was
on the ebb. In the early summer he paid the last of those visits,
which he so highly valued, to Balliol College, Oxford.
The opening week of June found him at Cambridge. Mr Gosse has told how on
the first Sunday of that month Browning and he sat together "in a sequestered
part of the beautiful Fellows' Garden of Trinity," under a cloudless sky,
amid the early foliage with double hawthorns in bloom, and how the
old man, in a mood of serenity and without his usual gesticulation,
talked of his own early life and aspirations.

He shrank that summer, says Mrs Orr, from the fatigue of a journey
to Italy and thought of Scotland as a place of rest.

But unfavourable weather in early August forbade the execution of the
plan. An invitation from Mrs Bronson to her house at Asolo, to be
followed by the pleasure of seeing his son and his son's wife in
the Palazzo Rezzonico, Venice, were attractions not to be resisted,
and in company with Miss Browning, he reached the little hill-town
that had grown so dear to him without mishap and even without
fatigue.

To the early days of July, shortly before his departure for Italy,
belong two incidents which may be placed side by side as exhibiting
two contrasted sides of Browning's character.

On the 5th of that month he dined with the Shah, who begged for the
gift of one of his books.

Next day he chose a volume the binding of which might, as he says,
"take the imperial eye"; but the pleasure of the day was another gift, a
gift to a person who was not imperial. "I said to myself," he wrote
to his young friend the painter Lehmann's daughter, addressed in the
letter as "My beloved Alma"--"I said to myself 'Here do I present my
poetry to a personage for whom I do not care three straws; why
should I not venture to do as much for a young lady I love dearly,
who, for the author's sake, will not impossibly care rather for the
inside than the outside of the volume?'

So I was bold enough to take one and offer it for your kind acceptance,
begging you to remember in days to come that the author, whether a good
poet or not, was always, my Alma, your affectionate friend, Robert Browning."
A gracious bowing of old age over the grace and charm of youth! But the
work of two days later, July 8th, was not gracious.

The lines "To Edward Fitzgerald," printed in _The Athenaeum_, were dated
on that day. It is stated by Mrs Orr that when they were despatched to
the journal in which they appeared, Browning regretted the deed, though
afterwards he found reasons to justify himself.
Fitzgerald's reference to Mrs Browning caused him a spasm of pain and
indignation, nor did the pain for long subside. The expression of his
indignation was outrageous in manner, and deficient in real power. He had
read a worse meaning into the unhappy words than had been intended,
and the writer was dead.

Browning's act was like an involuntary muscular contraction, which he
could not control. The lines sprang far more from love than from hate.
"I felt as if she had died yesterday," he said. We cannot regret
that Browning was capable of such an offence; we can only regret
that what should have controlled his cry of pain and rage did not
operate at the right moment.

In Asolo, beside "the gate," Mrs Bronson had found and partly made what Mr
Henry James describes as "one of the quaintest possible little
places of _villegiatura_"--La Mura, the house, "resting half upon
the dismantled, dissimulated town-wall.

No sweeter spot in all the sweetnesses of Italy." Browning's last
visit to Asolo was a time of almost unmingled enjoyment.

"He seemed possessed," writes Mrs Orr, "by a strange buoyancy, an
almost feverish joy in life." The thought that he was in Asolo again, which
he had first seen in his twenty-sixth year, and since then had never
ceased to remember with affection, was a happy wonder to him.

He would stand delighted on the loggia of La Mura, looking out over the
plain and identifying the places of historical interest, some of which
were connected with his own "Sordello." Nor was the later story forgotten
of Queen Caterina Cornaro, whose palace-tower overlooks Asolo, and
whose secretary, Cardinal Bembo, wrote _gli Asolani_, from which came
the suggestion for the title of Browning's forthcoming volume. At times,
as Mrs Bronson relates, the beauty of the prospect was enough,
with no historical reminiscences, the plain with its moving shadows,
the mountain-ranges to the west, and southwards the delicate outline
of the Euganean Hills. "I was right," said he, "to fall in love with this
place fifty years ago, was I not?"
The procedure of the day at Asolo was almost as regular as that of
a London day. The morning walk with his sister, when everything that was
notable was noted by his keen eyes, the return, English newspapers,
proof-sheets, correspondence, the light mid-day meal, the afternoon
drive in Mrs Branson's carriage, tea upon the loggia, the evening
with music or reading, or visits to the little theatre--these
constituted an almost unvarying and happy routine.

On his walks he delighted to recognise little details of architecture
which he had observed in former years; or he would peer into the hedgerows
and watch the living creatures that lurked there, or would "whistle
softly to the lizards basking on the low walls which border the
roads, to try his old power of attracting them

."[145] Sometimes a longer drive (and that to Bassano was his favourite)
required an earlier start in the carriage with luncheon at some little
inn. "If we were ever late in returning to Asolo," Mrs Bronson writes,
"he would say 'Tell Vittorio to drive quickly; we must not lose
the sunset from the loggia.' ...

Often after a storm, the effects of sun breaking through clouds before its
setting, combined with the scenery of plain and mountain, were such
as to rouse the poet to the greatest enthusiasm.

Heedless of cold or damp, forgetting himself completely, though
warmly wrapped to please others, he would gaze on the changing
aspects of earth and sky until darkness covered everything from his
sight."

When in the evenings Browning read aloud he did not, like Tennyson, as
described by Mr Rossetti, allow his voice to "sway onward with a
long-drawn chaunt" which gave "noble value and emphasis to the
metrical structure and pauses."

His delivery was full and distinctive, but it "took much less account
than Tennyson's of the poem as a rhythmical whole; his delivery had
more affinity to that of an actor, laying stress on all the light
and shade of the composition--its touches of character, the
conversational points, its dramatic give-and-take.

In those qualities of elocution in which Tennyson was strong, and aimed
to be strong, Browning was contentedly weak; and _vice versâ_."[146]
Sometimes, like another great poet, Pope, he was deeply affected
by the passion of beauty or heroism or pathos in what he read, and
could not control his feelings.

Mrs Orr mentions that in reading aloud his translation of the
_Herakles_, he, like Pope in reading a passage of his _Iliad_, was
moved to tears.

Dr Furnivall tells of the mounting excitement with which he once delivered
in the writer's hearing his _Ixion_. When at La Mura after his dreamy
playing, on a spinet of 1522, old airs, melodious, melancholy airs,
Browning would propose to read aloud, it was not his own poetry
that he most willingly chose.

"No R.B.
to-night," he would say; "then with a smile, 'Let us have some real
poetry'"; and the volume would be one by Shelley or Keats, or Coleridge
or Tennyson. It was as a punishment to his hostess for the crime of having
no Shakespeare on her shelves that he threatened her with one of his
"toughest poems"; but the tough poem, interpreted by his emphasis and
pauses, became "as clear and comprehensible as one could possibly
desire."

In his talk at Asolo "he seemed purposely to avoid deep and serious
topics.

If such were broached in his presence he dismissed them with one strong,
convincing sentence, and adroitly turned the current of conversation into
a shallower channel."

A project which came very near his heart was that of purchasing from
the municipal authorities a small piece of ground, divided from La Mura
by a ravine clothed with olive and other trees, "on which stood an
unfinished building"--the words are Mrs Bronson's--"commanding the
finest view in Asolo."

He desired much to have a summer or autumn abode to which he might turn
with the assurance of rest in what most pleased and suited him. In
imagination, with his characteristic eagerness, he had already
altered and added to the existing structure, and decided on the
size and aspect of the loggia which was to out-rival that of La Mura.

"'It shall have a tower,' he said, 'whence I can see Venice at every
hour of the day, and I shall call it "Pippa's Tower"....

We will throw a rustic bridge across the streamlet in the ravine.'"

And then, in a graver mood:
"It may not be for me to enjoy it long--who can say? But it will be
useful for Pen and his family....

But I am good for ten years yet."

And when his son visited Asolo and approved of the project of Pippa's
Tower, Browning's happiness in his dream was complete. It was on the
night of his death that the authorities of Asolo decided that the purchase
might be carried into effect.

[Illustration: THE PALAZZO REZZONICO, VENICE.

_From a drawing by_ Miss KATHERINE KIMBALL.]
For a time during this last visit to Asolo Browning suffered some
inconvenience from shortness of breath in climbing hills, but the
discomfort passed away.

He looked forward to an early return to England, spoke with pleasant
anticipation of the soft-pedal piano which his kind friend Mrs
Bronson desired to procure at Boston and place in his study in De
Vere Gardens, and he dreamed of future poetical achievements.

"Shall I whisper to you my ambition and my hope?" he asked his hostess.

"It is to write a tragedy better than anything I have done yet. I think
of it constantly." With the end of October the happy days at Asolo were
at an end. On the first of November he was in Venice, "magnificently
lodged," he says, "in this vast palazzo, which my son has really shown
himself fit to possess, so surprising are his restorations and improvements."

"Be th' holy, th' baste can spheak!" murmured the policemen.

"They'll kill me. Put me in the cell," pleaded the Missing Link.

"Troth an' I will," answered Mack; "but niver a one iv me knows iv ut's
lagel arristin' monkeys."

Nickie was run in. Next morning he appeared to answer a charge of
insulting behaviour, inciting a breach of the peace, and assaulting the
police. Thanks to Matty Cann, a change of raiment was made in the cell,
and Nickie Crips appeared in court in his proper person, and was fined
two pounds.

Nicholas Crips paid his fine, collected his belongings from the Museum of
Marvels, and went forth into the great world again, a man amongst men.
His career as an artist was ended.


CHAPTER XX.

THE RETURN.

NICHOLAS CRIPS came back to Melbourne, the image of a reputable and
orderly citizen. He had accepted office as a billiard-marker in a
township hotel while his whiskers grew; and now, full-bearded, dressed in
a new suit of sedate, grey tweed, wearing an excellent hat and whole
boots, he re-entered the city. His pockets were fairly-well lined, much
of the proceeds of his professional engagement under Professor Thunder
having been stored by Nickie as a provision for a long journey he was
contemplating. Nickie the Kid had mapped out for himself a
well-considered and wholly excellent scheme of life as a man of
comparative affluence, but that life must be lived under alien skies.

In the small chamois bag lurking next his heart was the talisman that was
to make an existence of comfort and good living possible to the vagabond
and outcast. The diamond is the true philosopher's stone.

Nicholas put in a few days sauntering about Melbourne, swinging a
neatly-rolled silk umbrella, smoking very excellent cigars. He passed
several frowsy acquaintances of other days, and on two he bestowed small
alms. He felt great satisfaction in the fact that none of his former
companions recognised Nickie the Kid in the well-groomed, well-dressed,
sleek, whiskered citizen.

On the third afternoon Mr. Crips entered a jeweller's shop, and placing a
small stone on the pad before the man behind the counter, said:

"Would you be so good as to tell me the value of that diamond, sir? I
picked it up on the floor of a first-class railway carriage the other
day, and having no means of testing it, I thought I might, eh, venture to
ask an expert."

The jeweller took up the stone, examined it, subjected it to a simple
test, and handed it hack to Mr. Crips:

"A good carbon, but practically valueless," he said.

Had Nicholas Crips received a blow full in the face he would not have
betrayed greater consternation. His cheeks turned grey, he gripped the
counter, all his assumed ease fell from him, he dropped every precaution,
forgot the grim necessity for care and cunning.

"It is not a diamond?" he gasped.

The jeweller shook his head. "It an awful disappointment," he said, "but
you may be sure you'll hear of it pretty quickly if you ever have the
luck to pick up a true diamond of that size."

Nicholas hadn't the spirit to thank the man. He turned into the street.
The buildings swam in a garish light, he felt his head rocking, and his
feet seemed scarcely to touch the paving stones rising and dipping under
him like a choppy sea. He drifted into a bar, and drank brandy, and went
forth again with renewed strength and revived hopes.

The jeweller was mistaken or ignorant, the diamonds must be genuine.
Nickie selected another stone, and told the same tale at a pawnbroker's
shop in another part of the city. The benignant Hebrew passed judgment
after a glance.

"Paste, my boy," he said, "not vorth ninepenth."

Grown rash in his anguish and anxiety, Nicholas Crips visited other
shops. The experts all told the same tale. The chamois bag held nothing
but carbon counterfeits! The prospect of a life of ease and elegance
faded away. It had been a vision, an illusion. Nickie's philosophy was
not proof against this stroke. He felt broken, beaten. In the seclusion
of his small room in a respectable suburban boarding-house, Nicholas wept
and brooded. And now that the possibility of the splendid reward was
gone, Nickie dwelt upon the fearful risk he had run more than he had done
in all the long months since he knelt by the murdered man in Bigg's
Buildings. He realised that in offering these sham stones for inspection
he had probably done a mad thing. The act might bring the noose about his
neck, if he were arrested, who would believe the absurd story he had to
tell.

Nickie had been careful to betray no particular interest in the great
murder case in the presence of his friends in the Museum of Marvels. He
knew that the fictitious Rev. Andrew Rowbottom had been inquired for by
the police as a man who might provide a clue, but the search for him had
not been warmly followed up, it being assumed that he was some trumpery
imposter. In any case, his importance was forgotten in a splendid
dramatic idea entertained by the detectives, inculpating a clever and
notorious criminal. The notorious criminal proved an alibi, and after
being a nine days' wonder the great diamond robbery and murder case was
supplanted in the public mind by an even more sensational crime. Nickie
in his terror of being associated with the murder had been careful, up to
now, to betray no interest. He had evaded conversation about it, and only
occasional papers had come into his hands at the show. Now he was eager
to know all the evidence, anxious to account for the presence of the
paste stones in the pocket of a reputable diamond dealer.

Mr. Crips determined to seek out "Mary Stuart." All hope of a comfortable
future was not lost. "Mary Stuart" must provide for her scape-goat. It
should be her pleasing duty to clothe and feed that hapless animal for
the remainder of its days.

In pursuit of his inquiries Nicholas turned up at Whitecliff on the
following Sunday afternoon. To the immense astonishment of the master and
mistress of that stuccoed mansion, Nickie was neat and clean, spick and
span: he wore pince-nez glasses and spoke like a gentleman.

Nickie greeted his brother William with chastened melancholy, his manner
towards his sister-in-law was courteous and kindly. He talked of
reformation and a new life, of the honourable and onerous position he now
occupied in a reputable Sydney business, and of his approaching marriage
with an excellent, middle-aged, maiden lady of means. Deftly he worked
round to a tall, aristocratic woman who had appeared a Mary Queen of
Scots at the memorable fancy-dress ball at Whitecliff.

Brother William groaned, sister Jean sat up very straight, and sniffed
ominously. "The creature!" she said.

"That woman was no friend of ours, Nicholas," said brother William,
hastily.

"I met her in your house," said Nicholas, "and from a brief conversation
I had I was deeply interested. It has occurred to me lately that if she
still holds the same views she would be of vast assistance to my firm in
a transaction we are meditating."

"Have nothing to do with her," cried William. "The creature was an
adventuress; she worked her way into our confidence with trickery and
fraud, presenting herself in society here as a lady of title. It was
afterwards proved that she had come to the country as the companion of an
infamous scamp who at that very time was serving a sentence of seven
years for attempted burglary and firing on the police. The woman
disappeared shortly after the occasion you mention. She left the country,
I imagine. At any rate, the police were pursuing her for some time for
passing valueless cheques. Please do not mention her name in this house;
it awakens painful recollections, Nicholas."

Mrs. William sniffed more significantly than before. "Williams cashed one
of those cheques," she said bitterly, with a venomous glance at her lord
that told volumes.

Nicholas recognised in that moment that the prospect of an easy,
well-clothed, well-fed, middle age at the expense of Mary Queen of Scots
was out of the question. He consoled himself to some small extent by
borrowing ten pounds from brother William after dinner.

Mr. Crips employed himself on the following day reading up the murder
case in back numbers of the Age in the newspaper annex of the Public
Library. He had to read a great deal of superfluous matter, and of many
idle schemes and excursions on the part of the police before he came upon
an illuminating little item in the shape of a casual hit of testimony
from a friend of the dead man. The friend explained that the diamond
dealer always carried in a small leather bag in his breast pocket a fine
assortment of paste brilliants, with the deliberate intention of
deceiving thieves who might attack him at any time. His idea was that the
thieves would seize this case and make off without prosecuting a further
search. But the murderer, whoever he was, was not content with the false
stones; he had secured £5,000 worth of pure diamonds!

The story of the paste jewels was not repeated, and nobody seemed to have
found any significance in it. At this late hour Nicholas Crips discovered
so much meaning in it that he went out into the wide Domain to be alone
among the trees to think it over. His thoughts came back always to the
crucial point.

"I got the paste brilliants," he muttered. "She got the real diamonds.
She had them about her when I entered. She knew of the carbons, and she
stalled me off with them. Lord, what a mug I was!"

Even in his great bitterness of spirit Nicholas could not help admiring
the woman who had so completely sold him, and raising his hand in a mock
salute, he said aloud:

"Mary Queen of Scots You're a DAISY!!"

"The little eager lady," as Henry James describes her, "with gentle,
gay black eyes," had seen much, read much, written already a little (with
more to follow), but better than all else were her generous heart and her
helpful hand.
THE END