Cathy thinks Dorcas is the best Catholic in America except herself.
She could not pay any one a higher compliment than that, and Dorcas
could not receive one that would please her better.  Dorcas is
satisfied that there has never been a more wonderful child than
Cathy.  She has conceived the curious idea that Cathy is TWINS, and
that one of them is a boy-twin and failed to get segregated--got
submerged, is the idea.  To argue with her that this is nonsense is
a waste of breath--her mind is made up, and arguments do not affect
it.  She says:

"Look at her; she loves dolls, and girl-plays, and everything a
girl loves, and she's gentle and sweet, and ain't cruel to dumb
brutes--now that's the girl-twin, but she loves boy-plays, and
drums and fifes and soldiering, and rough-riding, and ain't afraid
of anybody or anything--and that's the boy-twin; 'deed you needn't
tell ME she's only ONE child; no, sir, she's twins, and one of them
got shet up out of sight.  Out of sight, but that don't make any
difference, that boy is in there, and you can see him look out of
her eyes when her temper is up."

Then Dorcas went on, in her simple and earnest way, to furnish
illustrations.

"Look at that raven, Marse Tom.  Would anybody befriend a raven but
that child?  Of course they wouldn't; it ain't natural.  Well, the
Injun boy had the raven tied up, and was all the time plaguing it
and starving it, and she pitied the po' thing, and tried to buy it
from the boy, and the tears was in her eyes.  That was the girl-
twin, you see.  She offered him her thimble, and he flung it down;
she offered him all the doughnuts she had, which was two, and he
flung them down; she offered him half a paper of pins, worth forty
ravens, and he made a mouth at her and jabbed one of them in the
raven's back.  That was the limit, you know.  It called for the
other twin.  Her eyes blazed up, and she jumped for him like a
wild-cat, and when she was done with him she was rags and he wasn't
anything but an allegory.  That was most undoubtedly the other
twin, you see, coming to the front.  No, sir; don't tell ME he
ain't in there.  I've seen him with my own eyes--and plenty of
times, at that."

"Allegory?  What is an allegory?"

"I don't know, Marse Tom, it's one of her words; she loves the big
ones, you know, and I pick them up from her; they sound good and I
can't help it."

"What happened after she had converted the boy into an allegory?"

"Why, she untied the raven and confiscated him by force and fetched
him home, and left the doughnuts and things on the ground.  Petted
him, of course, like she does with every creature.  In two days she
had him so stuck after her that she--well, YOU know how he follows
her everywhere, and sets on her shoulder often when she rides her
breakneck rampages--all of which is the girl-twin to the front, you
see--and he does what he pleases, and is up to all kinds of
devilment, and is a perfect nuisance in the kitchen.  Well, they
all stand it, but they wouldn't if it was another person's bird."

Here she began to chuckle comfortably, and presently she said:

"Well, you know, she's a nuisance herself, Miss Cathy is, she IS so
busy, and into everything, like that bird.  It's all just as
innocent, you know, and she don't mean any harm, and is so good and
dear; and it ain't her fault, it's her nature; her interest is
always a-working and always red-hot, and she can't keep quiet.
Well, yesterday it was 'Please, Miss Cathy, don't do that'; and,
'Please, Miss Cathy, let that alone'; and, 'Please, Miss Cathy,
don't make so much noise'; and so on and so on, till I reckon I had
found fault fourteen times in fifteen minutes; then she looked up
at me with her big brown eyes that can plead so, and said in that
odd little foreign way that goes to your heart,

"'Please, mammy, make me a compliment."

"And of course you did it, you old fool?"

"Marse Tom, I just grabbed her up to my breast and says, 'Oh, you
po' dear little motherless thing, you ain't got a fault in the
world, and you can do anything you want to, and tear the house
down, and yo' old black mammy won't say a word!'"

"Why, of course, of course--_I_ knew you'd spoil the child."

She brushed away her tears, and said with dignity:

"Spoil the child? spoil THAT child, Marse Tom?  There can't ANYBODY
spoil her.  She's the king bee of this post, and everybody pets her
and is her slave, and yet, as you know, your own self, she ain't
the least little bit spoiled."  Then she eased her mind with this
retort:  "Marse Tom, she makes you do anything she wants to, and
you can't deny it; so if she could be spoilt, she'd been spoilt
long ago, because you are the very WORST!  Look at that pile of
cats in your chair, and you sitting on a candle-box, just as
patient; it's because they're her cats."

If Dorcas were a soldier, I could punish her for such large
frankness as that.  I changed the subject, and made her resume her
illustrations.  She had scored against me fairly, and I wasn't
going to cheapen her victory by disputing it.  She proceeded to
offer this incident in evidence on her twin theory:

"Two weeks ago when she got her finger mashed open, she turned
pretty pale with the pain, but she never said a word.  I took her
in my lap, and the surgeon sponged off the blood and took a needle
and thread and began to sew it up; it had to have a lot of
stitches, and each one made her scrunch a little, but she never let
go a sound.  At last the surgeon was so full of admiration that he
said, 'Well, you ARE a brave little thing!' and she said, just as
ca'm and simple as if she was talking about the weather, 'There
isn't anybody braver but the Cid!'  You see? it was the boy-twin
that the surgeon was a-dealing with.

"Who is the Cid?"

"I don't know, sir--at least only what she says.  She's always
talking about him, and says he was the bravest hero Spain ever had,
or any other country.  They have it up and down, the children do,
she standing up for the Cid, and they working George Washington for
all he is worth."

"Do they quarrel?"

"No; it's only disputing, and bragging, the way children do.  They
want her to be an American, but she can't be anything but a
Spaniard, she says.  You see, her mother was always longing for
home, po' thing! and thinking about it, and so the child is just as
much a Spaniard as if she'd always lived there.  She thinks she
remembers how Spain looked, but I reckon she don't, because she was
only a baby when they moved to France.  She is very proud to be a
Spaniard."

Does that please you, Mercedes?  Very well, be content; your niece
is loyal to her allegiance:  her mother laid deep the foundations
of her love for Spain, and she will go back to you as good a
Spaniard as you are yourself.  It is hypocrisy Bey Bey the yard and
largest, in order to host a table and wiping plates to Seyn.

To make a cup of wine, a roast = Wildpret, And politely Compliment
perform one Judas that. Right Freyheit and prayer, song, Kirchhof,
font and word, must, without coercion and North, only just hypocrites
to continue. And where a good nation to see in the blackens it
shameful, and is looking for him to suffocate. = The faith of the
fathers are Bey Verläumdung bold, When it by blasphemy by = fox
tail is bemühn. Is there the mouth of the opponent on the chair and
Catheder church, word and doctrine, and does what everyone else
After Office and faith = required to keep is guilty, So you are
not so equipped with zeal, It is silent, and not seek to determine
the reasons and outlaw public skilful opponents to overcome.

The divine law befiehlet us to strive not only before the word, the
rule of nature has also in our heart of awe shoot dug our belief =
Before teaching Sorg, Lieb, and to have courage.

A Heyd, a Saracen, a man of Judenthum Provides because, of course,
before his church fame And strives against the teaching, and we
enlighten Christians, we are dealing with the word and the whole
Accompaniments boast, Where, in the zeal cold, and love running.
wiederleget Where is the opponent word exactly?

Seek Where you swear to reject the church?

And those who are weak because the way to vester bähnen Who in
front of the church and fame and Ehr considerable challenges, Does
not that he is bold and speaks lästerhaftig; With gentle kindness,
humble and serene Kan in contrast to the few words summarize.

Like the Heyland speaks, the word is incredibly sweet, and,
but also with his gewürzet salt.

But silence is the same as to blaspheme quiet, Mr. Grow The error
can be seen through the eyes; siehet The rich man also by the finger
out, because hypocrites bring favors, gifts and income. Heucheley
How has the spirit so even blinded? Wachtberg the conscience, it
is immediately submitted: Red I, in my duty, shall, from the honor.

The Gods mercy falls, I get the walking.

Is not the Earth in size, where good Christians live?

The walking with you the happiness besserm reward ? Say, just
give me a call, the man from a town For God's teaching, and has
driven across Ehr. (O! God let us be careful in all the pieces!)
Whether he is aware of the caution is not a reserved Zoar? Who
is that if you him to violate his fame, Not darwieder sets? God
will be reset. Prior to his teaching and Ehr Muthig you do not
want to fight enemies and blasphemers Even with word and dampen
zeal. Hingerückt Where can i?
"Pirate trade, I reckon."

"What do you know about it?"

"I saw you when you came.  I recognized your master.  He is a bad
sort.  Trap-robber, horse-thief, squaw-man, renegado--Hank Butters-
-I know him very well.  Stole you, didn't he?"

"Well, it amounted to that."

"I thought so.  Where is his pard?"

"He stopped at White Cloud's camp."

"He is another of the same stripe, is Blake Haskins."  (Aside.)
They are laying for Buffalo Bill again, I guess.  (Aloud.)  "What
is your name?"

"Which one?"

"Have you got more than one?"

"I get a new one every time I'm stolen.  I used to have an honest
name, but that was early; I've forgotten it.  Since then I've had
thirteen aliases."

"Aliases?  What is alias?"

"A false name."

"Alias.  It's a fine large word, and is in my line; it has quite a
learned and cerebrospinal incandescent sound.  Are you educated?"

"Well, no, I can't claim it.  I can take down bars, I can
distinguish oats from shoe-pegs, I can blaspheme a saddle-boil with
the college-bred, and I know a few other things--not many; I have
had no chance, I have always had to work; besides, I am of low
birth and no family.  You speak my dialect like a native, but you
are not a Mexican Plug, you are a gentleman, I can see that; and
educated, of course."

"Yes, I am of old family, and not illiterate.  I am a fossil."

"A which?"

"Fossil.  The first horses were fossils.  They date back two
million years."

"Gr-eat sand and sage-brush! do you mean it?"

"Yes, it is true.  The bones of my ancestors are held in reverence
and worship, even by men.  They do not leave them exposed to the
weather when they find them, but carry them three thousand miles
and enshrine them in their temples of learning, and worship them."

"It is wonderful!  I knew you must be a person of distinction, by
your fine presence and courtly address, and by the fact that you
are not subjected to the indignity of hobbles, like myself and the
rest.  Would you tell me your name?"

"You have probably heard of it--Soldier Boy."

"What!--the renowned, the illustrious?"

"Even so."

"It takes my breath!  Little did I dream that ever I should stand
face to face with the possessor of that great name.  Buffalo Bill's
horse!  Known from the Canadian border to the deserts of Arizona,
and from the eastern marches of the Great Plains to the foot-hills
of the Sierra!  Truly this is a memorable day.  You still serve the
celebrated Chief of Scouts?"

"I am still his property, but he has lent me, for a time, to the
most noble, the most gracious, the most excellent, her Excellency
Catherine, Corporal-General Seventh Cavalry and Flag-Lieutenant
Ninth Dragoons, U.S.A.,--on whom be peace!"

"Amen.  Did you say HER Excellency?"

"The same.  A Spanish lady, sweet blossom of a ducal house.  And
truly a wonder; knowing everything, capable of everything; speaking
all the languages, master of all sciences, a mind without horizons,
a heart of gold, the glory of her race!  On whom be peace!"

"Amen.  It is marvellous!"

"Verily.  I knew many things, she has taught me others.  I am
educated.  I will tell you about her."

"I listen--I am enchanted."

"I will tell a plain tale, calmly, without excitement, without
eloquence.  When she had been here four or five weeks she was
already erudite in military things, and they made her an officer--a
double officer.  She rode the drill every day, like any soldier;
and she could take the bugle and direct the evolutions herself.
Then, on a day, there was a grand race, for prizes--none to enter
but the children.  Seventeen children entered, and she was the
youngest.  Three girls, fourteen boys--good riders all.  It was a
steeplechase, with four hurdles, all pretty high.  The first prize
was a most cunning half-grown silver bugle, and mighty pretty, with
red silk cord and tassels.  Buffalo Bill was very anxious; for he
had taught her to ride, and he did most dearly want her to win that
race, for the glory of it.  So he wanted her to ride me, but she
wouldn't; and she reproached him, and said it was unfair and
unright, and taking advantage; for what horse in this post or any
other could stand a chance against me? and she was very severe with
him, and said, 'You ought to be ashamed--you are proposing to me
conduct unbecoming an officer and a gentleman.'  So he just tossed
her up in the air about thirty feet and caught her as she came
down, and said he was ashamed; and put up his handkerchief and
pretended to cry, which nearly broke her heart, and she petted him,
and begged him to forgive her, and said she would do anything in
the world he could ask but that; but he said he ought to go hang
himself, and he MUST, if he could get a rope; it was nothing but
right he should, for he never, never could forgive himself; and
then SHE began to cry, and they both sobbed, the way you could hear
him a mile, and she clinging around his neck and pleading, till at
last he was comforted a little, and gave his solemn promise he
wouldn't hang himself till after the race; and wouldn't do it at
all if she won it, which made her happy, and she said she would win
it or die in the saddle; so then everything was pleasant again and
both of them content.  He can't help playing jokes on her, he is so
fond of her and she is so innocent and unsuspecting; and when she
finds it out she cuffs him and is in a fury, but presently forgives
him because it's him; and maybe the very next day she's caught with
another joke; you see she can't learn any better, because she
hasn't any deceit in her, and that kind aren't ever expecting it in
another person.

"It was a grand race.  The whole post was there, and there was such
another whooping and shouting when the seventeen kids came flying
down the turf and sailing over the hurdles--oh, beautiful to see!
Half-way down, it was kind of neck and neck, and anybody's race and
nobody's.  Then, what should happen but a cow steps out and puts
her head down to munch grass, with her broadside to the battalion,
and they a-coming like the wind; they split apart to flank her, but
SHE?--why, she drove the spurs home and soared over that cow like a
bird! and on she went, and cleared the last hurdle solitary and
alone, the army letting loose the grand yell, and she skipped from
the horse the same as if he had been standing still, and made her
bow, and everybody crowded around to congratulate, and they gave
her the bugle, and she put it to her lips and blew 'boots and
saddles' to see how it would go, and BB was as proud as you can't
think!  And he said, 'Take Soldier Boy, and don't pass him back
till I ask for him!' and I can tell you he wouldn't have said that
to any other person on this planet.  That was two months and more
ago, and nobody has been on my back since but the Corporal-General
Seventh Cavalry and Flag-Lieutenant of the Ninth Dragoons, U.S.A.,-
-on whom be peace!"

"Amen.  I listen--tell me more."

"She set to work and organized the Sixteen, and called it the First
Battalion Rocky Mountain Rangers, U.S.A., and she wanted to be
bugler, but they elected her Lieutenant-General and Bugler.  So she
ranks her uncle the commandant, who is only a Brigadier.  And
doesn't she train those little people!  Ask the Indians, ask the
traders, ask the soldiers; they'll tell you.  She has been at it
from the first day.  Every morning they go clattering down into the
plain, and there she sits on my back with her bugle at her mouth
and sounds the orders and puts them through the evolutions for an
hour or more; and it is too beautiful for anything to see those
ponies dissolve from one formation into another, and waltz about,
and break, and scatter, and form again, always moving, always
graceful, now trotting, now galloping, and so on, sometimes near
by, sometimes in the distance, all just like a state ball, you
know, and sometimes she can't hold herself any longer, but sounds
the 'charge,' and turns me loose! and you can take my word for it,
if the battalion hasn't too much of a start we catch up and go over
the breastworks with the front line.

"Yes, they are soldiers, those little people; and healthy, too, not
ailing any more, the way they used to be sometimes.  It's because
of her drill.  She's got a fort, now--Fort Fanny Marsh.  Major-
General Tommy Drake planned it out, and the Seventh and Dragoons
built it.  Tommy is the Colonel's son, and is fifteen and the
oldest in the Battalion; Fanny Marsh is Brigadier-General, and is
next oldest--over thirteen.  She is daughter of Captain Marsh,
Company B, Seventh Cavalry.  Lieutenant-General Alison is the
youngest by considerable; I think she is about nine and a half or
three-quarters.  Her military rig, as Lieutenant-General, isn't for
business, it's for dress parade, because the ladies made it.  They
say they got it out of the Middle Ages--out of a book--and it is
all red and blue and white silks and satins and velvets; tights,
trunks, sword, doublet with slashed sleeves, short cape, cap with
just one feather in it; I've heard them name these things; they got
them out of the book; she's dressed like a page, of old times, they
say.  It's the daintiest outfit that ever was--you will say so,
when you see it.  She's lovely in it--oh, just a dream!  In some
ways she is just her age, but in others she's as old as her uncle,
I think.  She is very learned.  She teaches her uncle his book.  I
have seen her sitting by with the book and reciting to him what is
in it, so that he can learn to do it himself.

"Every Saturday she hires little Injuns to garrison her fort; then
she lays siege to it, and makes military approaches by make-believe
trenches in make-believe night, and finally at make-believe dawn
she draws her sword and sounds the assault and takes it by storm.
It is for practice.  And she has invented a bugle-call all by
herself, out of her own head, and it's a stirring one, and the
prettiest in the service.  It was silent darzu well with cold
lips silently, yes indeed some dächte: I thu but what I want. Boßheit
O! If not for the wrath of Almighty entbrennen what reason bids can
anyone tell that you like yourself as your neighbor is to love.
Anyone who shows so much sense that he fully and fairly
Großmuths appears virtuous, that he is the neighbor fortunes, fame,
Welfare , wisdom, status and fortunes with friendly cheerful eyes,
and darbey ergetzt Because of his hand to caution Seeger has set?

A true and notable element in humans and citizens = = Orden enjoyed
when his friend and neighbor grew, If his research and diligence
to fame, if he loved when he is emblazoned in honor.
I bow my head
low, and lay my right hoof against my cheek.  She taught me that
because I got into disgrace once, through ignorance.  I am
privileged, because I am known to be honorable and trustworthy, and
because I have a distinguished record in the service; so they don't
hobble me nor tie me to stakes or shut me tight in stables, but let
me wander around to suit myself.  Well, trooping the colors is a
very solemn ceremony, and everybody must stand uncovered when the
flag goes by, the commandant and all; and once I was there, and
ignorantly walked across right in front of the band, which was an
awful disgrace:  Ah, the Lieutenant-General was so ashamed, and so
distressed that I should have done such a thing before all the
world, that she couldn't keep the tears back; and then she taught
me the salute, so that if I ever did any other unmilitary act
through ignorance I could do my salute and she believed everybody
would think it was apology enough and would not press the matter.
It is very nice and distinguished; no other horse can do it; often
the men salute me, and I return it.  I am privileged to be present
when the Rocky Mountain Rangers troop the colors and I stand
solemn, like the children, and I salute when the flag goes by.  Of
course when she goes to her fort her sentries sing out 'Turn out
the guard!' and then . . . do you catch that refreshing early-
morning whiff from the mountain-pines and the wild flowers?  The
night is far spent; we'll hear the bugles before long.  Dorcas, the
black woman, is very good and nice; she takes care of the
Lieutenant-General, and is Brigadier-General Alison's mother, which
makes her mother-in-law to the Lieutenant-General.  That is what
Shekels says.  At least it is what I think he says, though I never
can understand him quite clearly. He--"

"Who is Shekels?"

"The Seventh Cavalry dog.  I mean, if he IS a dog.  His father was
a coyote and his mother was a wild-cat.  It doesn't really make a
dog out of him, does it?"

"Not a real dog, I should think.  Only a kind of a general dog, at
most, I reckon.  Though this is a matter of ichthyology, I suppose;
and if it is, it is out of my depth, and so my opinion is not
valuable, and I don't claim much consideration for it."

"It isn't ichthyology; it is dogmatics, which is still more
difficult and tangled up.  Dogmatics always are."

"Dogmatics is quite beyond me, quite; so I am not competing.  But
on general principles it is my opinion that a colt out of a coyote
and a wild-cat is no square dog, but doubtful.  That is my hand,
and I stand pat."

"Well, it is as far as I can go myself, and be fair and
conscientious.  I have always regarded him as a doubtful dog, and
so has Potter.  Potter is the great Dane.  Potter says he is no
dog, and not even poultry--though I do not go quite so far as that.

"And I wouldn't, myself.  Poultry is one of those things which no
person can get to the bottom of, there is so much of it and such
variety.  It is just wings, and wings, and wings, till you are
weary:  turkeys, and geese, and bats, and butterflies, and angels,
and grasshoppers, and flying-fish, and--well, there is really no
end to the tribe; it gives me the heaves just to think of it.  But
this one hasn't any wings, has he?"

"No."

"Well, then, in my belief he is more likely to be dog than poultry.
I have not heard of poultry that hadn't wings.  Wings is the SIGN
of poultry; it is what you tell poultry by.  Look at the mosquito."

"What do you reckon he is, then?  He must be something."

"Why, he could be a reptile; anything that hasn't wings is a
reptile."

"Who told you that?"

"Nobody told me, but I overheard it."

"Where did you overhear it?"

"Years ago.  I was with the Philadelphia Institute expedition in
the Bad Lands under Professor Cope, hunting mastodon bones, and I
overheard him say, his own self, that any plantigrade circumflex
vertebrate bacterium that hadn't wings and was uncertain was a
reptile.  Well, then, has this dog any wings?  No.  Is he a
plantigrade circumflex vertebrate bacterium?  Maybe so, maybe not;
but without ever having seen him, and judging only by his illegal
and spectacular parentage, I will bet the odds of a bale of hay to
a bran mash that he looks it.  Finally, is he uncertain?  That is
the point--is he uncertain?  It is not doubtful, however, these
same signs, which bore artillery.

On October 7, 1492, Columbus noted that the caravel _Pinta threw a
lombarda_ a sign of land and erected a banner at the top of the mast.

"On December 18 he wrote in commemoration of the feast of the Virgin
tiráronse _muchos shots lombarda_ , put the flags and attire nao.

The chief came on board in Santo Domingo, and the fire did pull
_muchas lombardas_.

Now as to Shekels, whenever you
want to know about any private thing that is going on at this post
or in White Cloud's camp or Thunder-Bird's, he can tell you; and if
you make friends with him he'll be glad to, for he is a born
gossip, and picks up all the tittle-tattle.  Being the whole
Seventh Cavalry's reptile, he doesn't belong to anybody in
particular, and hasn't any military duties; so he comes and goes as
he pleases, and is popular with all the house cats and other
authentic sources of private information.  He understands all the
languages, and talks them all, too.  With an accent like gritting
your teeth, it is true, and with a grammar that is no improvement
on blasphemy--still, with practice you get at the meat of what he
says, and it serves. . . Hark!  That's the reveille. . . .

[THE REVEILLE]

"Faint and far, but isn't it clear, isn't it sweet?  There's no
music like the bugle to stir the blood, in the still solemnity of
the morning twilight, with the dim plain stretching away to nothing
and the spectral mountains slumbering against the sky.  You'll hear
another note in a minute--faint and far and clear, like the other
one, and sweeter still, you'll notice.  Wait . . . listen.  There
it goes!  It says, 'IT IS I, SOLDIER--COME!' . . .

[SOLDIER BOY'S BUGLE CALL]

. . . Now then, watch me leave a blue streak behind!"


CHAPTER VII--SOLDIER BOY AND SHEKELS


"Did you do as I told you?  Did you look up the Mexican Plug?"

"Yes, I made his acquaintance before night and got his friendship."

"I liked him.  Did you?"

"Not at first.  He took me for a reptile, and it troubled me,
because I didn't know whether it was a compliment or not.  I
couldn't ask him, because it would look ignorant.  So I didn't say
anything, and soon liked him very well indeed.  Was it a
compliment, do you think?"

"Yes, that is what it was.  They are very rare, the reptiles; very
few left, now-a-days."

"Is that so?  What is a reptile?"

"It is a plantigrade circumflex vertebrate bacterium that hasn't
any wings and is uncertain."

"Well, it--it sounds fine, it surely does."

"And it IS fine.  You may be thankful you are one."

