Produced by Juliet Sutherland, Anuradha Valsa Raj, Leonard
Johnson and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
http://www.pgdp.net


[Illustration: "Boy Blue and Shep play together in the fields."]


BOY BLUE
AND HIS FRIENDS

BY
ETTA AUSTIN BLAISDELL

AND

MARY FRANCES BLAISDELL

AUTHORS OF "CHILD LIFE," "CHILD LIFE IN TALE AND FABLE,"
"CHILD LIFE IN MANY LANDS," "CHILD LIFE IN LITERATURE," ETC.


COPYRIGHT, 1906,
BY LITTLE, BROWN, AND COMPANY


~PREFACE~


This is a book of short stories for the youngest readers,--stories
about old friends, which they can easily read themselves.

Here they will learn why Mary's Lamb went to school, what the mouse was
looking for when he ran up the clock, why one little pig went to
market, how one little pig got lost, and the answers to a great many
other puzzling questions.

The stories are written around some of the Mother Goose rhymes because
the children love to meet old friends in books just as well as we do.

The vocabulary is limited to words easily recognized by beginners in
reading, and the sentences are made short and direct, so that they will
be understood. The stories progress gradually from very easy to more
difficult matter, keeping pace with the child's increasing knowledge
and ability,--the book being carefully arranged for use as a
supplementary reader, or for home reading for the little ones.


by the United States 40
A FEW FACTS ABOUT THE POST OFFICE IN CANADA.

COMPILED FROM AUTHENTIC SOURCES.

The earliest records of the administration of the post office in
Canada bear date 1750, at which period the celebrated Benjamin
Franklin was Deputy Postmaster General of North America.

At the time of his appointment the revenue of the department was
insufficient to defray his salary of £300 per annum; but under his
judicious management not only was the postal accommodation in the
Provinces considerably extended, but the revenue so greatly increased,
that ere long the profit for one year, which he remitted to the
British treasury, amounted to £3000.

In the evidence given by Franklin before the British House of Commons
in the year 1766, in regard to the extent of the post office
accommodation in North America, he made the following statement:--

"The posts generally travel along the sea coasts, and only in a few
cases do they go back into the country.

Between Quebec and Montreal there is only one post per month.

The inhabitants live so scattered and remote from each other in
that vast country that the posts cannot be supported amongst them.

The English colonies, too, along the frontier are very thinly
settled."

Franklin was removed in 1774.

War broke out a few months afterwards between the North American
Provinces and the Mother Country; and the charge of the post office
in Canada was assumed by Mr.

  
    Sometimes he goes with the boy to watch the sheep.

Shep, the dog, always goes with them. He watches the sheep all day
long.

They like to get into the meadow where the grass is green and sweet.

But Shep drives them out every time.

Boy Blue and Shep play together in the fields. They run and jump and
chase each other.

Boy Blue hides, and Shep finds him. "Bow-wow!" Shep says. "Here you
are! Now for a frolic."

And off they go again.

Boy Blue likes to feed the chickens.

He likes to drive the ducks down to the brook and watch them swim about
in the water.

Sometimes he helps his mother take care of Little Sister.

Then she calls him her "Little Helper."

"No," he says, "I am your Big Boy Blue."


SNOWBALL


One morning Boy Blue had tears in his big blue eyes.

He could not find his Snowball.

You will laugh when I tell you who Snowball was.

She was not hard and cold.

She was soft and warm.

Snowball was a pretty, white hen.

She was Boy Blue's very own, and she would follow him all over the
yard.

She would eat grain from his hand, and let him smooth her white
feathers.

But now Boy Blue could not find her.

He had looked in the hen-house and all over the yard.

"Have you looked in the barn?" asked his mother.

"Oh, no!" said Boy Blue, "and I saw her coming out of the barn
yesterday."

"So did I," said his mother. "I think you will find her in the hay."

Boy Blue climbed up on the hay.

There in a corner he found his Snowball.

When she saw her little friend, she began to scold.

"Why, Snowball, what are you doing here?" said Boy Blue.

"Cluck, cluck," said Snowball. "Do not come too near."

[Illustration]

"I have some eggs in this nice warm nest.

"Soon I shall have some little chickens for you.

"Oh, oh!" The annual travel of the mail was 370,000 miles.

The gross revenue was $68,000; and the revenue transmitted to
England, after deducting $1200, the supposed surplus for New
Brunswick, $21,000.

At this time the population of Lower Canada was about 440,000, and
of Upper Canada 150,000.

In this year Mr. Sutherland was succeeded, as Deputy Postmaster
General, by Mr.

Thos. A.

Stayner, and shortly after was effected the separation of nearly
the whole of New Brunswick from the Canada charge.

Under the long and able administration of Mr.

Stayner, extending from the year 1824 to 1851, postal accommodation was
greatly extended throughout Upper and Lower Canada.

In 1827 there were 101 post offices and 2368 miles of established
post route.

The annual transportation of the mail was 455,000 miles.

The estimated number of letters passing through the post in the
year was 340,000; the estimated number of papers, 400,000.

In the year 1832 the Duke of Richmond, then Postmaster General,
proposed a re-modification of the post office throughout British
North America.

An Act was prepared with this object, but the attempt to pass it
through the several Legislatures failed, and of all the plans that
had been contemplated only two were carried into effect, namely,
the establishment of an Accountant's Office and the appointment of
Local Inspectors.

The attention of the Legislature of Upper Canada was, about this
time, frequently turned to the post office, which still continued
under the Imperial control.

Committees were appointed and reports made, in which the transfer
of the management of the department to the Colonial Government was
strongly urged.

In the year 1837 a joint address from the Legislative Council and
Assembly was adopted, praying that the revenue produced by the post
office in the Colonies should no longer be remitted to England.

This address was referred to the Lords of the Treasury, and by them
referred to Lord Durham, on the ground that some general measure
was required to carry its prayer into effect.

Nothing, however, was done until some years afterwards towards the
accomplishment of this end.

A large and steady increase continued to take place yearly in the
business and revenue of the post office.

In 1838 there were 380 post offices, and 5486 miles of established
post route.

The annual transportation of the mail was 1,345,000 miles; the
estimated number of letters carried, 1,000,000; the estimated number
of newspapers, 1,250,000; and the gross revenue, $146,000.

The following extract from the Quebec <i>Mercury</i>, published on
the 18th July, 1829, conveys some idea of the postal communication
with England at that period:--
"No later advices have been received from Europe since our last.

Some further extracts from the London papers, to 31st May inclusive,
brought to New York by the 'Corinthian,' will be found in another
part of this number."

Papa thought that was a good idea.

The next day he took Boy Blue to town to buy a pony cart.

They went to two or three stores but they could not find one small
enough for Fire-cracker to draw.

At last Boy Blue saw one in a window.

It was painted blue and had red wheels.

It had a seat just big enough for Boy Blue and Little Sister.

So Papa and Boy Blue went into the store and bought it.

The next morning Boy Blue took Little Sister for a ride.

Fire-cracker was very careful.

He walked slowly and looked around very often to see the two children.

Perhaps he was thinking, "How fine we all look this morning!

"That is a very pretty carriage, and I like this harness, too.

"My coat shines in the sun and Boy Blue put a red ribbon in my mane.

"How proud he looks, holding the reins!

"I think he likes to take Little Sister for a ride.

"I like to see them both so happy.

"Good-bye, I am going to trot fast now."


BOY BLUE'S DREAM


It was a very hot day.

Boy Blue had played all the morning and he was tired.

Little Sister had been making mud pies and she was tired, too.

Mamma was too busy to read to them.

"Come, Little Sister," said Boy Blue, "It is too hot to play. I will
read my story-book to you."

"Where shall we go?" asked the little girl.

"Let us sit under the maple tree," said her brother. "It looks cool
there."

Little Sister had her baby doll.

She rocked back and forth as Boy Blue read to her.

Soon Little Sister and her doll were fast asleep.

All at once Boy Blue heard a voice.

He listened. [Sidenote: Canada railways.]

 Mails are conveyed twice each way every
  day, except Sunday, over
  the principal lines of railway in Canada.

Over the less important lines of railway they are carried only once
each way every day, except Sunday.

But he was so sleepy,--he couldn't run after the sheep.

In a moment he fell asleep.

Then he heard the voice again:--

  "Little Boy Blue, come blow your horn,
    The sheep's in the meadow,
    The cow's in the corn."

Yes, he could see the cow eating the corn in the field.

And there was the sheep in the meadow, eating the fresh green grass.

He must call them away.

So he took up the horn and put it to his mouth.

Then he blew one loud call.

"Oh!" he said, as he opened his eyes, "What a loud noise that was!"

Then he laughed and rubbed his eyes.

"I guess I was dreaming," he said.

"I guess I was dreaming, too," said Little Sister, opening her blue
eyes.

Then she waked up her doll, and Boy Blue went on reading from his
story-book.


  Mary had a little lamb,
    Its fleece was white as snow,
  And everywhere that Mary went
    The lamb was sure to go.

  He followed her to school one day,
    Which was against the rule.
  It made the children laugh and play
    To see a lamb at school.

  And so the teacher put him out,
    But still he lingered near,
  And waited patiently about
    Till Mary did appear.


MARY'S LAMB


Of course you know all about Mary and her little lamb.

The little girl in this story was named Mary, and she had a little
lamb, too.

Mary was Boy Blue's cousin.

She lived in the city, and her father owned a big toy-store.

Mary liked to go to the store with him.

She liked to see all the dolls and toys and books.

Sometimes she played store with her own toys.

But I must tell you about her lamb.

One summer Mary went to the country to visit Boy Blue.

Of course there were cows, and pigs, and sheep, and lambs on the farm,

Mary liked the lambs best, and one of them was a great pet.

She called him Fleecy, and pulled sweet clover for him to eat.

Fleecy followed Mary all over the farm. Sometimes he even ran down the
road after her.

When Mary was going home her uncle said to her, "You may take Fleecy
with you, if you wish."

So the next day Fleecy had a long ride in the train.

[Illustration]

I don't think he liked it very well, but he didn't say a word.

When Mary took him out of the box he was glad to run about in the yard.

He soon became used to his new home.

He liked to play with the children.

They often played hide and seek.

When they hid behind the trees he could always find them.


THE LAMB AT SCHOOL


One morning Fleecy could not find Mary.

He looked everywhere for her.

She was not in the yard, and she was not in the barn.

He went to the gate, and looked down the street, but he could not see
her.

Then he went to the back door, and called, "Baa-a, Baa-a!" but she did
not come.

Where could she be?

After a long time she came running into the yard.

Fleecy trotted up to her.

"Baa-a, Baa-a!" he said; which meant, I think, "Where have you been,
Mary?"

"I have been to school," said Mary.

You see she knew what he meant.

"To school," thought Fleecy. "I wonder what that is."

Everyday Mary went away and left him.

Did I say every day?

Once in a while she stayed at home.

Then Mary and the lamb played together in the yard.

"Now," thought Fleecy, "she is going to stay at home with me."

But no, on Monday Mary went away again.

At last Fleecy could bear it no longer.

"I must go to school, too," he said.

"I must see what Mary does all day.

"If she goes to school to play games, I can play with her."

The next day Fleecy watched Mary go through the gate.

Then he followed her very quietly.

Mary ran along with the other little girls and boys.

They were playing tag and they did not see Fleecy.

Soon he heard a bell ring.

Then how the children ran!

They all ran into a little house and shut the door.

"Oh!" thought Fleecy, "What shall I do? I can never open that door."

Just then he saw a little boy running very fast.

The boy ran up to the same little house.

He opened the door and went in, but he did not shut it.

Fleecy climbed up the steps.

He put his head in at the door and looked around.

He could see no one, so he walked in.

There was another door, and that was open, too.

Fleecy stood still and listened.

The children were singing as if they were very happy.

Then he put his head against the door and pushed it wide open.

What a room-full of children he saw!

And they were all sitting very still, and not playing at all.

"I don't think I shall like school," thought Fleecy.

Just then the children saw him.

How they did laugh to see a lamb at school!

The moment Fleecy saw Mary he ran up to her.

[Illustration]

The children laughed and laughed.

The teacher laughed, too.

Of course the lamb could not stay in school all the morning.

The children could not work because they liked to watch him.

So Mary put him out and shut the door.

But Fleecy nibbled some sweet clover and waited for Mary.

When the children came out he trotted home with them.

After that day Fleecy often went to school with the children.

But he never went in again.

I think he liked clover better than books.


  Little Bo-peep has lost her sheep,
    And can't tell where to find them;
  Leave them alone, and they'll come home,
    And bring their tails behind them.

  Little Bo-peep fell fast asleep,
    And dreamed she heard them bleating;
  But when she awoke she found it a joke,
    For they were still a-fleeting.

  Then up she took her little crook,
    Determined for to find them;
  She found them, indeed, but it made her heart bleed,
    For they'd left their tails behind them.


LITTLE BO-PEEP


Alice is seven years old to-day.

She is going to have a birthday party.

Alice's aunt wrote the invitations, and Alice gave them to all her
little school friends.

The invitation said:--

"Little Bo-peep is to have a birthday party. She would like to have you
come and help her take care of her sheep. Please come Friday afternoon
after school."

Of course the children asked Alice about her party.

"Are you little Bo-peep?" they said.

"Have you lost your sheep?

"Are we going to help you find them?"

"No," said Alice, "But my sheep have lost their tails, I think.

"You'll know all about it on Friday."

At last it was Friday afternoon.

The children came to school all dressed for the party.

It was very hard to wait.

How slowly the clock ticked!

Two o'clock! Three o'clock! Four o'clock, at last!

The children ran almost all the way to Alice's house.

When they were all ready Alice put on a tall cap.

Then she took a long crook and stood in the middle of the floor.

As she called the names of the children they stood in a line behind
her.

Then they began to march and sing:

 "Little Bo-peep has lost her sheep,
    And can't tell where to find them;
  Let them alone, and they'll come home,
    And bring their tails behind them."

The children marched around the room, and through the hall into the
dining-room.

There they saw a big green curtain, and there they found the sheep.

"She found them, indeed, but it made her heart bleed,
For they'd left their tails behind them."

Sure enough! There was a sheep on the curtain, but it had no tail.

There were some tails in a box on the table.

Bo-peep's mother gave one of them to each of the children.

"Now," said Bo-peep, "I will try first to pin a tail on the sheep."

So her mother tied a handkerchief over her eyes, turned her around
three times, and said, "Go."

Bo-peep started off bravely, and pinned the tail to her mother's apron!

How the children laughed! and Bo-peep laughed too, when she saw what
she had done.

Boy Blue was sure he could pin a tail on the sheep.

But he pinned it right on the corner of the table cloth.

Then it was Mary's turn. She shut her eyes tight and walked very
straight.

She was going to pin the tail in just the right place.

All the children stood still and watched her cross the room.

She pinned on the tail, and how they all shouted!

She had put it into the sheep's mouth.

But she did better than any one else.

So Bo-peep's mother gave her a little woolly lamb to take home to her
baby brother.

All the children had a good time at the party.

They played games and ate ice-cream and cake and candy.

Then they sang songs, and Alice's mother told them some stories.

Last of all they sang "Little Bo-peep" again.

And to this day they call Alice "Little
Bo-peep."

[Illustration: "All the children had a good time at the party."]


  Hickory, dickory, dock!
  The mouse ran up the clock.
    The clock struck one
    And down he run.
  Hickory, dickory, dock!


HICKORY, DICKORY, DOCK


It was very quiet all over the house.

Little Boy Blue was fast asleep, dreaming of Santa Claus.

Boy Blue's father and mother were asleep, too, but I don't know what
they were dreaming about.

"Not a creature was stirring, not even a mouse."

Hark! Was that a mouse? Yes, I think it was.

Some one was awake after all.

Mr. and Mrs. Mouse lived in a hole in the pantry wall.

They were talking quite loud now.

"Yes, we must move right away," Mrs. Mouse was saying.

"This nest is not large enough for six."

"That is true," said Mr. Mouse. "I can't get my tail in now, and when
the babies grow, it will be still worse."

"But where shall we go?" said Mrs. Mouse.

"I will go house-hunting this very night, my dear."

"Be sure you find a large house, where the cat can't find us."

"Yes, indeed!" said Mr. Mouse. Then he whisked through a little hole
and went away.

"Be careful, dear," called Mrs. Mouse, and she peeped through the hole
and watched him out of sight.

Mr. Mouse ran across the kitchen floor into the dining-room.

It was very still!

Then he ran into the hall.

"This is too far from the kitchen," he thought.

"I am afraid the babies would have to go to bed hungry in here."

Then he went back into the dining-room.

"This would be a good place for us," he thought.

He looked all around the room.

Where could he find a home?

It must be high up out of the reach of Pussy Cat, and big enough for
Mrs. Mouse and her four babies.

What was that in the corner?

It was like a box, only very, very tall.

Mr. Mouse certainly did not know what it was, but I will tell you.

It was Boy Blue's grandfather's clock.

It had stood in that corner a long, long time, but Mr. Mouse had never
seen it before.

"I think I could make a good nest on top of that box," he thought.

"Pussy Cat could not get up there, I know."

So Mr. Mouse began to run up the clock.

He heard it ticking very loudly.

"Tick-tock! Tick-tock!" it was saying.

"I wonder what that noise is," he said to himself.

"I hope it doesn't make that noise in the day-time.

"It might keep the babies awake."

He climbed a little higher, looking this way and that.

"I think Mrs. Mouse will like this," he thought.

Just then the clock struck one.

How Mr. Mouse trembled!

He nearly fell off the clock, he was so frightened.

He took one jump down to the floor, and then he ran.

Oh, how he ran! Across the dining-room, across the kitchen, across the
pantry, and into his hole he ran!

"Oh, my dear, my dear! what is the matter?" cried his wife. "Did you
see the dog? Was the cat chasing you?"

"No, no!" panted Mr. Mouse.

"I was hunting for a house, and I climbed up on a tall box.

"Just as I had found the very place for us, there was an awful noise
inside the box."

"That was a clock, my dear," said his wife.

"It tells Boy Blue's mother when to have dinner, and when to put the
baby to bed.

"I have heard her telling Boy Blue about it."

"I think it was telling me it was time to go home," said Mr. Mouse, and
they both laughed softly so as not to wake up the babies.

The next night Mr. Mouse went house hunting in the barn.

There he found a very good home in a box of grain.


  Mistress Mary, quite contrary,
    How does your garden grow?
  With silver bells, and cockle shells,
    And pretty maids all in a row.


MISTRESS MARY


Once upon a time there was a little girl named Mary.

She had no brothers and sisters, but she had a dear, good father and
mother.

Mary always went to school with her little friends.

She played with them after school and on Saturdays.

One Saturday in winter all the children went coasting down the long
hill near the school-house.

Mary took her new red sled and went with them.

Oh, it was such fun to coast down that long hill!

The children ran and laughed and shouted all the way.

They had not been coasting long when Mary fell off her sled right into
a snow bank.

That was fun, too, and Mary didn't care one bit.

But when she tried to stand up, it hurt her so it made tears come into
her brown eyes.

"Are you hurt very much?" asked Little Boy Blue.

"My foot hurts," said Mary, trying not to cry.

"We'll give you a ride home," said Jack Horner.

So Mary sat on her sled, and Boy Blue and Jack Horner played they were
her horses.

They trotted so fast that Mary was soon at home and in her mother's
arms.

When the doctor saw Mary's foot he shook his head.

"This little girl has sprained her foot," he said.

"She will have to stay in the house for some time."

I am afraid Mary cried when the doctor said this.

5. How can rivalry be made an asset in teaching?

6. How can the fighting instinct in children best be directed?

7. Why is biography so valuable in material for teaching?

8.

Why is it so essential that we put responsibility upon boys and
girls?

How should this fact affect teaching?

9. What are the dangers that attend an attempt to keep children quiet
for any length of time?

HELPFUL REFERENCES

Those listed in Chapter VII.

CHAPTER IX
INDIVIDUAL DIFFERENCES 
OUTLINE--CHAPTER IX
Fundamental significance of individual differences.

--Typical illustration.

--The truth illustrated physically; in range of voice, in speed,
in mental capabilities.

--The same truth applied spiritually.--Some cases in point.

Everybody is like everybody else in this--that everybody is different
from everybody else.

Having discussed how all men enjoy a common heritage by way of
native endowments, let us now turn to a consideration of how men
differ.

Two of the terms most frequently met in recent educational publications
are statistical methods and individual differences.

 There is nothing particularly
    new in this latter term--it
  merely represents a new emphasis being
    given to the old idea that no two of us are alike.

Every parent is aware of the very marked differences in his children.

Even twins differ in disposition and mental capabilities.

In fact, one of the difficulties that attaches to parenthood is
just this problem of making provision in one household for such
various personalities.

A member of the stake presidency in one of the stakes in southern
Utah, in discussing this matter a short time ago, remarked that in
his family of four boys one very definitely had decided to become
a farmer and was already busy at getting acquainted with the details
of the work; a second boy was devoted to music and voiced a very
vigorous protest against farming; the third son was so bashful and
reticent that he hadn't given expression to any notion of preference;
the fourth, a happy-go-lucky sort of chap, free and noisy in his
cutting up about the place, wasn't worrying about what he was to
do in life--he just didn't want anything to do with strenuous
effort.

"How can I drive a four-horse team such as that?"

was the interesting query of this father.

Practically every family presents this variety of attitude and practically
every parent is trying to work out a solution to the problem, so
there is nothing startling about the term individual differences.

Educators have just given the matter more careful and scholarly attention
of recent years.

If the matter of differences in children constitutes a problem of
concern in a family of from two to ten children, how much greater
must that problem be in a class from thirty to fifty with approximately
as many families represented.

The problem has led to some very interesting investigations--investigations
so simple that they can be carried on by anyone interested.

For instance, if we could line up all the men in Salt Lake City
according to size we should find at one end of the line a few
exceptionally tall men, likely from six feet to six feet six inches
in height.

At the other end of the line would be a few exceptionally small
men--undersized men from three feet eight or ten inches to four
feet six inches.

In between these two types would come in graduated order all sorts
of men with a decidedly large number standing about five feet six
or eight inches.

This latter height we call the average.

Practically we see the significance of these differences.

No manufacturer thinks of making one size of overall in the hope that
it will fit each of these men.

He adapts his garment to their size, and he knows approximately how many
of each size will be called for in the course of ordinary business.

If these same men could be taken one by one into a music studio and
have their voices tested for range, the same interesting variations
would be found.

There would be a few very high tenors, a few exceptionally low bassos,
and a crowd with medium range with fillers-in all along the line.

If we were interested in carrying the experiment still further we
might apply the speed test.

In a 100-yard dash a few men would be found to be particularly fast,
a few others would trail away behind at a snail's pace, while the
big crowd of men would make the distance in "average time."

Of course, it would be foolish to attempt to make tenors of all
these men--equally foolish to try to make speeders of them all.

  In these practical
    matters we appreciate
  the wisdom of letting
    each man fit into that
  niche for which he is qualified.
  

Nor are these differences confined to the field of physical
characteristics and achievements.

Tests by the hundred have demonstrated beyond all question that
they hold equally well of mental capabilities.

In the past children have gone to school at the age of six. They have
remained there because they were six.

At seven they were in grade two, and so on up through the grades
of our public schools.

Tests and measurements now, however, are showing that such a procedure
works both a hardship and an injustice on the pupils.

Some boys at six are found as capable of doing work in grade two as
other boys at eight.

Some boys and girls at six are found wholly incapable of doing what
is required in grade one.

One of the most promising prospects ahead educationally is that we shall
be able to find out just the capacity of a child regardless of his
age, and fit him into what he can do well, making provisions for
his passing on as he shows capability for higher work.

Not only has this matter of individual differences been found to
apply generally in the various grades of our schools--it has been
found to have significant bearing upon achievements in particular
subjects.

For all too long a time we have held a boy in grade four until he
mastered what we have called his grade four arithmetic, spelling,
geography, grammar, history, etc.

As a matter of fact, many a boy who is a fourth-grader in grammar
may be only a second-grader in arithmetic--a girl, for whom fourth
grade arithmetic is an impossibility, because of her special liking
for reading, may be seventh grade in her capacity in that subject.

In the specific subjects, individual differences have been found to
be most marked.

Surely it is unfair to ask a boy "born short" in history to keep
up to the pace of a comrade "born long" in that subject; so, too,
it is unfair to ask a girl "born long" in geography to hold back
to the pace of one "born short" in that subject.

The results of these observations are leading to developments that are
full of promise for the educational interests of the future.

In order that we may more fully appreciate the reality of these
observations let us set down the concrete results of a few
experiments.

The first three tests are quoted from Thorndike:

In a test in addition, all pupils being allowed the same time,
1 pupil did 3 examples correctly 2 pupils did 4 examples correctly
1 pupil did 5 examples correctly 5 pupils did 6 examples correctly
2 pupils did 7 examples correctly 4 pupils did 8 examples correctly
6 pupils did 9 examples correctly 14 pupils did 10 examples correctly
8 pupils did 11 examples correctly 7 pupils did 12 examples correctly
8 pupils did 13 examples correctly 5 pupils did 14 examples correctly
5 pupils did 15 examples correctly 6 pupils did 16 examples correctly
1 pupil did 17 examples correctly 5 pupils did 18 examples correctly
1 pupil did 19 examples correctly 2 pupils did 20 examples correctly

The rapidity of movement of ten-year-old girls, as measured by the
number of crosses made in a fixed time:
6 or 7 by 1 girl 8 or 9 by 0 girl 10 or 11 by 4 girls 12 or 13 by
3 girls 14 or 15 by 21 girls 16 or 17 by 29 girls 18 or 19 by 33
girls 20 or 21 by 13 girls 22 or 23 by 15 girls 24 or 25 by 11 girls
26 or 27 by 5 girls 28 or 29 by 2 girls 30 or 31 by 5 girls 32 or
33 by 3 girls 34 or 35 by 5 girls 36 or 37 by 0 girl 38 or 49 by 4
girls 40 or 41 by 1 girl
Two papers, A and B, written by members of the same grade and class
in a test in spelling:

A.

B.

greatful gratful elegant eleagent present present patience paisionce
succeed suckseed severe survere accident axadent sometimes sometimes
sensible sensible business biusness answer anser sweeping sweping
properly prooling improvement improvment fatiguing fegting anxious
anxchus appreciate apresheating assure ashure imagine amagen praise
prasy
In a test in spelling wherein fifty common words were dictated to
a class of twenty-eight pupils, the following results were obtained:
2 spelled correctly all 50 3 spelled correctly between 45 and 48 5
spelled correctly between 40 and 45 11 spelled correctly between
30 and 40 6 spelled correctly between 20 and 30 1 spelled correctly
between 15 and 20
And now the question--what has all this to do with the teaching of
religion?

Just this: the differences among men as found in fields already referred
to, are found also in matters of religion.

For one man it is easy to believe in visions and all other heavenly
manifestations; for another it is next to impossible.

To one man the resurrection is the one great reality; to another
it is merely a matter of conjecture.

One man feels certain that his prayers are heard and answered;
another feels equally certain that they cannot be.

One man is emotionally spiritual; another is coldly hard-headed and
matter-of-fact.

The point is not a question which man is right--it is rather that
we ought not to attempt to reach each man in exactly the same way,
nor should we expect each one to measure up to the standards of the
others.

An interesting illustration of this difference in religious
attitude was shown recently in connection with the funeral of a
promising young man who had been taken in death just as he had
fairly launched upon his life's work.

In a discussion that followed the service, one good brother found
consolation in the thought that the Lord needed just such a young
man to help carry on a more important work among the spirits already
called home.

His companion in the discussion found an explanation to his satisfaction
in the thought that it was providential that the young man could
be taken when he was, that he thereby might be spared the probable
catastrophies that might have visited him had he lived.

  Each man found complete
  solace in his own philosophy, though neither could accept the
reasoning of the other.

An interesting case of difference of view came to the attention of
the teacher-training class at Provo when someone asked how the
lesson on Jonah could be presented so that it would appeal to
adolescent boys and girls.

The query was joined in by several others for whom Jonah had been
a stumbling block, when Brother Sainsbury, of Vernal, startled the
class by saying Jonah was his favorite story.

"I would rather teach that story than any other one in the Bible,"
he declared, and illustrated his method so clearly that the account
of Jonah took on an entirely new aspect.

Many men and women in the world are shocked at the thought that God
is a personality.

To them the idea that God is simply a "man made perfect," a being
similar to us, but exalted to deity, is akin to blasphemy.

And then to add the idea of a heavenly mother is beyond comprehension.

To Latter-day Saints, on the other hand, these thoughts are the
very glory of God.

To them a man made perfect is the noblest conception possible.

It makes of Him a reality.

And the thought of Mother--Heaven without a Mother would be like
home without one.

And so with all the principles and conceptions of religion, men's
reactions to them are as varied as they are to all the other facts
of life.

Everywhere the opinions, the capacities, the attainments of men vary.

The law of individual differences is one of the most universal in our
experience

.

* * * * *

QUESTIONS AND SUGGESTIONS--CHAPTER IX
1.

Just what is the meaning of the term Individual Differences?

2.

Illustrate such differences in families with which you are familiar.
3.

Apply the test to your ward choir.

4. Name and characterize twenty men whom you know.

How do they differ?

  
  5. Have a report brought in from
  your public school on the results of
  given tests in arithmetic,
  spelling, etc.
  

6.

Have the members of your class write their opinions relative to some
point of doctrine concerning which there may be some uncertainty.
7.

Observe the attitude and response of each of the members of a typical
Sunday School, Kindergarten, of an advanced M.I.A. class.

8.

Illustrate individual differences as expressed in the religious
attitudes of men you know.

9.

To what extent are boys different from girls in mental capability and
attitude?

HELPFUL REFERENCES

Those listed in Chapter VII.

 CHAPTER X
  INDIVIDUAL DIFFERENCES AND TEACHING
  
  OUTLINE--CHAPTER X
  The causes of individual differences.--Norsworthy
     and Whitley on the significance of parentage.

--The teacher's obligation to know parents.--The influence of
sex.--Environment as a factor.

--Thorndike quoted.--B.H. Jacobsen on individual differences.

So far we simply have made the point that individuals differ.

We are concerned in this chapter in knowing how these differences
affect the teaching process.

Fully to appreciate their significance we must know not only that
they exist, and the degree of their variation, but also the forces
that produce them.

On the side of heredity, race, family, and sex, are the great modifying
factors.

Practically, of course, we are concerned very little as Church teachers
with problems of race.

We are all so nearly one in that regard that a discussion of racial
differences would contribute but little to the solution of our
teaching problem.

The matter of family heritage is a problem of very much more immediate
concern.

Someone has happily said: "Really to know a boy one must know fully
his father and his mother."

"Yes," says a commentator, "and he ought to know a deal about the
grandfather and grandmother."

The significance of parentage is made to stand out with clearness
in the following paragraph from Norsworthy and Whitley, _The
Psychology of Childhood_:
"Just as good eyesight and longevity are family characteristics,
so also color blindness, left-handedness, some slight peculiarity
of structure such as an extra finger or toe, or the Hapsburg lip,
sense defects such as deafness or blindness, tendencies to certain
diseases, especially those of the nervous system,--all these run
in families.

Certain mental traits likewise are obviously handed down from parents
to child, such as strong will, memory for faces, musical imagination,
abilities in mathematics or the languages, artistic talent.

In these ways and many others children resemble their parents.

The same general law holds of likes and dislikes, of temperamental
qualities such as quick temper, vivacity, lovableness, moodiness.

In all traits, characteristics, features, powers both physical and
mental and to some extent moral also, children's original nature,
their stock in trade, is determined by their immediate ancestry.

'We inherit our parents' tempers, our parents' conscientiousness,
shyness and ability, as we inherit their stature, forearm and span,'
says Pearson."

The teacher who would really appreciate the feelings and responses
of a boy in his class must be aware, therefore, that the boy is not
merely one of a dozen type individuals--he is a product of a
particular parentage, acting as he does largely because "he was
born that way."

We shall point out in connection with environmental influences the
importance of a teacher's knowing the home condition of his pupils;
but it is important here, in passing, to emphasize the point that
even though a child were never to live with its parents it could
be understood by the teacher acquainted with the peculiar traits
of those parents.

"Born with a bent" is a proverb of such force that it cannot be ignored.
To know the parental heritage of a boy is to anticipate his reaction
to stimuli--is to know what approach to make to win him.

Because of the fact that in many of our organizations we are concerned
with the problem of teaching boys and girls together, the question
of the influence of sex is one which we must face.

There are those who hold that boys and girls are so fundamentally
different by nature that they ought not to be taught coeducationally.

Others maintain that they are essentially alike in feeling and
intellectuality, and that because of the fact that eventually they
are to be mated in the great partnership of life they should be
held together as much as possible during the younger years of their
lives.

Most authorities are agreed that boys and girls differ not so much
because they are possessed of different native tendencies, but
because they live differently--they follow different lines of
activity, and therefore develop different interests.

To quote again from Norsworthy and Whitley:

"That men and women are different, that their natures are not the same,
has long been an accepted fact.

Out of this fact of difference have grown many hot discussions as
to the superiority of one or the other nature as a whole.

The present point of view of scientists seems well expressed by
Ellis when he says, 'We may regard all such discussions as absolutely
futile and foolish.

If it is a question of determining the existence and significance
of some particular physical sexual difference, a conclusion may not
be impossible.

To make any broad statement of the phenomena is to recognize that
no general conclusion is possible.

Now and again we come across facts which group themselves with a
certain uniformity, but as we continue, we find other equally
important facts which group themselves with equal uniformity in
another sense.

The result produces compensation.'

The question of interest then is, what in nature is peculiar to the
male sex and what to the female?

What traits will be true of a boy, merely because he is a boy, and
vice versa?

This has been an extremely difficult question to answer, because of the
difficulty encountered in trying to eliminate the influence of
environment and training.

Boys are what they are because of their original nature plus their
surroundings.

Some would claim that if we could give boys and girls the same
surroundings, the same social requirements, the same treatment from
babyhood, there would be no difference in the resulting natures.

Training undoubtedly accentuates inborn sex differences, and it is true
that a reversal of training does lessen this difference; however,
the weight of opinion at present is that differences in intellect
and character do exist because of differences of sex, but that these
have been unduly magnified.

H.B.

Thompson, in her investigation entitled _The Mental Traits of Sex_,
finds that 'Motor ability in most of its forms is better developed
in men than in women.

In strength, rapidity of movement, and rate of fatigue, they have
a very decided advantage, and in precision of movement a slight
advantage....

The thresholds are on the whole lower in women, discriminative
sensibility is on the whole better in men....

All these differences, however, are slight.

As for the intellectual faculties, women are decidedly superior to men
in memory, and possibly more rapid in associative thinking.

Men are probably superior in ingenuity.... The data on the life of
feeling indicate that there is little, if any, sexual difference
in the degree of domination by emotion, and that social consciousness
is more prominent in men, and religious consciousness in women.'

"Pearson, in his measurement of traits, not by objective tests but
by opinions of people who know the individual, finds that boys are
more athletic, noisy, self-assertive, self-conscious; less popular,
duller in conscience, quicker-tempered, less sullen, a little duller
intellectually and less efficient in penmanship.

Heymans and Wiersma, following the same general method as Pearson,
state as their general conclusions that the female is more active,
more emotional, and more unselfish than the male.

'They consider women to be more impulsive, less efficient intellectually,
and more fickle than men as a result of the first two differences
mentioned above; to be gifted in music, acting, conversation and
the invention of stories, as a result in part of the second difference;
and to think well of people and to be easily reconciled to them as
a result of the third.'

Thorndike finds the chief differences to be that the female varies
less from the average standard, is more observant of small visual
details, less often color-blind, less interested in things and their
mechanisms, more interested in people and their feelings, less given
to pursuing, capturing and maltreating living things, and more given
to nursing, comforting and relieving them than is the male.

H. Ellis considers the chief differences to be the less tendency
to variability, the greater affectability, and the greater
primitiveness of the female mind, and the less ability shown by
women in dealing with the more remote and abstract interests in life.

  All the authors
    emphasize the
      smallness of the
  differences;
    and after all the
      striking thing is not the differences between the sexes, but the
great difference within the same sex in respect to every mental
trait tested.

The difference of man from man, and woman from woman, in any trait
is almost as great as the differences between the sexes in that
trait.

Sex can be the cause, then, of only a fraction of the difference
between the original nature of individuals."

It is reasonably certain, then, that a teacher may safely appeal
to both boys and girls on the ground of the fundamental instincts,
feeling confident that common stimuli will produce largely the same
results.

Important as it is that we know what our pupils are from their
parentage, it is even more important in the matter of religious
instruction that we shall appreciate the force of the varieties of
environment that have been operative.

Though boys and girls may be essentially alike at the outset of
their lives they may be thrown into such associations as to make
their ideals and conduct entirely different.

Fancy the contrast between the case of a girl brought up for fifteen
years in a household of refinement and in a companionship of
gentility, and the case of a boy who during the same years has been
the pal of bullies on street corners.

Surely stimuli that are to promote proper reaction in these two
cases will have to be suited to the person in question.

Then, too, the teacher must realize that one child may come from a
home of faith, confidence, and contentment; whereas, another may
come from a home of agitation, doubt, and suspicion.

One may have been taught to pray--another may have been led to disbelieve.
One may have been stimulated to read over sacred books--another
may have been left to peruse cheap, sensational detective stories.

To succeed in reaching the hearts of a group of such boys and girls,
a teacher surely ought to be aware of individual differences and
ought to be fortified with a wealth of material so that the appeal
may be as varied as possible.

To quote from Thorndike's _Principles of Education_:

"A teacher has to choose what is for the greatest good of the
greatest number.

He cannot expect to drive forty children abreast along the highroad of
education."

"Yet the differences in children should not blind us to their
likenesses."

She told Mr. Horne to wish all the children who sent the shoe a very,
very happy Christmas.

"And tell them," she said, "to come and see 'the Old Woman in the Shoe'
and her children!"


  Little Miss Muffet
  Sat on a tuffet,
    Eating her curds and whey;
  There came a big spider
  And sat down beside her,
    And frightened Miss Muffet away.


MISS MUFFET


It was the Christmas vacation and Boy Blue and Mary were at home every
day.

Boy Blue wished to go to his own home on the farm in his vacation.

He wished to see his father and mother, and little sister, and
fire-cracker, and his eight Snowballs.

But one night he had a letter from his mother.

Of course he could read it himself, because he was seven years old and
had been to school two years.

When he read the letter he danced up and down for joy.

He danced right through the hall into the dining-room and showed his
letter to Mary.

Then she danced, too, because the letter said that Boy Blue's father
and mother were coming to see him the very next day.

And, best of all, Little Sister was coming to stay two weeks.

When it was time to go to the station to meet Little Sister and her
mother. Boy Blue could hardly wait for the train.

At last it came, bringing the two dearest people in all the world, and
Boy Blue laughed, and cried, and asked questions, all in the same
minute.

"Where is Papa?

"Is he coming to-morrow?

"How is Fire-cracker?

"Are you going to stay two weeks?"

"Wait, wait, children!" said Mrs. Snow, "ask one question at a time."

They rode to Mary's house in a car, and all these questions and many
others were asked and answered.

It was the night before Christmas and the children were going to hang
up their stockings.

"Hang them by the chimney in your playroom," said Mary's mother. "Then
Santa Claus won't have far to go."

So the children ran up to the playroom with their stockings.

"Oh, look!" said Boy Blue. "Sister's stocking is so small that Santa
Claus can't get even a rag doll into it."

Mary found a basket for Little Sister.

"You can put this right under your stocking, dear," she said.

"I will write a letter to Santa Claus and tell him where to put your
presents."

So she wrote this letter and pinned it on the toe of the tiny stocking:

"Dear Santa Claus:--Little Sister's stocking is so small I have given
her a basket. Please put her presents in it."

Santa Claus must have read the note, for the next morning the basket
was full.

There was a basket under each of the other stockings, too.

On each one was a note, saying:--

"Your stockings were not large enough. I had to get a basket for you,
too."

                                                    SANTA CLAUS.


In Boy Blue's basket there were a horn and a drum, a box of tin
soldiers, and three books. Under the basket was a new red sled.

Mary found two dolls and a trunk full of dresses for them, a toy
kitchen, and a writing desk in her basket.

Little Sister sat on the floor and began to take the presents out of
her basket, one at a time.

First, there was a big wax doll in a doll carriage.

It was such a pretty doll, with a blue coat and white hood, all ready
to take out to ride!

Then there were some picture books and another doll,--a big one that
could open and shut her eyes.

[Illustration]

But what was this in the bottom of the basket? It was very soft and
white and had curly hair.

Little Sister picked it up carefully. "Put it on your head," said Boy
Blue. So Sister put it on. It was a fur cap.

Then she found a fur collar, and last of all, a dear little fur muff.

When she had them all on, she ran up to her mother.

"See my muff, Mamma!" she cried.

Then she ran to every one, saying:--"Muff! Muff! See my little muff!"

"What a dear little Miss Muffet you are!" said Uncle Jack.

"Oh." said Boy Blue, "we shall call you 'Miss Muffet'!"

"Merry Christmas, Miss Muffet!"


  Humpty Dumpty sat on a wall;
  Humpty Dumpty had a great fall;
    All the king's horses,
    And all the king's men,
  Couldn't put Humpty Dumpty together again.


HUMPTY DUMPTY


Tommy Tucker had lived on the farm with Grandma and Grandpa Hall a long
time.

He and Rags were very happy in their new home.

Rags was getting fat now, and every Saturday he had a fine bath.

At least Tommy said it was a fine bath, but Rags did not seem to agree
with him.

"Bow-wow," he would say, when he saw the big tub full of water, "I must
run and hide."

But Tommy always found him, and Rags always had his bath.

When school began in September, Grandma Hall took Tommy to school.

He had a new suit of clothes, a new pair of boots, and a pretty cap to
match his suit.

The school was two miles from the farm, so that the first morning he
rode in the carriage with Grandma Hall because she could not walk so
far.

Every day after that Tommy walked to school in the morning and home
again at night.

He carried his dinner in a new pail, and he always found something very
good in that pail when he opened it at noon.

All the rest of the children brought their dinner, too, and if I should
tell you all the things those children did at noon, it would fill a
book.

When the nuts were ripe, they went into the woods and gathered big
baskets full.

They found pretty flowers and autumn leaves and made their school-room
bright with them.

They played ball, and hide and seek.

Oh, there were such beautiful places to hide,--behind the wood-pile, in
the wood-box, behind trees and fences, and in the woods!

Tommy had never had such a good time in his life.

He did not play all the time, because he was working very hard to catch
up with the other boys.

Before the winter was over he was in the class with Jack and Jill, and
Grandma said she was very proud of him.

But I must tell you of the Jack-o'-lanterns the children made for
Hallowe'en.

Tommy did not know much about Hallowe'en, for he had always lived in
the city.

He had seen boys make Jack-o'-lanterns out of paper boxes.

But he had never seen a real pumpkin Jack-o'-lantern in his life.

One day, near the last of October, the children were all talking about
Hallowe'en and the fun they would have with their lanterns.

"You'll make one, won't you, Tommy?" said Jack.

Of course Tommy wanted to make one if the boys would show him how.

"I know what would be fun," said

Jill. "Let's bring our pumpkins to school and make our lanterns at
noon."

"Yes, yes, that is just the thing!" they shouted.

"Then when they are finished we can ask Miss Phillips which is the
prettiest."

As if a Jack-o'-lantern could ever be pretty!

The next morning there was a funny sight in the dressing-room.

Under each hook was a pumpkin.

There were big ones, little ones, fat ones, long ones, short ones,
yellow ones, and green ones.

In fact, no two pumpkins were alike, except of course, Jack's and
Jill's.

"It will never do for us to have ours different," said Jill.

So they hunted a long time to find two that were just alike.

Tommy tried very hard to think of his arithmetic and geography and
spelling that morning.

But he couldn't help thinking of his pumpkin, which was waiting to be
made into a Jack-o'-lantern.

At last it was noon.

I am afraid the children did not care what they had for dinner that
noon, and they ate very fast.

They needed all the time they could get for their Jack-o'-lanterns.

First, they cut off the top of the pumpkin, and cut out all the seeds.
Then came the fun of making the lantern's face.

He must have two eyes, a nose, a mouth, and two ears.

Jack cut two round holes for eyes.

A long cut in the middle was the nose.

The mouth curved up at both ends, and the holes at the sides were ears.

Some of the lanterns had two very good rows of teeth.

Tom's pumpkin was long and narrow. He said it looked so much like a big
egg that he was going to name it "Humpty Dumpty."

"Oh, let's all name our lanterns!" said the children.

"Mine is so round I shall call it 'Tubby'," said Jack.

Then Jill named hers "Bubby."

One of the boys named his "Green Top," and another was "Big Eyes."

Just as the bell rang for school the last one was finished.

How Miss Phillips laughed when the children marched in, each one
carrying a funny Jack-o'-lantern!

She said she could not tell which one was the prettiest.

After she had been introduced to each one they were put into the hall
to wait for school to be over.

Hallowe'en night every lantern had a candle in it, and the children had
great fun trying to frighten their mothers and fathers and each other.

Of course Grandpa Hall jumped and ran when he saw a big bright face
coming at him from the barn.

Then Grandma Hall saw it in the woodshed, and she ran and hid behind
the kitchen door.

Tommy played with Humpty Dumpty for several days.

Saturday morning he was in the meadow playing with Humpty Dumpty when
Jack and Jill came to ask him to go with them to the woods.

Tommy put Humpty Dumpty up on the stone wall and ran off with the
twins.

Grandpa Hall's old white cow was in the meadow eating grass.

As she came near the wall she saw something that looked very much like
a pumpkin.

Mrs. Cow was fond of pumpkins, so she thought she would go and see what
it really was on the wall.

"Why, it surely is a pumpkin," said Mrs. Cow, "but I wonder what all
those holes are for."

Humpty Dumpty felt very much hurt to think that Mrs. Cow should speak
of his eyes and mouth as holes.

"But then, of course," thought Humpty, "she does not know that I am not
a pumpkin now."

Mrs. Cow kept putting her nose nearer and nearer to Humpty.

At last she got so near that she made him jump.

At least, I think he must have jumped, for he fell from the wall to the
ground.

When Mrs. Cow saw the pumpkin all broken in pieces she thought she
might as well eat it, and she did.

[Illustration]

At first she liked the pumpkin very much, but then she thought it
didn't taste just right.

"I don't believe pumpkins with big round holes in them are good to
eat," said Mrs. Cow.

But when Tommy found what had happened to Humpty Dumpty, he said to
Grandpa Hall, "I wonder which Mrs. Cow liked best, the Jack-o'-lantern
or the candle!"

The children in Miss Smith's room had been just as busy as bees all
day.

Now they were tired, and they could not work any more.

Mary put her head down on her desk and nearly went to sleep.

Most of the boys were looking out of the window, because they liked to
watch it snow.

It had been snowing hard all day and they were thinking of the
snowballs they would make, and of the snow forts that they would build
on the hill.

How could they study when they were thinking of all those things?

"Miss Smith," said Bo-peep, looking up from her work, "won't you please
tell us a story? It is getting so dark that I cannot see to write."

Miss Smith thought a minute and then said, "How would you like to play
at being a book?"

Every little face brightened. The boys looked at Miss Smith and forgot
about the snow forts.

Mary sat up and did not feel one bit sleepy.

"Why, Miss Smith," said Mary, "how can we be a book?"

"I will show you," said Miss Smith.

"We will play that we are the Mother Goose Book.

"You must each think of some child from Mother Goose land whom you
would like to be.

"Then each one can come to the front of the room and play at being that
little child.

"The rest of us will try to guess who the child is."

The children all thought that would be great fun, and for a few minutes
it was so quiet they could almost hear the snow falling.

At the end of five minutes Miss Smith said, "Now it is time to begin.
You may be on the first page in our book, Jack.

"You may use anything in the room you need to help you in acting your
part."

Jack went into the hall. In a minute he pushed the door open a little
way and looked in.

Then he came into the school-room. He had his books under his arm, and
as he came in very slowly he looked at the clock.

"Oh, I know!" said John. "Hickory, dickory, dock."

O let us drift, Frail as the floating silver of a star, Or like
the summer humming of a bee, Or stream-reflected sunlight through
a rift.

I will not hope, because I know, alas, Morning will glide, and noon,
and then the night Will take thee from me.

  Everything must pass
  Swiftly--but nought so
  swift as dawn-delight.
  If I could hold thee till the day,
  Is broad on sea and hill, Child of repose, What god can say, What
god or mortal knows, What dream thou mightest not in me fulfil?

She looked so funny that all the children laughed.

At last Edith stopped laughing and began to sing:

 "Old woman, old woman,
  Old woman, said I.
  Oh whither, oh whither,
  Oh whither so high?
  To sweep the cobwebs out of the sky;
  But I'll be back again by-and-by."

Yes, Edith had guessed right, so she ran out of the room.

When she came back the children all looked and looked.

Who could she be?

She hadn't changed herself one bit, and she only stood still and looked
at them.

"We are caught this time," laughed Miss Smith.

Just then a little girl in the back of the room jumped up and said:
"Oh, see the curl in the middle of her forehead! said a crack speaker with a wry nose.

 "Nor men of business either,"
  added the chairman of a
  committee, with a face like a
  kangaroo's.
  
  "Poor devil!" said the civilest of the set.

"He's a deuced deal too handsome for a speaker! By Jove, he is going
to speak again--this will never do; we must cough him down!"

And Mr. Ferdinand Fitzroy was accordingly coughed down.

Our hero was now seven or eight and twenty, handsomer than ever,
and the adoration of the young ladies at Almack's.

"We have nothing to leave you," said the parents, who had long spent
their fortune, and now lived on the credit of having once enjoyed it.

--"You are the handsomest man
 in London; you must marry an heiress."

"I will," said Mr. Ferdinand Fitzroy.

It was time to go home!

Every one of the children was sorry not to see all of the book.

"Some day we will play this game again," said Miss Smith. "Then we can
see the rest of the pages."

As they ran home together they were all talking of the new game.

That night they got out their Mother Goose books and read them through,
so that the next time they would be sure to guess every rhyme.