 This accomplished, the animals were left together in one
enclosure to await the issue.

Two days later, June 2d, at the appointed hour of rendezvous, a
vast crowd, composed of veterinary surgeons, newspaper
correspondents, and farmers from far and near, gathered to
witness the closing scenes of this scientific tourney. What they
saw was one of the most dramatic scenes in the history of
peaceful science--a scene which, as Pasteur declared afterwards,
"amazed the assembly."  Scattered about the enclosure, dead,
dying, or manifestly sick unto death, lay the unprotected
animals, one and all, while each and every "protected" animal
stalked unconcernedly about with every appearance of perfect
health. Twenty of the sheep and the one goat were already dead;
two other sheep expired under the eyes of the spectators; the
remaining victims lingered but a few hours longer. Thus in a
manner theatrical enough, not to say tragic, was proclaimed the
unequivocal victory of science. Naturally enough, the unbelievers
struck their colors and surrendered without terms; the principle
of protective vaccination, with a virus experimentally prepared
in the laboratory, was established beyond the reach of
controversy.

That memorable scientific battle marked the beginning of a new
era in medicine.  It was a foregone conclusion that the principle
thus established would be still further generalized; that it
would be applied to human maladies; that in all probability it
would grapple successfully, sooner or later, with many infectious
diseases. That expectation has advanced rapidly towards
realization. Pasteur himself made the application to the human
subject in the disease hydrophobia in 1885, since which time that
hitherto most fatal of maladies has largely lost its terrors. 
Thousands of persons bitten by mad dogs have been snatched from
the fatal consequences of that mishap by this method at the
Pasteur Institute in Paris, and at the similar institutes, built
on the model of this parent one, that have been established all
over the world in regions as widely separated as New York and
Nha-Trang.


SERUM-THERAPY

In the production of the rabies vaccine Pasteur and his
associates developed a method of attenuation of a virus quite
different from that which had been employed in the case of the
vaccines of chicken cholera and of anthrax. The rabies virus was
inoculated into the system of guinea-pigs or rabbits and, in
effect, cultivated in the systems of these animals. 

* * * * *
"This upset Mr. Chesterton, a patriotic, beer-eating
Englishman."--_Sunday Paper_.

We deplore the modern tendency to pry into the details of an
author's dietary.

* * * * *
"What the word 'Democracy' was intended to mean was that every man
should have to betrTcOshrdluesthafaodfabadofgarfaf." _Local
Paper_.


We have long suspected this.

* * * * *
"MILWAUKEE.--Fourteen cases of whiskey, a large quantity of brandies,
gin and wines were found stored in a bathhouse. It will
be presented to the federal grand jury for action." _Canadian
Paper_.

Not the obvious form of "direct action," we trust.

* * * * *
=HOW TO VITALISE THE DRAMA.=
_A hint of what might be done by following the example of the
Press_.

["More than one actor-manager during the past few months has
been searching round frantically in his efforts to find a new
play." _The Times_.]
Oh, have you marked upon the breeze The wail of hunger which occurs
When starved

theatrical lessees Commune with hollow managers?
"Where is Dramatic Art?" they say; "Can no one, _no one_, write
a play?"
I cannot think why this should be, This bitter plaint of sudden
dearth; To write a play would seem to me Almost the easiest thing
on earth.
Sometimes I feel that even I Could do it if I chose to try.

What! can this Art be in its grave Whose form was lately

so rotund, Whose strength was as a bull's and gave No sign of
being moribund?
I'm sure my facts are right, or how Do you account for _Chu
Chin Chow_?

As for the gods, their judgment shows No loss of _flair_ for grace
or wit; We see the comic's ruby nose Reduce to pulp the nightly
pit, Whose patrons, sound in head and heart, Still love the
loftiest type of Art.

Nor should the playwright fail for lack Of matter, if with curious
eyes He follows in our Pressmen's track, Who find the source
of their

supplies In Life, that ever-flowing font, And "give the
public what they want."
If authors, moving with the times, Would only feed us, like the
Press, On squalid "mysteries," ugly crimes, Scandals and all that
carrion mess, I see no solid reason why Dramatic Art should ever
die.

O. S.


* * * * *
=UNAUTHENTIC IMPRESSIONS.=
II.--MR. WINSTON CHURCHILL.

If it be urged that a few trifling inaccuracies have crept into the
sketch which is here given of a great statesman's

personality I can only say, "_Humanum est errare_," and "_Homo sum:
humani nihil alienum a me puto_." These two Latin sentences, I
find, invariably soothe all angry passions; you have only to try
their effect the next time you stamp on the foot of a stout man
when alighting from an Underground train.

Of all the present-day politicians, and indeed there are not a few,
upon whose mantelpieces the bust of NAPOLEON BONAPARTE is
displayed, Mr. WINSTON CHURCHILL is probably the most assiduous
worshipper at the great Corsican's shrine. How often has he
not entered his sanctum at the War Office, peering forward
with that purposeful dominating look on his face, and discovered
a few specks of dust upon his favourite effigy. With a quick
characteristic motion of the thumb resembling a stab he rings the
bell. A flunkey instantly appears. "Bust that dust," says the WAR
MINISTER.

And then, correcting himself instantly, with a genial smile,
"I should say, Dust that bust."
But NAPOLEON'S is not the only head that adorns Mr. WINSTON
CHURCHILL'S room. On a bookshelf opposite is a model of his
own head, such as one may sometimes see in the shop windows
of hatters,

and close beside is a small private hat-making plant, together
with an adequate supply of the hair of the rabbit, the beaver,
the vicuna and similar rodents, and a quantity of shellac. Few
days pass in which the WAR MINISTER does not spend an hour or
two at his charming hobby, for, contrary to the general opinion,
he is far from satisfied with the headgear by which he
is so well known, or even with the Sandringham hat of _The
Daily Mail_, and lives always in hopes of modelling the ideal hat
which is destined to immortalise him and be worn by others for
centuries to come. The work of



a great statesman lives frequently in the mindful

brain of posterity,

less frequently upon it.

Other mementos which adorn this remarkable room at the War Office
are a porcelain pot containing a preserve of Blenheim oranges, a
framed photograph of the Free Trade Hall at Manchester, a map of
Mesopotamia with the outpost lines and sentry groups of the
original Garden of Eden, marked by paper flags, and a number of
lion-skin rugs of which the original occupants were stalked
and killed by their owner on his famous African tour. In his more
playful moments the WAR MINISTER has been known to clothe himself
completely in one of these skins and growl ferociously from
behind a palm at an unwelcome intruder.

Of the man himself perhaps the most distinguishing characteristic
is dynamic energy. Whether other people's energy is ever dynamic
I do not know, but undoubtedly Mr. WINSTON CHURCHILL'S is;
he dominates, he quells. He is like one of those people in the
papers with zig-zags sticking out all over them because they
have been careful to wear an electric belt. He exudes force.
Sometimes one can almost hear him crackle.

As a politician it is true he has not yet tried every

office; he has not, for instance, been Chancellor of the
Exchequer, though his unbounded success in the Duchy of Lancaster
amply shows what his capabilities as a Chancellor are. But as a
soldier, a pig-sticker and a polo-player he is rapidly
gaining pre-eminence, and as an author and journalist his
voice is already like a swan's amongst screech-owls.
(I admit that that last bit ought to have been in Latin, but I
cannot remember what the Latin for a screech-owl is. I have
an idea that it increases in the genitive, but quite possibly
I may be thinking of dormice.)
Anyhow, to return to Mr. CHURCHILL'S room: whilst the floor is
littered with volumes that have been sent to him for review,
his desk is equally littered with proofs of essays, sermons,
leaders and leaderettes for the secular and Sunday Press. As
a novelist he has scarcely fulfilled his early promise, but it is
on record that he was once introduced to a stranger from the
backwoods, who asked ignorantly, "Am I speaking to the
statesman or the author?"
"Not _or_, but _and_," replied the SECRETARY OF STATE FOR
WAR, with a simple dignity like that of ST. AUGUSTINE.

To poetry he is not greatly attached, preferring to leave this field
of letters to his staff. When asked for his favourite passage of
English verse he has indeed been known to cite a single line
from Mr.
HILAIRE BELLOC'S _Modern Traveller_--

"That marsh, that admirable marsh!"
which is far from being Mr. BELLOC'S most mellifluous effort.

We feel bound to ask what is most likely to be the next outlet
for Mr. CHURCHILL'S ebullient activity. Remembering that bust
upon his mantelpiece it is hard to say. There are some who
consider that, prevented by the sluggishness of our times from
the chance of commanding an army in the field, he may turn his
strategic mind at last to the position of Postmaster-General.
If he does there can be no man better fitted than he to make
our telephones hum.

K.

* * * * *
"A.--Comme vous voudrai.--P."
_Agony Column in

Daily Paper_.

Taking advantage of "P.'s" kindness we may say that we prefer
"_voudrez_."
* * * * *
"A TRUE FISHING STORY.

Lady ---- is surprising everyone with her skill as an angler and
a shot. Last Friday, I am told, she caught two trout weighing
2-3/4 lb. and 3-1/4 lb. And on the same afternoon she got a right
and a left hit at a roebuck with a small four-bore gun!"--_Daily
Paper_.

Not caring to believe that she mistook a roebuck for an elephant,
we are glad to note that the epithet "true" is only applied to the
"fishing" part of the story.

* * * * *
[Illustration: =THE ABYSMALISTS.=
BRITISH EXTREMIST. "WHAT ARE YOU DOING DOWN THERE?"
VOICE OF RUSSIAN BOLSHEVIST FROM BELOW. "DIGGING A GRAVE FOR THE
BOURGEOISIE."
BRITISH EXTREMIST. "THAT'S WHAT I WANT TO DO; BUT HOW DO YOU GET
OUT?"
VOICE FROM BELOW. "YOU DON'T."]
* * * * *
[Illustration: _French Visitor_ (_inspecting artificial silk
stockings_). "SOIE?"
_Shopman_ (_formerly of the B.E.F., resourcefully_). "WELL, SCARCELY,
MADAM; SHALL WE SAY 'SOI-DISANT'?"]
* * * * *

CONTEMPORARY FOLK-SONGS.

"THE GRAVE OF THE BOORZH-WAW-ZE."
[The following folk-song is believed to be a local (and adult)
version of the ballad which, according to _The Times_, is now
being sung by Communist children in the Glasgow Proletarian Schools,
with the refrain:--
"Class-conscious we are singing, Class-conscious all are we, For
Labour now is digging The grave of the Boorzh-waw-ze."
The metre is a bit jumpy, and so are the ideas, but you know
what folk-songs are.]
Look, we are digging a large round hole, _With a Hey and a Ho and
a Hee-haw-hee!_ To put the abominable tyrant in-- The Minister,
the Master, the Mandarin; And never a bloom above shall
blow But scarlet-runners in a row to show _That this is the grave
of the Boorzh-waw-ze, With a Hi-ti-tiddle-i! ... Honk,
honk!_
Who do we put in the large round hole, _With a Hey and a Ho and a


Hee-haw-hee?_ The blackcoat,

the parasite, the keeper of the laws, Who works with his head
instead of with his paws; The doctor, the parson, the pressman, the
mayor, The poet and the barrister, they'll all be there, _Snug
in the grave of the Boorzh-waw-ze, With a Hi-ti-tiddle-i! ... Honk,
honk!_
Dig, dig, dig, it will have to be big, _With a Hey and a Ho
and a Hee-haw-hee!_ One great cavity, and then one more For
the bones of the SECRET'RY OF STATE FOR WAR; The editor, the clerk
and, of course, old THOMAS, We wring their necks and we fling them
from us _Into the grave of the Boorzh-waw-ze, With a Hi-ti-tiddle-i!
... Honk, honk!_
Peace and Brotherhood, that's our line, _With a Hey and a Ho and

a Hee-haw-hee!_ But nobody, of course, can co-exist In the same
small planet with a Communist; Man is a brotherhood, that we know,
And the whole damn family has got to go _Plomp in the grave
of the Boorzh-waw-ze, With a Hi-ti-tiddle-i! ... Honk, honk!_

Too many people are alive to-day, _With a Hey and a Ho and a
Hee-haw-hee!_ Red already is the Red, Red Sea With the blood of the
brutal Boorzh-waw-ze, And that's what the rest of the globe will
be-- _Believe me!_ We'll stand at last with the Red Flag furled*
In a perfectly void vermilion world With the citizens (if any) who
have _not_ been hurled _Into the grave of the Boorzh-waw-ze,
With a Hi-ti-tiddle-i ... Honk, honk!_
A. P. H.

[* NOTE.--In the Somerset version the word is "_un_furled," which
makes better sense but scans even worse than the rest of the song.
I have therefore followed the Gloucestershire tradition.]
* * * * *
SOURCES OF LAUGHTER.

"It will have to be a great deal funnier than that before it's funny,"
said George.

This

represented the general opinion, though Edna, who has a good heart,
professed to find it diverting already. Unfortunately she has no
sense of humour.

Jerry, the writer, claimed exemption on the ground of being the
writer, though he did not see why his article should not
remove gravity (as they say in _The Wallet of Kai Lung_) from other
people quite as effectually as the silly tosh of A. and B.
and C., naming some brilliant and successful humorists.

The company then resolved itself into a Voluntary Aid
Detachment.

When they met again at tea Edna made the suggestion of a sprinkling
of puns.

"We've got rather beyond that, I think," said the victim with
dignity.

"I'm not so sure," said George cruelly, "that you can afford to
neglect any means. Some people laugh at them even now, in this
twentieth century, in this beautiful England of ours."
"And I can

tell you why," broke in Raymond eagerly. He took from his
pocket a well-known Manual of Psychology and whirled over the
pages.

"Meanwhile," said George learnedly, "BERGSON may

be of some assistance to you. He knows all about laughter. He
analysed it."
"Why couldn't he leave it alone?" said Allegra uneasily.

"He defines laughter," said George, "as 'a kind of social gesture.'"

"It isn't," said Allegra rashly. "At least," she added, "that
sort of thing isn't going to help Jerry. Do give it up."
"Well, then, here's something more practical," said George. "Listen.


'A situation is always comical when it belongs at one and the
same time to two series of absolutely independent events, and
can at the same time be interpreted in two different ways.'"

"I should think," said Edna brightly, "that might be very amusing."

She remarked later that it made it all seem very clear, but even
she showed signs of relief when Raymond interrupted, having

found his place.

"Here we are!" he exclaimed. "The book says that the reason a pun
amuses you----"
"It doesn't amuse me," said most of the company.

"But it does--it must amuse you. It's all down here in black and
white. Listen. The reason a pun amuses you is as follows: 'It
impels the mind to identify objects quite disconnected. This obstructs
the flow of thought; but this is too transient to give rise to
pain, and the relief which comes with insight into the true state
of the case may be a source of keen pleasure. Mental activity
suddenly obstructed and so heightened is at once set free, and
is so much greater than the occasion demands that----'"
"And is that why we laugh at things?" said Allegra sadly.


The heavy silence which followed was broken by the voice of
Mrs.
Purkis, the charlady, who "comes in to oblige," and was now taking
a short cut to the front gate, under Cook's escort, by way of the
parsley bed. This brought her within earshot of the party, who
were taking tea on the lawn.


When Mrs. Purkis could contain her mirth so as to make herself
understood, her words were these: "I dunno why, but when I see
'im stand like that, staring like a stuck pig, I thought I'd died
a-larf'n. I dunno why, but it made me _larf_----"
She passed, like _Pippa_.

"Listen to her," said Allegra in bitter envy. "_She doesn't know
why._"
And Allegra burst into tears.

* * * * *
[Illustration: _The Fisherman._ "I SUPPOSE THIS RAIN WILL DO A LOT
OF GOOD, PAT?"
_Pat._ "YE MAY WELL SAY THAT, SORR. AN HOUR OF UT NOW WILL DO MORE
GOOD IN FIVE MINUTES THAN A MONTH OF UT WOULD DO IN A WEEK AT
ANNY OTHER TIME."]
* * * * *
What's in a Name?

"'A Recital' will be given by Miss H. E. Stutter (the well-known
Elocutionist)."
_Local Paper._
* * * * *
AT THE BLOATER SHOW.

The last time I was at Olympia--as everybody says at the
door--it was a Horse Show. But this time it is much the same. There
they stand in their stalls, the dear, magnificent, patient
creatures, with their glossy coats and their beautiful curves,
their sensitive radiators sniffing for something over the velvet
ropes. Panting, I know they are, to be out in the open again;
and yet I fancy they enjoy it all in a way. It would be ungrateful
if they did not; for, after all, the whole thing has

been arranged for them. The whole idea of the Show is to let
the motors inspect the bloaters--and not what you think.
(You don't know what bloaters are? Well, I can't explain
without being rude.)
All the year round they can study _ad nauseam_ their own individual
bloaters; but this is the only occasion on which they have
the whole world of bloaters paraded in front of them for inspection.
Now only can they compare notes and

exchange grievances.

And how closely they study the parade! Here is a pretty limousine,
a blonde; see how she watches the two huge exhibits in front of
her.
They are very new bloaters, and one of them--oh, horror!--one of
them is going to buy. He has never bought before; she knows his
sort. He will drive her to death; he may even drive her himself;
he will stroke her lovely coat in a familiar, proprietary fashion;
he will show her off unceasingly to other bloaters till she is hot
all over and the water boils in her radiator. He will hold forth
with a horrible intimacy and a yet more horrible ignorance on the
most private secrets of her inner life. Not one throb of her young
cylinders will be sacred, yet never will he understand her as she
would like to be understood. He will mess her with his muddy boots;
he will scratch her paint; he will drop tobacco-ash all over her
cushions--not from pipes; cigars only....
There--he has bought her. It is a tragedy. Let us move on.
Here is a little _coupé_--a smart young creature with a nice blue
coat, fond of town, I should say, but quite at home in the country.
She also is inspecting two bloaters. But these two are very shy.
In fact they are not really bloaters at all; they are rather a pair
of nice-mannered fresh herrings, not long mated. The male had
something to do with that war, I should think; the _coupé_ would
help him a good deal. The lady likes her because she is dark-blue.
The other one likes her because of something to do with her works;
but he is very reverent and tactful about it. He seems to know that
he is being scrutinised, for he is nervous, and scarcely dares to
speak about her to the groom in the top-hat. He will drive her
himself; he will look after her himself; he will know all about
her, all about her moods and fancies and secret failings; he will
humour and coax her, and she will serve him very nobly.
Already, you see, they have given her a name--"Jane," I think they
said; they will creep off into the country with her when the summer
comes, all by themselves; they will plunge into the middle of thick
forests and sit down happily in the shade at midday and look at
her; and she will love them.
But the question is----Ah, they are shaking their heads; they are
edging away. She is too much. They look back sadly as they go.
Another tragedy....
Now I am going to be a bloater myself. Here is a jolly one, though
her stable-name is much too long. She is a Saloon-de-Luxe, and she
only costs £2,125 (why 5, I wonder--why not 6?) I can run to that,
_surely_. At any rate I can climb up and sit down on her cushions;
none of the grooms is looking. Dark-blue, I see, like Jane. That
is the sort of car I love. I am like the lady herring; I don't
approve of all this talk about the _insides_ of things; it seems
to me to be rather indecent--unless, of course, you do it very
nicely, like that young herring. When you go and look at a horse
you don't ask how its sweetbread is arranged, or what is the principle
of its liver. Then why should you...?
Well, here we are, and very comfortable too. But why does none of
these cars have any means of communication between the owner and
the man next to the chauffeur? There is always a telephone to the
chauffeur, but none to the overflow guest on the box. So that when
the host sees an old manor-house which he thinks the guest hasn't
noticed he has to hammer on the glass and do semaphore; and the
guest thinks he is being asked if he is warm enough.
Otherwise, though, this is a nice car. It is very cosy in here.
Dark and quiet and warm. I could go to sleep in here.
* * * * *
What? What's that? No, I don't really want to buy it, thank you. I
just wanted to see if it was a good sleeping-car. As a matter of
fact I think it is. But I don't like the colour. And what I really
want is a _cabriolet_. Good afternoon. Thank you....
A pleasant gentleman, that. I wish I could have bought the Saloon.
She would have liked me. So would he, I expect.
Well, we had better go home. I shan't buy any more cars to-day. And
we won't go up to the gallery; there is nothing but oleo-plugs and
graphite-grease up there. That sort of thing spoils the romance.
Ah, here is dear Jane again! What a pity it was---- Hallo, they
have come back--the two nice herrings. They are bargaining--they
are beating him down. No, he is beating them up. Go on--go on. Yes,
you can run to that--_of course_ you can. Sell those oil shares.
Look at her--_look_ at her! You can't leave her here for one of the
bloaters.
He wavers; he consults. "Such a lovely colour." Ah, that's done it!
He has decided. He has bought. She has bought. They have bought.
Hurrah!

A. P. H.

* * * * * 
THE PREMIER'S METAPHORS.
Some time ago the PREMIER beheld the sunrise upon the mountains,
and now he has plunged his thermometer into the lava to discover
that the stream is cooling--indicating comfort, let us hope, to any
who may be buried beneath it. Only by an oversight, we understand,
did he omit to mention in his speech at the Guildhall that the
chamois is once more browsing happily among the blooming edelweiss.
But in continuing his lofty metaphors Mr. LLOYD GEORGE will find
himself confronted by no small difficulty when dealing with the
glacier. What can he say that the glacier is doing? It must do
something. A glacier is of no rhetorical value if it merely stays
where it is. One may take in hand the ice-axe of resolution and the
alpenstock of enterprise and pull over one's boots the socks of
Coalition, but the glacier remains practically unchanged by these
preparations. It would be of little use to declare that its uneven
surface is being levelled by the steam-roller of progress and its
crevasses filled in by the cement of human kindness, because the
Opposition Press would soon get scientists, engineers and statisticians
to establish the absurdity of such a claim. And to announce that
the glacier is getting warmer would create no end of a panic among
the homesteads in the valley. Unless he is very, very careful Mr.
LLOYD GEORGE may make a grave slip in negotiating the glacier.
Then the "awful avalanche" has not yet been dealt with. A few helpful
words on the direction this is likely to take and the safest rock
to make for when it begins to move might be welcomed by the PREMIER'S
followers. He may argue that it is folly to meet trouble half-way,
but on the other hand, if he does not speak on this subject soon,
the opportunity may disappear. Let him avoid the glacier if he
chooses; he cannot (so we are informed) escape the avalanche.
* * * * * 
[Illustration: =TREATING UNDER PROHIBITION.=
"HELLO, OLD FRIGHT--HAVEN'T SEEN YOU FOR AGES!" 
"WE MUST HAVE ONE."In the
case of the reflex function alone the muscles are excited by a
stimulus acting mediately and indirectly in a curved and reflex
course, along superficial subcutaneous or submucous nerves
proceeding from the medulla. The first three of these causes of
muscular motion may act on detached limbs or muscles.  The last
requires the connection with the medulla to be preserved entire.

"All the kinds of muscular motion may be unduly excited, but the
reflex function is peculiar in being excitable in two modes of
action, not previously subsisting in the animal economy, as in
the case of sneezing, coughing, vomiting, etc. The reflex
function also admits of being permanently diminished or augmented
and of taking on some other morbid forms, of which I shall treat
hereafter.

"Before I proceed to the details of the experiments upon which
this disposition rests, it may be well to point out several
instances in illustration of the various sources of and the modes
of muscular action which have been enumerated. None can be more
familiar than the act of swallowing. Yet how complicated is the
act!  The apprehension of the food by the teeth and tongue, etc.,
is voluntary, and cannot, therefore, take place in an animal from
which the cerebrum is removed. The transition of food over the
glottis and along the middle and lower part of the pharynx
depends upon the reflex action: it can take place in animals from
which the cerebrum has been removed or the ninth pair of nerves
divided; but it requires the connection with the medulla
oblongata to be preserved entirely; and the actual contact of
some substance which may act as a stimulus:  it is attended by
the accurate closure of the glottis and by the contraction of the
pharynx. The completion of the act of deglutition is dependent
upon the stimulus immediately impressed upon the muscular fibre
of the oesophagus, and is the result of excited irritability.

"However plain these observations may have made the fact that
there is a function of the nervous muscular system distinct from
sensation, from the voluntary and respiratory motions, and from
irritability, it is right, in every such inquiry as the present,
that the statements and reasonings should be made with the
experiment, as it were, actually before us. It has already been
remarked that the voluntary and respiratory motions are
spontaneous, not necessarily requiring the agency of a stimulus.
If, then, an animal can be placed in such circumstances that such
motions will certainly not take place, the power of moving
remaining, it may be concluded that volition and the motive
influence of respiration are annihilated. Now this is effected by
removing the cerebrum and the medulla oblongata. These facts are
fully proved by the experiments of Legallois and M. Flourens, and
by several which I proceed to detail, for the sake of the
opportunity afforded by doing so of stating the arguments most
clearly.

"I divided the spinal marrow of a very lively snake between the
second and third vertebrae.  The movements of the animal were
immediately before extremely vigorous and unintermitted. From the
moment of the division of the spinal marrow it lay perfectly
tranquil and motionless, with the exception of occasional
gaspings and slight movements of the head. It became quite
evident that this state of quiescence would continue indefinitely
were the animal secured from all external impressions.

"Being now stimulated, the body began to move with great
activity, and continued to do so for a considerable time, each
change of position or situation bringing some fresh part of the
surface of the animal into contact with the table or other
objects and renewing the application of stimulants.

"At length the animal became again quiescent; and being carefully
protected from all external impressions it moved no more, but
died in the precise position and form which it had last assumed.

"It requires a little manoeuvre to perform this experiment
successfully: the motions of the animal must be watched and
slowly and cautiously arrested by opposing some soft substance,
as a glove or cotton wool; they are by this means gradually
lulled into quiescence. The slightest touch with a hard
substance, the slightest stimulus, will, on the other hand, renew
the movements on the animal in an active form. But that this
phenomenon does not depend upon sensation is further fully proved
by the facts that the position last assumed, and the stimuli, may
be such as would be attended by extreme or continued pain, if the
sensibility were undestroyed:  in one case the animal remained
partially suspended over the acute edge of the table; in others
the infliction of punctures and the application of a lighted
taper did not prevent the animal, still possessed of active
powers of motion, from passing into a state of complete and
permanent quiescence."


In summing up this long paper Hall concludes with this sentence:
"The reflex function appears in a word to be the COMPLEMENT of
the functions of the nervous system hitherto known."[2]

All these considerations as to nerve currents and nerve tracts
becoming stock knowledge of science, it was natural that interest
should become stimulated as to the exact character of these nerve
tracts in themselves, and all the more natural in that the
perfected microscope was just now claiming all fields for its
own. A troop of observers soon entered upon the study of the
nerves, and the leader here, as in so many other lines of
microscopical research, was no other than Theodor Schwann. 
Through his efforts, and with the invaluable aid of such other
workers as Remak, Purkinje, Henle, Muller, and the rest, all the
mystery as to the general characteristics of nerve tracts was
cleared away. It came to be known that in its essentials a nerve
tract is a tenuous fibre or thread of protoplasm stretching
between two terminal points in the organism, one of such termini
being usually a cell of the brain or spinal cord, the other a
distribution-point at or near the periphery--for example, in a
muscle or in the skin. Such a fibril may have about it a
protective covering, which is known as the sheath of Schwann; but
the fibril itself is the essential nerve tract; and in many
cases, as Remak presently discovered, the sheath is dispensed
with, particularly in case of the nerves of the so-called
sympathetic system.

This sympathetic system of ganglia and nerves, by-the-bye, had
long been a puzzle to the physiologists.  Its ganglia, the
seeming centre of the system, usually minute in size and never
very large, are found everywhere through the organism, but in
particular are gathered into a long double chain which lies
within the body cavity, outside the spinal column, and represents
the sole nervous system of the non-vertebrated organisms. Fibrils
from these ganglia were seen to join the cranial and spinal nerve
fibrils and to accompany them everywhere, but what special
function they subserved was long a mere matter of conjecture and
led to many absurd speculations.  Fact was not substituted for
conjecture until about the year 1851, when the great Frenchman
Claude Bernard conclusively proved that at least one chief
function of the sympathetic fibrils is to cause contraction of
the walls of the arterioles of the system, thus regulating the
blood-supply of any given part. Ten years earlier Henle had
demonstrated the existence of annular bands of muscle fibres in
the arterioles, hitherto a much-mooted question, and several
tentative explanations of the action of these fibres had been
made, particularly by the brothers Weber, by Stilling, who, as
early as 1840, had ventured to speak of "vaso-motor" nerves, and
by Schiff, who was hard upon the same track at the time of
Bernard's discovery. But a clear light was not thrown on the
subject until Bernard's experiments were made in 1851.  The
experiments were soon after confirmed and extended by
Brown-Sequard, Waller, Budge, and numerous others, and henceforth
physiologists felt that they understood how the blood-supply of
any given part is regulated by the nervous system.

In reality, however, they had learned only half the story, as
Bernard himself proved only a few years later by opening up a new
and quite unsuspected chapter.  While experimenting in 1858 he
discovered that there are certain nerves supplying the heart
which, if stimulated, cause that organ to relax and cease
beating.  As the heart is essentially nothing more than an
aggregation of muscles, this phenomenon was utterly puzzling and
without precedent in the experience of physiologists. An impulse
travelling along a motor nerve had been supposed to be able to
cause a muscular contraction and to do nothing else; yet here
such an impulse had exactly the opposite effect. The only tenable
explanation seemed to be that this particular impulse must arrest
or inhibit the action of the impulses that ordinarily cause the
heart muscles to contract. But the idea of such inhibition of one
impulse by another was utterly novel and at first difficult to
comprehend. Gradually, however, the idea took its place in the
current knowledge of nerve physiology, and in time it came to be
understood that what happens in the case of the heart
nerve-supply is only a particular case under a very general,
indeed universal, form of nervous action.  Growing out of
Bernard's initial discovery came the final understanding that the
entire nervous system is a mechanism of centres subordinate and
centres superior, the action of the one of which may be
counteracted and annulled in effect by the action of the other. 
This applies not merely to such physical processes as heart-beats
and arterial contraction and relaxing, but to the most intricate
functionings which have their counterpart in psychical processes
as well. Thus the observation of the inhibition of the heart's
action by a nervous impulse furnished the point of departure for
studies that led to a better understanding of the modus operandi
of the mind's activities than had ever previously been attained
by the most subtle of psychologists.


PSYCHO-PHYSICS

The work of the nerve physiologists had thus an important bearing
on questions of the mind.  But there was another company of
workers of this period who made an even more direct assault upon
the "citadel of thought." A remarkable school of workers had been
developed in Germany, the leaders being men who, having more or
less of innate metaphysical bias as a national birthright, had
also the instincts of the empirical scientist, and whose
educational equipment included a profound knowledge not alone of
physiology and psychology, but of physics and mathematics as
well. These men undertook the novel task of interrogating the
relations of body and mind from the standpoint of physics.  They
sought to apply the vernier and the balance, as far as might be,
to the intangible processes of mind.

The movement had its precursory stages in the early part of the
century, notably in the mathematical psychology of Herbart, but
its first definite output to attract general attention came from
the master-hand of Hermann Helmholtz in 1851. It consisted of the
accurate measurement of the speed of transit of a nervous impulse
along a nerve tract.  To make such measurement had been regarded
as impossible, it being supposed that the flight of the nervous
impulse was practically instantaneous. But Helmholtz readily
demonstrated the contrary, showing that the nerve cord is a
relatively sluggish message-bearer. According to his experiments,
first performed upon the frog, the nervous "current" travels less
than one hundred feet per second. Other experiments performed
soon afterwards by Helmholtz himself, and by various followers,
chief among whom was Du Bois-Reymond, modified somewhat the exact
figures at first obtained, but did not change the general
bearings of the early results. Thus the nervous impulse was shown
to be something far different, as regards speed of transit, at
any rate, from the electric current to which it had been so often
likened. An electric current would flash halfway round the globe
while a nervous impulse could travel the length of the human
body--from a man's foot to his brain.

The tendency to bridge the gulf that hitherto had separated the
physical from the psychical world was further evidenced in the
following decade by Helmholtz's remarkable but highly technical
study of the sensations of sound and of color in connection with
their physical causes, in the course of which he revived the
doctrine of color vision which that other great physiologist and
physicist, Thomas Young, had advanced half a century before. The
same tendency was further evidenced by the appearance, in 1852,
of Dr. Hermann Lotze's famous Medizinische Psychologie, oder
Physiologie der Seele, with its challenge of the old myth of a
"vital force."  But the most definite expression of the new
movement was signalized in 1860, when Gustav Fechner published
his classical work called Psychophysik.  That title introduced a
new word into the vocabulary of science. Fechner explained it by
saying, "I mean by psychophysics an exact theory of the relation
between spirit and body, and, in a general way, between the
physical and the psychic worlds." The title became famous and the
brunt of many a controversy. So also did another phrase which
Fechner introduced in the course of his book--the phrase
"physiological psychology." In making that happy collocation of
words Fechner virtually christened a new science.


FECHNER EXPOUNDS WEBER'S LAW

The chief purport of this classical book of the German
psycho-physiologist was the elaboration and explication of
experiments based on a method introduced more than twenty years
earlier by his countryman E. H. Weber, but which hitherto had
failed to attract the attention it deserved. The method consisted
of the measurement and analysis of the definite relation existing
between external stimuli of varying degrees of intensity (various
sounds, for example) and the mental states they induce. Weber's
experiments grew out of the familiar observation that the nicety
of our discriminations of various sounds, weights, or visual
images depends upon the magnitude of each particular cause of a
sensation in its relation with other similar causes.  Thus, for
example, we cannot see the stars in the daytime, though they
shine as brightly then as at night. Again, we seldom notice the
ticking of a clock in the daytime, though it may become almost
painfully audible in the silence of the night. Yet again, the
difference between an ounce weight and a two-ounce weight is
clearly enough appreciable when we lift the two, but one cannot
discriminate in the same way between a five-pound weight and a
weight of one ounce over five pounds.

This last example, and similar ones for the other senses, gave
Weber the clew to his novel experiments.  Reflection upon
every-day experiences made it clear to him that whenever we
consider two visual sensations, or two auditory sensations, or
two sensations of weight, in comparison one with another, there
is always a limit to the keenness of our discrimination, and that
this degree of keenness varies, as in the case of the weights
just cited, with the magnitude of the exciting cause.

Weber determined to see whether these common experiences could be
brought within the pale of a general law. His method consisted of
making long series of experiments aimed at the determination, in
each case, of what came to be spoken of as the least observable
difference between the stimuli. Thus if one holds an ounce weight
in each hand, and has tiny weights added to one of them, grain by
grain, one does not at first perceive a difference; but
presently, on the addition of a certain grain, he does become
aware of the difference. Noting now how many grains have been
added to produce this effect, we have the weight which represents
the least appreciable difference when the standard is one ounce.

Now repeat the experiment, but let the weights be each of five
pounds. Clearly in this case we shall be obliged to add not
grains, but drachms, before a difference between the two heavy
weights is perceived.  But whatever the exact amount added, that
amount represents the stimulus producing a just-perceivable
sensation of difference when the standard is five pounds. And so
on for indefinite series of weights of varying magnitudes. Now
came Weber's curious discovery.  Not only did he find that in
repeated experiments with the same pair of weights the measure of
"just-{p}erceivable difference" remained approximately fixed, but
he found, further, that a remarkable fixed relation exists
between the stimuli of different magnitude.  If, for example, he
had found it necessary, in the case of the ounce weights, to add
one-fiftieth of an ounce to the one before a difference was
detected, he found also, in the case of the five-pound weights,
that one-fiftieth of five pounds must be added before producing
the same result.  And so of all other weights; the amount added
to produce the stimulus of "least-appreciable difference" always
bore the same mathematical relation to the magnitude of the
weight used, be that magnitude great or small.

Weber found that the same thing holds good for the stimuli of the
sensations of sight and of hearing, the differential stimulus
bearing always a fixed ratio to the total magnitude of the
stimuli. Here, then, was the law he had sought.

Weber's results were definite enough and striking enough, yet
they failed to attract any considerable measure of attention
until they were revived and extended by Fechner and brought
before the world in the famous work on psycho-physics. Then they
precipitated a veritable melee. Fechner had not alone verified
the earlier results (with certain limitations not essential to
the present consideration), but had invented new methods of
making similar tests, and had reduced the whole question to
mathematical treatment.  He pronounced Weber's discovery the
fundamental law of psycho-physics. In honor of the discoverer, he
christened it Weber's Law.  He clothed the law in words and in
mathematical formulae, and, so to say, launched it full tilt at
the heads of the psychological world.  It made a fine commotion,
be assured, for it was the first widely heralded bulletin of the
new psychology in its march upon the strongholds of the
time-honored metaphysics. The accomplishments of the
microscopists and the nerve physiologists had been but
preliminary--mere border skirmishes of uncertain import. But here
was proof that the iconoclastic movement meant to invade the very
heart of the sacred territory of mind--a territory from which
tangible objective fact had been supposed to be forever barred.


PHYSIOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY

Hardly had the alarm been sounded, however, before a new movement
was made.  While Fechner's book was fresh from the press, steps
were being taken to extend the methods of the physicist in yet
another way to the intimate processes of the mind. As Helmholtz
had shown the rate of nervous impulsion along the nerve tract to
be measurable, it was now sought to measure also the time
required for the central nervous mechanism to perform its work of
receiving a message and sending out a response. This was coming
down to the very threshold of mind. The attempt was first made by
Professor Donders in 1861, but definitive results were only
obtained after many years of experiment on the part of a host of
observers. The chief of these, and the man who has stood in the
forefront of the new movement and has been its recognized leader
throughout the remainder of the century, is Dr. Wilhelm Wundt, of
Leipzig.

The task was not easy, but, in the long run, it was accomplished.
Not alone was it shown that the nerve centre requires a
measurable time for its operations, but much was learned as to
conditions that modify this time.  Thus it was found that
different persons vary in the rate of their central nervous
activity--which explained the "personal equation" that the
astronomer Bessel had noted a half-century before. It was found,
too, that the rate of activity varies also for the same person
under different conditions, becoming retarded, for example, under
influence of fatigue, or in case of certain diseases of the
brain.  All details aside, the essential fact emerges, as an
experimental demonstration, that the intellectual
processes--sensation, apperception, volition--are linked
irrevocably with the activities of the central nervous tissues,
and that these activities, like all other physical processes,
have a time element.  To that old school of psychologists, who
scarcely cared more for the human head than for the heels--being
interested only in the mind--such a linking of mind and body as
was thus demonstrated was naturally disquieting. But whatever the
inferences, there was no escaping the facts.

Of course this new movement has not been confined to Germany. 
Indeed, it had long had exponents elsewhere. Thus in England, a
full century earlier, Dr. Hartley had championed the theory of
the close and indissoluble dependence of the mind upon the brain,
and formulated a famous vibration theory of association that
still merits careful consideration. Then, too, in France, at the
beginning of the century, there was Dr. Cabanis with his
tangible, if crudely phrased, doctrine that the brain digests
impressions and secretes thought as the stomach digests food and
the liver secretes bile. Moreover, Herbert Spencer's Principles
of Psychology, with its avowed co-ordination of mind and body and
its vitalizing theory of evolution, appeared in 1855, half a
decade before the work of Fechner.  But these influences, though
of vast educational value, were theoretical rather than
demonstrative, and the fact remains that the experimental work
which first attempted to gauge mental operations by physical
principles was mainly done in Germany.  Wundt's Physiological
Psychology, with its full preliminary descriptions of the anatomy
of the nervous system, gave tangible expression to the growth of
the new movement in 1874; and four years later, with the opening
of his laboratory of physiological psychology at the University
of Leipzig, the new psychology may be said to have gained a
permanent foothold and to have forced itself into official
recognition. From then on its conquest of the world was but a
matter of time.

It should be noted, however, that there is one other method of
strictly experimental examination of the mental field, latterly
much in vogue, which had a different origin. This is the
scientific investigation of the phenomena of hypnotism. This
subject was rescued from the hands of charlatans, rechristened,
and subjected to accurate investigation by Dr. James Braid, of
Manchester, as early as 1841. But his results, after attracting
momentary attention, fell from view, and, despite desultory
efforts, the subject was not again accorded a general hearing
from the scientific world until 1878, when Dr. Charcot took it up
at the Salpetriere, in Paris, followed soon afterwards by Dr.
Rudolf Heidenhain, of Breslau, and a host of other experimenters. 
The value of the method in the study of mental states was soon
apparent. Most of Braid's experiments were repeated, and in the
main his results were confirmed.  His explanation of hypnotism,
or artificial somnambulism, as a self-induced state, independent
of any occult or supersensible influence, soon gained general
credence.  His belief that the initial stages are due to fatigue
of nervous centres, usually from excessive stimulation, has not
been supplanted, though supplemented by notions growing out of
the new knowledge as to subconscious mentality in general, and
the inhibitory influence of one centre over another in the
central nervous mechanism.


THE BRAIN AS THE ORGAN OF MIND

These studies of the psychologists and pathologists bring the
relations of mind and body into sharp relief.  But even more
definite in this regard was the work of the brain physiologists.
Chief of these, during the middle period of the century, was the
man who is sometimes spoken of as the "father of brain
physiology," Marie Jean Pierre Flourens, of the Jardin des
Plantes of Paris, the pupil and worthy successor of Magendie. 
His experiments in nerve physiology were begun in the first
quarter of the century, but his local experiments upon the brain
itself were not culminated until about 1842. At this time the old
dispute over phrenology had broken out afresh, and the studies of
Flourens were aimed, in part at least, at the strictly scientific
investigation of this troublesome topic.

In the course of these studies Flourens discovered that in the
medulla oblongata, the part of the brain which connects that
organ with the spinal cord, there is a centre of minute size
which cannot be injured in the least without causing the instant
death of the animal operated upon.  It may be added that it is
this spot which is reached by the needle of the garroter in
Spanish executions, and that the same centre also is destroyed
when a criminal is "successfully" hanged, this time by the forced
intrusion of a process of the second cervical vertebra. Flourens
named this spot the "vital knot."  Its extreme importance, as is
now understood, is due to the fact that it is the centre of
nerves that supply the heart; but this simple explanation,
annulling the conception of a specific "life centre," was not at
once apparent.

Other experiments of Flourens seemed to show that the cerebellum
is the seat of the centres that co-ordinate muscular activities,
and that the higher intellectual faculties are relegated to the
cerebrum. But beyond this, as regards localization, experiment
faltered. Negative results, as regards specific faculties, were
obtained from all localized irritations of the cerebrum, and
Flourens was forced to conclude that the cerebral lobe, while
being undoubtedly the seat of higher intellection, performs its
functions with its entire structure. This conclusion, which
incidentally gave a quietus to phrenology, was accepted
generally, and became the stock doctrine of cerebral physiology
for a generation.

It will be seen, however, that these studies of Flourens had a
double bearing.  They denied localization of cerebral functions,
but they demonstrated the localization of certain nervous
processes in other portions of the brain.  On the whole, then,
they spoke positively for the principle of localization of
function in the brain, for which a certain number of students
contended; while their evidence against cerebral localization was
only negative. There was here and there an observer who felt that
this negative testimony was not conclusive.  In particular, the
German anatomist Meynert, who had studied the disposition of
nerve tracts in the cerebrum, was led to believe that the
anterior portions of the cerebrum must have motor functions in
preponderance; the posterior positions, sensory functions. 
Somewhat similar conclusions were reached also by Dr.
Hughlings-Jackson, in England, from his studies of epilepsy. But
no positive evidence was forthcoming until 1861, when Dr. Paul
Broca brought before the Academy of Medicine in Paris a case of
brain lesion which he regarded as having most important bearings
on the question of cerebral localization.

The case was that of a patient at the Bicetre, who for twenty
years had been deprived of the power of speech, seemingly through
loss of memory of words. In 1861 this patient died, and an
autopsy revealed that a certain convolution of the left frontal
lobe of his cerebrum had been totally destroyed by disease, the
remainder of his brain being intact. Broca felt that this
observation pointed strongly to a localization of the memory of
words in a definite area of the brain.  Moreover, it transpired
that the case was not without precedent.  As long ago as 1825 Dr.
Boillard had been led, through pathological studies, to locate
definitely a centre for the articulation of words in the frontal
lobe, and here and there other observers had made tentatives in
the same direction. Boillard had even followed the matter up with
pertinacity, but the world was not ready to listen to him.  Now,
however, in the half-decade that followed Broca's announcements,
interest rose to fever-beat, and through the efforts of Broca,
Boillard, and numerous others it was proved that a veritable
centre having a strange domination over the memory of articulate
words has its seat in the third convolution of the frontal lobe
of the cerebrum, usually in the left hemisphere. That part of the
brain has since been known to the English-speaking world as the
convolution of Broca, a name which, strangely enough, the
discoverer's compatriots have been slow to accept.

This discovery very naturally reopened the entire subject of
brain localization.  It was but a short step to the inference
that there must be other definite centres worth the seeking, and
various observers set about searching for them.  In 1867 a clew
was gained by Eckhard, who, repeating a forgotten experiment by
Haller and Zinn of the previous century, removed portions of the
brain cortex of animals, with the result of producing
convulsions. But the really vital departure was made in 1870 by
the German investigators Fritsch and Hitzig, who, by stimulating
definite areas of the cortex of animals with a galvanic current,
produced contraction of definite sets of muscles of the opposite
side of the body. These most important experiments, received at
first with incredulity, were repeated and extended in 1873 by Dr.
David Ferrier, of London, and soon afterwards by a small army of
independent workers everywhere, prominent among whom were Franck
and Pitres in France, Munck and Goltz in Germany, and Horsley and
Schafer in England.  The detailed results, naturally enough, were
not at first all in harmony.  Some observers, as Goltz, even
denied the validity of the conclusions in toto. But a consensus
of opinion, based on multitudes of experiments, soon placed the
broad general facts for which Fritsch and Hitzig contended beyond
controversy.  It was found, indeed, that the cerebral centres of
motor activities have not quite the finality at first ascribed to
them by some observers, since it may often happen that after the
destruction of a centre, with attending loss of function, there
may be a gradual restoration of the lost function, proving that
other centres have acquired the capacity to take the place of the
one destroyed.  There are limits to this capacity for
substitution, however, and with this qualification the
definiteness of the localization of motor functions in the
cerebral cortex has become an accepted part of brain physiology.

Nor is such localization confined to motor centres. Later
experiments, particularly of Ferrier and of Munck, proved that
the centres of vision are equally restricted in their location,
this time in the posterior lobes of the brain, and that hearing
has likewise its local habitation. Indeed, there is every reason
to believe that each form of primary sensation is based on
impressions which mainly come to a definitely localized goal in
the brain.  But all this, be it understood, has no reference to
the higher forms of intellection. All experiment has proved
futile to localize these functions, except indeed to the extent
of corroborating the familiar fact of their dependence upon the
brain, and, somewhat problematically, upon the anterior lobes of
the cerebrum in particular. But this is precisely what should be
expected, for the clearer insight into the nature of mental
processes makes it plain that in the main these alleged
"faculties" are not in themselves localized. Thus, for example,
the "faculty" of language is associated irrevocably with centres
of vision, of hearing, and of muscular activity, to go no
further, and only becomes possible through the association of
these widely separated centres. The destruction of Broca's
centre, as was early discovered, does not altogether deprive a
patient of his knowledge of language. He may be totally unable to
speak (though as to this there are all degrees of variation), and
yet may comprehend what is said to him, and be able to read,
think, and even write correctly. Thus it appears that Broca's
centre is peculiarly bound up with the capacity for articulate
speech, but is far enough from being the seat of the faculty of
language in its entirety.

In a similar way, most of the supposed isolated "faculties" of
higher intellection appear, upon clearer analysis, as complex
aggregations of primary sensations, and hence necessarily
dependent upon numerous and scattered centres. Some "faculties,"
as memory and volition, may be said in a sense to be primordial
endowments of every nerve cell--even of every body cell.  Indeed,
an ultimate analysis relegates all intellection, in its
primordial adumbrations, to every particle of living matter. But
such refinements of analysis, after all, cannot hide the fact
that certain forms of higher intellection involve a pretty
definite collocation and elaboration of special sensations. Such
specialization, indeed, seems a necessary accompaniment of mental
evolution.  That every such specialized function has its
localized centres of co-ordination, of some such significance as
the demonstrated centres of articulate speech, can hardly be in
doubt--though this, be it understood, is an induction, not as yet
a demonstration.  In other words, there is every reason to
believe that numerous "centres," in this restricted sense, exist
in the brain that have as yet eluded the investigator. Indeed,
the current conception regards the entire cerebral cortex as
chiefly composed of centres of ultimate co-ordination of
impressions, which in their cruder form are received by more
primitive nervous tissues--the basal ganglia, the cerebellum and
medulla, and the spinal cord.

This, of course, is equivalent to postulating the cerebral cortex
as the exclusive seat of higher intellection. This proposition,
however, to which a safe induction seems to lead, is far afield
from the substantiation of the old conception of brain
localization, which was based on faulty psychology and equally
faulty inductions from few premises. The details of Gall's
system, as propounded by generations of his mostly unworthy
followers, lie quite beyond the pale of scientific discussion. 
Yet, as I have said, a germ of truth was there--the idea of
specialization of cerebral functions--and modern investigators
have rescued that central conception from the phrenological
rubbish heap in which its discoverer unfortunately left it
buried.


THE MINUTE STRUCTURE OF THE BRAIN

The common ground of all these various lines of investigations of
pathologist, anatomist, physiologist, physicist, and psychologist
is, clearly, the central nervous system--the spinal cord and the
brain. The importance of these structures as the foci of nervous
and mental activities has been recognized more and more with each
new accretion of knowledge, and the efforts to fathom the secrets
of their intimate structure has been unceasing. For the earlier
students, only the crude methods of gross dissections and
microscopical inspection were available. These could reveal
something, but of course the inner secrets were for the keener
insight of the microscopist alone. And even for him the task of
investigation was far from facile, for the central nervous
tissues are the most delicate and fragile, and on many accounts
the most difficult of manipulation of any in the body.

Special methods, therefore, were needed for this essay, and brain
histology has progressed by fitful impulses, each forward jet
marking the introduction of some ingenious improvement of
mechanical technique, which placed a new weapon in the hands of
the investigators.

The very beginning was made in 1824 by Rolando, who first thought
of cutting chemically hardened pieces of brain tissues into thin
sections for microscopical examination--the basal structure upon
which almost all the later advances have been conducted. Muller
presently discovered that bichromate of potassium in solution
makes the best of fluids for the preliminary preservation and
hardening of the tissues.  Stilling, in 1842, perfected the
method by introducing the custom of cutting a series of
consecutive sections of the same tissue, in order to trace nerve
tracts and establish spacial relations.  Then from time to time
mechanical ingenuity added fresh details of improvement. It was
found that pieces of hardened tissue of extreme delicacy can be
made better subject to manipulation by being impregnated with
collodion or celloidine and embedded in paraffine. Latterly it
has become usual to cut sections also from fresh tissues,
unchanged by chemicals, by freezing them suddenly with vaporized
ether or, better, carbonic acid. By these methods, and with the
aid of perfected microtomes, the worker of recent periods avails
himself of sections of brain tissues of a tenuousness which the
early investigators could not approach.

But more important even than the cutting of thin sections is the
process of making the different parts of the section visible, one
tissue differentiated from another.  The thin section, as the
early workers examined it, was practically colorless, and even
the crudest details of its structure were made out with extreme
difficulty.  Remak did, indeed, manage to discover that the brain
tissue is cellular, as early as 1833, and Ehrenberg in the same
year saw that it is also fibrillar, but beyond this no great
advance was made until 1858, when a sudden impulse was received
from a new process introduced by Gerlach.  The process itself was
most simple, consisting essentially of nothing more than the
treatment of a microscopical section with a solution of carmine.
But the result was wonderful, for when such a section was placed
under the lens it no longer appeared homogeneous. Sprinkled
through its substance were seen irregular bodies that had taken
on a beautiful color, while the matrix in which they were
embedded remained unstained.  In a word, the central nerve cell
had sprung suddenly into clear view.

A most interesting body it proved, this nerve cell, or ganglion
cell, as it came to be called.  It was seen to be exceedingly
minute in size, requiring high powers of the microscope to make
it visible. It exists in almost infinite numbers, not, however,
scattered at random through the brain and spinal cord.  On the
contrary, it is confined to those portions of the central nervous
masses which to the naked eye appear gray in color, being
altogether wanting in the white substance which makes up the
chief mass of the brain. Even in the gray matter, though
sometimes thickly distributed, the ganglion cells are never in
actual contact one with another; they always lie embedded in
intercellular tissues, which came to be known, following Virchow,
as the neuroglia.

Each ganglion cell was seen to be irregular in contour, and to
have jutting out from it two sets of minute fibres, one set
relatively short, indefinitely numerous, and branching in every
direction; the other set limited in number, sometimes even
single, and starting out directly from the cell as if bent on a
longer journey. The numerous filaments came to be known as
protoplasmic processes; the other fibre was named, after its
discoverer, the axis cylinder of Deiters.  It was a natural
inference, though not clearly demonstrable in the sections, that
these filamentous processes are the connecting links between the
different nerve cells and also the channels of communication
between nerve cells and the periphery of the body. The white
substance of brain and cord, apparently, is made up of such
connecting fibres, thus bringing the different ganglion cells
everywhere into communication one with another.

In the attempt to trace the connecting nerve tracts through this
white substance by either macroscopical or microscopical methods,
most important aid is given by a method originated by Waller in
1852. Earlier than that, in 1839, Nasse had discovered that a
severed nerve cord degenerates in its peripheral portions. Waller
discovered that every nerve fibre, sensory or motor, has a nerve
cell to or from which it leads, which dominates its nutrition, so
that it can only retain its vitality while its connection with
that cell is intact.  Such cells he named trophic centres.
Certain cells of the anterior part of the spinal cord, for
example, are the trophic centres of the spinal motor nerves.
Other trophic centres, governing nerve tracts in the spinal cord
itself, are in the various regions of the brain. It occurred to
Waller that by destroying such centres, or by severing the
connection at various regions between a nervous tract and its
trophic centre, sharply defined tracts could be made to
degenerate, and their location could subsequently be accurately
defined, as the degenerated tissues take on a changed aspect,
both to macroscopical and microscopical observation. Recognition
of this principle thus gave the experimenter a new weapon of
great efficiency in tracing nervous connections. Moreover, the
same principle has wide application in case of the human subject
in disease, such as the lesion of nerve tracts or the destruction
of centres by localized tumors, by embolisms, or by traumatisms.

All these various methods of anatomical examination combine to
make the conclusion almost unavoidable that the central ganglion
cells are the veritable "centres" of nervous activity to which so
many other lines of research have pointed. The conclusion was
strengthened by experiments of the students of motor
localization, which showed that the veritable centres of their
discovery lie, demonstrably, in the gray cortex of the brain, not
in the white matter.  But the full proof came from pathology. At
the hands of a multitude of observers it was shown that in
certain well-known diseases of the spinal cord, with resulting
paralysis, it is the ganglion cells themselves that are found to
be destroyed. Similarly, in the case of sufferers from chronic
insanities, with marked dementia, the ganglion cells of the
cortex of the brain are found to have undergone degeneration. The
brains of paretics in particular show such degeneration, in
striking correspondence with their mental decadence. The position
of the ganglion cell as the ultimate centre of nervous activities
was thus placed beyond dispute.

--_Times_.

We are not applying; it is bad enough to read about them.

* * * * *
From a General Routine Order:--
"_Shoeing_.--G.R.O. No. ---- /d 23/10/18. With the exception of
Pack and Draught Mules ..., all animals proceeding to join Units
in the forward area must be shot all round without delay."
That should save the farriers a lot of trouble.

* * * * *
[Illustration: THE ARMY OF UNOCCUPATION.

FIRST GENTLEMAN OF LEISURE. "I SEE THEY'RE GIVING US ANOTHER SIX
MONTHS' UNEMPLOYMENT PAY. SEEMS ALL RIGHT."
SECOND GENTLEMAN OF LEISURE. "YES. BUT WHAT ABOUT THE INDIGNITY
OF HAVING TO FETCH IT? WHY CAN'T THEY BRING IT TO US?"]
* * * * *
[Illustration: _War Profiteer_. "AH, THAT'S BEAUTIFUL--GOT ME TO
THE LIFE, THAT 'AS. WOTIMEANTERSAY IT _LOOKS_ LIKE MONEY, THAT
DOES!"]

* * * * *
ON THE RHINE.

III.

In spite of oft-repeated warnings--in spite of the fact that I
personally explained to each sentry that all he had to
remember was that there were only seven different kinds of
military passes, each one of different colour and all with dates,
stamps and signatures, and that there was no difficulty in
recognising its validity if a pass had the right British
official stamp and so long as the signature underneath was one of
the twenty-four people authorised to sign (a list of which would
be kept in every sentry-box and constantly revised), and
if the

number of the pass, the name of the person, his address,
destination, habits, hobbies and past life tallied exactly with
the information on his "personal Ausweis," which must be
produced except in the case of a licence to proceed by bicycle,
which differed, of course, in colour, shape, size and other
small details (which would have to be learnt by heart) from the
licence to carry foodstuffs--in spite, also, of the fact that all
necessary details of the examination of passes were
typewritten in not more than three pages of the clearest official
language and were posted up in every sentry-box--even then that
ass Nijinsky let the whole company down by passing a member
of the Intelligence Police through the line on his giving his word
of honour that it was all right.

The result was, of course, that I received official intimation
that our line could apparently be broken at any time and that
"steps must be taken," etc., etc. I took steps in the direction
of Nijinsky.

Nijinsky is a Polish Jew (from Commercial Road, E.) and has
long been the despair of his platoon sergeant. He is fat where
there is no need to be fat, his clothes bulge where no clothes
are expected to bulge, and he is the kind of man who loses a
cap-badge once a week, preferably just before the C.O. comes
round. There is only one saving grace about him. He can always
be trusted to volunteer for a dull lecture or outing to which
nobody else wants to go, but to which certain numbers have to be
sent. His invariable reply to the question is, "Yiss, I'll ger-go,
it's ser-something for

ner-nothing."
I found him, as I expected, hanging round the cookhouse,
and taxed him with his neglect of duty.

"He ter-told me I ought to use my dis-cretion, Sir," he piped in his
high plaintive voice.

I told him severely that it was a trick, a very palpable
trick, and that he must ever be on the alert for all such kinds
of evasion.
Finally, when I had informed him how badly he had let us all
down, he waddled away contrite and tearful, and fully under the
impression, I think, that I should probably lose my commission
through his negligence.

I did not realise how deeply he had taken the matter to heart until
I found

him at his post apparently reading the Riot Act to a crowd of
obsequious Huns, who were listening patiently to the written law
as expounded in

Yiddish--that being a language in which he succeeds in making
himself partially understood. The incident passed, but I began to
have fears that the reformed rake might prove a greater danger
than ever.

The next day my worst fears were realised. In fact, during my temporary
absence Nijinsky surpassed himself. At eleven o'clock the General,
supported by his Staff, rolled up in his car and stopped at
Nijinsky's post on his way into "neutral" country. The General,
the G.S.O.1, the D.A.Q.M.G. and the A.D.C. got out, shining,
gorgeous and beflowered with foreign decorations, to chat to the
sentry (you've seen pictures of it; it's always being done),
Nijinsky, who had already turned back two innocuous Gunner Colonels
(armed with sporting guns) that morning, sauntered up, drunk
with newly acquired confidence, his rifle slung on his right
shoulder and his hat over one eye.


"All well here, sentry?" asked the General, towering over him
in all his glory.

"Pup-pass, please," said Nijinsky, ever on the look-out for some
cunning trick.

"Oh, that's all right; I'm General Blank."
The word "General" recalled Nijinsky to his senses. He unslung
his rifle, brought it to the order, brought it to the slope and
presented arms with great solemnity, and as only Nijinsky
can.


"Oh--er--stand easy," said the General, when the meaning of these
evolutions was made manifest to him. "Wonderful days for you
fellows here--what? There have been times when the Rhine seemed a
long way away, didn't it? And now here you are, a victorious
army guarding that very river! It's a wonderful time for
you, and no doubt you appreciate it?"
"Ger-grub's short," said Nijinsky.

"Rations?" said the D.A.Q.M.G. "I've had no complaints."
"Yiss. No spuds--taters, I mean."
"We must see to that," said the General. "Well, we'll go on, I
think;" and they got into the car.

"Pup-pass, please," said Nijinsky, spotting the trick at once.

"Oh, that's all right, my good fellow. Drive on."
"N-n-no," said Nijinsky sternly; "you ker-can't ger-go without
a pup-pup-pass!"



"Come, come, don't be ridiculous. I'm your

General; you know me perfectly well."

"Yiss."
"Then let me through, do you hear? And let me have no more of this
infernal nonsense."
"It's ug-ug--"
"It's what?"
"Ug-against orders."
"_I_ know all about the orders, boy. I gave them myself."
"Yiss, and I'm ker-carrying them out, ain't I?" came with
inexorable logic.

"Well, now I give you orders to let me through. Do you see?"
"Yiss; but if I do they'll have me up for disobeying the
fer-first one. Pup-pass, please."
"Don't be ridiculous. We _must_ go through. Don't you realise we
have our duty to perform?"
"Yiss, Sir, so have I."
"'Pon my soul, this is too preposterous. My good boy, I'm very glad
you know how to obey an order, but you must use your discretion
sometimes."
At the word "discretion"

Nijinsky started. Then he broke all records and winked--winked
at a perfectly good General at eleven o'clock in the morning.

"Oh, no, you der-don't," he grinned; "I've been her-had before.
The Captain says I'm ner-not to use my discretion; it only
ger-gets me into a lot of terouble."
The General got out of his car. So did the G.S.O.1. So did the
D.A.Q.M.G. So did the A.D.C. But the spectacle was not so impressive
as before. They advanced in artillery formation upon the
enemy. It was enough. Perish the General Staff! They were mere
phantoms of authority beside the vision of the company officer
and the words, "Escort and accused--halt. Left--turn. Private
Nijinsky, Sir." With his eyes bulging with excitement Nijinsky
leapt back and assumed the attitude of warlike defiance known
as "coming on guard."
The General hesitated. He did not know Nijinsky, you see; he had
never seen him going sick before the battle, or heard him murmur
"ser-something for ner-nothing," as he took his medicine.

"Look here, my man, you are exceeding your duty and the consequences
will be very serious. I will _not_ be stopped in this outrageous
manner! There is a time to _obey_ orders and there is a time to
_use our discretion_. Confound it, we must _all_ of us use
our discretion at times."

"Then," said Nijinsky, "wer-will you per-please use yours, for. I
ker-can't let you through without a pup-pass."
The sun shone brightly on the car as it retired ignominiously,
leaving Nijinsky hot, happy and victorious, presenting arms
faithfully to the indignant Great Ones, and silence reigned on the
battlefield.

He came and spluttered it all out to me afterwards, concluding with
"I der-didn't let the ker-company down this time, Sir, der-did I?"
and evidently expected a pat on the back for it.


Teams of infuriated artillery horses wouldn't drag from me whether
he got it or not, but from that day to this he has never looked
back.
Indeed he has begun to take a pride in his personal appearance and
general smartness. I met him yesterday wearing a smile like a
slice of melon and with his boots, and buttons glistening in the
sunshine.

"The General came

through to-day, Sir," he said, beaming, "and he her-had a
pup-pass all right;" and he strutted on, making strange noises in
his throat, which I understand is the Yiddish for being pleased
with yourself.

L.

* * * * *
[Illustration: _Alf_. "AIN'T YOU GOIN' TO EAT ANYFINK, 'ERBERT?"

_'Erbert_ (_four years in France_). "WELL, MY OLD FAM AIN'T TURNED
UP WITH MY BIT OF DAYJERNY."]
* * * * *
[Illustration: _Visitor to devastated area_. "JOHN CHINAMAN LIKEE
MUCHEE DLESSEE ALLEE SAMEE ENGLISH SOLDIER."
_Chinese Ganger_. "WELL,

SIR, I DON'T CONCERN MYSELF MUCH ABOUT UNIFORM. ACTUALLY I'M A
JOURNALIST AND ONLY CAME OUT HERE FOR THE EXPERIENCE."]
* * * * *
"General wanted; small family; cook wept; wages £18-£20."--_Local
Paper_.

We confess we should like to know the cause of cook's affliction.
Was it jealousy, or onions?

* * * * *
TO CHLOE, CAUGHT SPRING-CLEANING.

Now wherefore should you be dismayed And in confusion fall, Because
I spied on you arrayed In cap and overall, And saw you for a
moment stand Clenching a duster in

your hand?

The morning ardour of your face Was like a summer rose; One
sooty smudge but seemed to grace The challenge of your nose;
The gaudy thing that hid your hair Performed its office with an
air.

There is a time for stately tire, For frills and furbelows, When
dainty humours should inspire Such vanities as those;
So for stern hours of high intent Behoves a fit habiliment.

Did not those gallants win our pride And heroes stand revealed, Who
flung their fineries aside For fashions of the field?


I, who have known campaigning too, Salute a kindred soul in you.

* * * * *
THE OVERLAND ROUTE.

"H.M.S. New Zealand, with Admiral Jellicoe on board, arrived at
Bombay on March 14, and left for Delhi on the 15th."--_Scots
Paper_.


* * * * *
[Illustration: COMRADES OF THE WAR.

"STRAFE ME IF IT AIN'T ME OLD 'ORACE! W'Y, I AIN'T SEEN YER
SINCE THAT STUNT RAHND CAMBRAI!"]
* * * * *
GETTING A JOB.
John looked very gloomy.
"_Pourquoi triste_, John?" said I, knowing the language.
"Well, it's like this," said John, "the time has come when you and
I must look for a job."
"That's all right," said I cheerfully. "We'll go and see the Advisory
Committee. They'll put us up to a job in civil life. They're sitting
there bubbling over with advice. Employers in England are simply
falling over one another to find positions for brave young officers
who--"
"Yes, I don't think," remarked John very sceptically. "I went to
see the Advisory Committee two days ago. Perhaps I was rather
unfortunate in arriving at the same time as the English mail; anyhow
I came away with the following information and convictions:--
(1) That the easiest job in civil life is to sit on an Advisory
Committee.
(2) That one is always either too old or too young for the Civil
Services.
(3) That I was a devil of a good fellow and I'd won the War (they
patted me on the back and told me so).
(4) That I was to fill up my A.Z.15 and trust in my stars (not the
things on my sleeve)." 
"Well, what about it?" I continued.
"Personally," said John, "I think an advertisement in _The Daily
Telegraph_ is the correct thing. How's this?--
"'Anybody know of a decent war? Two young subs in France, Soldiers
of Fortune (so-called), would like to get in touch with anyone
thinking of starting a first-class war. Send full particulars and
rough strength of enemy to "Warriors," c/o _The Daily Telegraph_.'"
Mine was much more modest:--
"An officer at present in France desires a good job in civil life.
No experience, no education, no languages, no money, no prospects
and no hope. What offers?"
"I don't think they'll bring much," said I. "You know, John, what
we really want is leave." 
So we applied for leave.
John asked permission to remove his person to the U.K. for urgent
and private reasons. I stated that I had a position offered me, but
an interview was necessary, and asked their indulgence for the
purpose.
John's chit came back three days later. "Will this officer state
his urgent and private reasons, please?"
"Ah!" said John, "enemy attitude hostile." Nevertheless he stated
as required.
Three days later it came back again with the request that this
officer further state his reasons, please.
"Enemy attitude distinctly hostile," said John, and committed himself
further.
Nothing happened for a week and John's hopes ran high. "It must be
through, old man," he declared, "or it would have been back before
now."
But when at the end of the week it came back for further information
his ardour cooled somewhat, and when, three days later, it turned
up once more with a request for his urgent and private reasons,
John in a fit of exasperation retorted that if the matter was kept
much longer it wouldn't be urgent, and if they enquired much further
it wouldn't be private. That finished him, and he got no leave.
My application was still on the tapis. Eventually it returned. "This
officer can be granted leave only on condition that he promises to
serve with the Rhine Army." 
"Go on," said John; "promise."
So I promised.
Now, looking over the situation, we find that it amounts to this:
John has no job and never will have till he can get leave to look
for one.
He can't get leave. That's John.
I have a job (I haven't really) if I can get leave to attend an
interview. I've got leave, but only on the understanding that when
I've got the job I refuse it because I've promised to serve on the
Rhine. That's me.

We are now thinking out the next move.
* * * * * 
THE MATERNAL INSTINCT.
_Mr. Crabbe Hermitage to Mrs. Bonnamy_.
_March 30th_.But the task of later
investigators has been largely one of exhumation and translation
of records rather than of finding methods.


TREASURES FROM NINEVEH

The most casual wanderer in the British Museum can hardly fail to
notice two pairs of massive sculptures, in the one case winged
bulls, in the other winged lions, both human-headed, which guard
the entrance to the Egyptian hall, close to the Rosetta Stone. 
Each pair of these weird creatures once guarded an entrance to
the palace of a king in the famous city of Nineveh.  As one
stands before them his mind is carried back over some
twenty-seven intervening centuries, to the days when the "Cedar
of Lebanon" was "fair in his greatness" and the scourge of
Israel.

The very Sculptures before us, for example, were perhaps seen by
Jonah when he made that famous voyage to Nineveh some seven or
eight hundred years B.C. A little later the Babylonian and the
Mede revolted against Assyrian tyranny and descended upon the
fair city of Nineveh, and almost literally levelled it to the
ground. But these great sculptures, among other things, escaped
destruction, and at once hidden and preserved by the accumulating
debris of the centuries, they stood there age after age, their
very existence quite forgotten. When Xenophon marched past their
site with the ill-starred expedition of the ten thousand, in the
year 400 B.C., he saw only a mound which seemed to mark the site
of some ancient ruin; but the Greek did not suspect that he
looked upon the site of that city which only two centuries before
had been the mistress of the world.

So ephemeral is fame!  And yet the moral scarcely holds in the
sequel; for we of to-day, in this new, undreamed-of Western
world, behold these mementos of Assyrian greatness fresh from
their twenty-five hundred years of entombment, and with them
records which restore to us the history of that long-forgotten
people in such detail as it was not known to any previous
generation since the fall of Nineveh.  For two thousand five
hundred years no one saw these treasures or knew that they
existed.  One hundred generations of men came and went without
once pronouncing the name of kings Shalmaneser or Asumazirpal or
Asurbanipal.  And to-day, after these centuries of oblivion,
these names are restored to history, and, thanks to the character
of their monuments, are assured a permanency of fame that can
almost defy time itself. It would be nothing strange, but rather
in keeping with their previous mutations of fortune, if the names
of Asurnazirpal and Asurbanipal should be familiar as household
words to future generations that have forgotten the existence of
an Alexander, a Caesar, and a Napoleon.  For when Macaulay's
prospective New Zealander explores the ruins of the British
Museum the records of the ancient Assyrians will presumably still
be there unscathed, to tell their story as they have told it to
our generation, though every manuscript and printed book may have
gone the way of fragile textures.

But the past of the Assyrian sculptures is quite necromantic
enough without conjuring for them a necromantic future. The story
of their restoration is like a brilliant romance of history. 
Prior to the middle of this century the inquiring student could
learn in an hour or so all that was known in fact and in fable of
the renowned city of Nineveh.  He had but to read a few chapters
of the Bible and a few pages of Diodorus to exhaust the important
literature on the subject. If he turned also to the pages of
Herodotus and Xenophon, of Justin and Aelian, these served
chiefly to confirm the suspicion that the Greeks themselves knew
almost nothing more of the history of their famed Oriental
forerunners. The current fables told of a first King Ninus and
his wonderful queen Semiramis; of Sennacherib the conqueror; of
the effeminate Sardanapalus, who neglected the warlike ways of
his ancestors but perished gloriously at the last, with Nineveh
itself, in a self-imposed holocaust.  And that was all. How much
of this was history, how much myth, no man could say; and for all
any one suspected to the contrary, no man could ever know. And
to-day the contemporary records of the city are before us in such
profusion as no other nation of antiquity, save Egypt alone, can
at all rival.  Whole libraries of Assyrian books are at hand that
were written in the seventh century before our era. These, be it
understood, are the original books themselves, not copies.  The
author of that remote time appeals to us directly, hand to eye,
without intermediary transcriber. And there is not a line of any
Hebrew or Greek manuscript of a like age that has been preserved
to us; there is little enough that can match these ancient books
by a thousand years. From the time (just over three years ago)
when Barbara first attempted articulate speech
I have been bombarded with reports of the wonderful things my
daughter has said. In the earlier years these diverting stories,
for which Julia was nearly always cited as authority, reached me
through the medium of the Field Post-Office, and, being still
fairly new to fatherhood, I used proudly to retail them
in Mess,

until an addition was made to the rule relating to offences
punishable by a round of drinks.

On my brief visits home I would wait expectantly for the
brilliant flashes of humour or of uncanny intelligence to issue
from Barbara's lips, and her failure during these periods to
sustain her reputation I was content to explain on the assumption
that I came within the category of casual visitors. But I have now
lived in my own home for over a year, and Barbara and I have become
very well acquainted. She talks to me without restraint, and at
times most engagingly, but seldom, if ever, does she give utterance
in my hearing to a _jeu d'esprit_ that I feel called upon to
repeat to others. Nevertheless until a few days ago I was still
constantly being informed--chiefly by Barbara's aunt and less
frequently by her mother--of the "killing" things that child had
been saying. I grew privately sceptical, but had no proof,
and it was only by accident that I was at last enabled to
prick the bubble.

Julia (who besides being Barbara's aunt is Suzanne's sister) had
come to tea and was chatting in the drawing-room with Suzanne
(who besides being Julia's sister is Barbara's mother and my wife)
and Barbara (whose relationship all round has been sufficiently
indicated).
The drawing-room door was open, and so was that of my study on
the opposite side of the passage, where I was coquetting with
a trifle of

work. The conversation, which I could not help overhearing, was
confined for the most part to Julia and Barbara, and ran more
or less on the following lines:--
_Julia._ Where's Father, Babs?

_Barbara._ In the libery.

_Julia._ Working hard, I suppose?

_Barbara._ Yes.

_Julia._ Or do you think he's sleeping? (_No answer._) Don't you
think father's probably asleep half the time he's supposed to be
working?

_Barbara._ Probly. What you got in that bag?

_Julia._ I expect that big armchair he sits in is just a weeny bit
too comfy for real work.

_Barbara._ I've eated up


all those choc'lates you

did bring me.

_Julia._ Perhaps we'll find some more presently. Do you think Father
writes in his sleep?

_Barbara._ Yes, I fink he does.

_Julia._ Listen to her, Suzie. I expect really he only dreams he's
working. Don't you, Babs?

At this point I thought it advisable, for the sake of preserving
the remnants of my parental authority, to come in to tea.
Julia was handing Barbara a packet of chocolate, and greeted me
with an arch inquiry as to whether I had been busy writing. I
replied with a hearty affirmative.

"You ought to hear what your daughter has been saying about you,"
said Julia.

"Oh, and what does Barbara say?" I asked.

"She says that when Father sits in that stuffy little room of his
he usually writes in his sleep. She really does take the most amazing
notice of things, and the way she expresses herself is quite weird."
"So Barbara says I write in my sleep?"
"Yes, you heard her, didn't you, Suzie? Oh, and did I tell you that
the other day, during that heavy thunderstorm, she said that the
angels and the devils must be having a big battle and that she
supposed the angels would soon be going over the top?"
"Come here, Barbara," I said.
Barbara, who at her too fond aunt's request had been granted the
privilege of taking tea in the drawing-room, stuffed the better
half of a jam sandwich into her mouth and came.
"Do you see those rich-looking pink cakes?" I asked her. "You shall
have one as soon as we've had a little talk."
"The biggest and pinkiest one?" demanded Barbara.
"Yes. Now tell me--don't you think that people ought always to speak
the truth, and to be especially careful not to distort the remarks
of others?"
"Yes. Can I have the one with the greeny thing on it?"
"Certainly, in a minute. And don't you think that women are much
more careless of the truth than men?" 
"Yes. Can I----"
"Do you love your Aunt Julia?" 
"Yes." 
"Why?"
"Cos she always has got choc'lates in her bag."
"But don't you think it's much more important to have the truth in
your heart than chocolates in your bag?"
"Yes. Now can I have my pink cake?"
I released and rewarded her, and Julia prepared to speak her
mind.
Fortunately, however, just at that moment my brother Tom, who is
Barbara's godfather, came in.
"Why, what a big girl we're getting!" he observed to Barbara in his
best godfatherly manner.For the
Assyrian language, like the Egyptian, was veritably a dead
language; not, like Greek and Latin, merely passed from practical
every-day use to the closet of the scholar, but utterly and
absolutely forgotten by all the world. Such being the case, it is
nothing less than marvellous that it should have been restored.

It is but fair to add that this restoration probably never would
have been effected, with Assyrian or with Egyptian, had the
language in dying left no cognate successor; for the powers of
modern linguistry, though great, are not actually miraculous. 
But, fortunately, a language once developed is not blotted out in
toto; it merely outlives its usefulness and is gradually
supplanted, its successor retaining many traces of its origin. 
So, just as Latin, for example, has its living representatives in
Italian and the other Romance tongues, the language of Assyria is
represented by cognate Semitic languages. As it chances, however,
these have been of aid rather in the later stages of Assyrian
study than at the very outset; and the first clew to the message
of the cuneiform writing came through a slightly different
channel.

Curiously enough, it was a trilingual inscription that gave the
clew, as in the case of the Rosetta Stone, though with very
striking difference withal. The trilingual inscription now in
question, instead of being a small, portable monument, covers the
surface of a massive bluff at Behistun in western Persia. 
Moreover, all three of its inscriptions are in cuneiform
characters, and all three are in languages that at the beginning
of our century were absolutely unknown.  This inscription itself,
as a striking monument of unknown import, had been seen by
successive generations. Tradition ascribed it, as we learn from
Ctesias, through Diodorus, to the fabled Assyrian queen
Semiramis.  Tradition was quite at fault in this; but it is only
recently that knowledge has availed to set it right. The
inscription, as is now known, was really written about the year
515 B.C., at the instance of Darius I., King of Persia, some of
whose deeds it recounts in the three chief languages of his
widely scattered subjects.

The man who at actual risk of life and limb copied this wonderful
inscription, and through interpreting it became the veritable
"father of Assyriology," was the English general Sir Henry
Rawlinson.  His feat was another British triumph over the same
rivals who had competed for the Rosetta Stone; for some French
explorers had been sent by their government, some years earlier,
expressly to copy this strange record, and had reported that it
was impossible to reach the inscription. But British courage did
not find it so, and in 1835 Rawlinson scaled the dangerous height
and made a paper cast of about half the inscription. Diplomatic
duties called him away from the task for some years, but in 1848
he returned to it and completed the copy of all parts of the
inscription that have escaped the ravages of time. And now the
material was in hand for a new science, which General Rawlinson
himself soon, assisted by a host of others, proceeded to
elaborate.

The key to the value of this unique inscription lies in the fact
that its third language is ancient Persian.  It appears that the
ancient Persians had adopted the cuneiform character from their
western neighbors, the Assyrians, but in so doing had made one of
those essential modifications and improvements which are scarcely
possible to accomplish except in the transition from one race to
another.  Instead of building with the arrow-head a multitude of
syllabic characters, including many homophones, as had been and
continued to be the custom with the Assyrians, the Persians
selected a few of these characters and ascribed to them phonetic
values that were almost purely alphabetic. You remember it?

Sleep, Mr. SPEAKER; it's surely fair, If you don't in your bed,
that you should in your Chair; Longer and longer still they grow,
Tory and Radical, Aye and No Talking by night, and talking by
day.
Sleep, Mr. SPEAKER; sleep, sleep, while you may.

[Illustration: Blind Man's Buff with the Chairman; or, "The
Mellor and His Men."]
"Chairman must be on alert every moment in Committee. Rule under
his

jurisdiction is conversation as opposed to speech-making when
SPEAKER in Chair. Any moment out of depths of dulness may suddenly
rise a whirlwind, which he is expected forthwith to ride. Especially
in connection with Bill like this now before Committee, Chairman
is in state of tension from time he takes Chair till he leaves.
Don't forget all this when you criticise MELLOR, still new to place.
He's a good fellow, and a shrewd one; but has, among other
difficulties, to fight against proneness to good-nature. Good-nature
out of place in the Chair. COURTNEY knew that, and successfully
overcame his natural tendencies. MELLOR too anxious to oblige.
Must get over that. Above all, should never explain. Suddenly
called upon for decision on knotty point, must needs make
mistake sometimes. If he does, unless it be very serious,
_he should stick to it_. For Chairman of Committees, better
to be in the wrong and uphold authority of Chair, than to wriggle
into the right at its expense. MELLOR should be more monosyllabic
in his style, more ruthless in his dealing with disorderly interruption,
more wary about putting his foot down, but, being planted, it should
be immovable. It would make his fortune if he could only name
CHAMBERLAIN. That would be difficult, I know, for JOEY C. is sly,
dev'lish sly.Had the
upper part of the Rosetta Stone been preserved, on which,
originally, there were several other names, Young would not have
halted where he did in his decipherment.

But fortune, which had been at once so kind and so tantalizing in
the case of the Rosetta Stone, had dealt more gently with the
Behistun inscriptions; for no fewer than ninety proper names were
preserved in the Persian portion and duplicated, in another
character, in the Assyrian inscription. A study of these gave a
clew to the sounds of the Assyrian characters. The decipherment
of this character, however, even with this aid, proved enormously
difficult, for it was soon evident that here it was no longer a
question of a nearly perfect alphabet of a few characters, but of
a syllabary of several hundred characters, including many
homophones, or different forms for representing the same sound.
But with the Persian translation for a guide on the one hand, and
the Semitic languages, to which family the Assyrian belonged, on
the other, the appalling task was gradually accomplished, the
leading investigators being General Rawlinson, Professor Hincks,
and Mr. Fox-Talbot, in England, Professor Jules Oppert, in Paris,
and Professor Julian Schrader, in Germany, though a host of other
scholars soon entered the field.

This great linguistic feat was accomplished about the middle of
the nineteenth century.  But so great a feat was it that many
scholars of the highest standing, including Joseph Erneste Renan,
in France, and Sir G. Cornewall Lewis, in England, declined at
first to accept the results, contending that the Assyriologists
had merely deceived themselves by creating an arbitrary language.
The matter was put to a test in 1855 at the suggestion of Mr.
Fox-Talbot, when four scholars, one being Mr. Talbot himself and
the others General Rawlinson, Professor Hincks, and Professor
Oppert, laid before the Royal Asiatic Society their independent
interpretations of a hitherto untranslated Assyrian text.  A
committee of the society, including England's greatest historian
of the century, George Grote, broke the seals of the four
translations, and reported that they found them unequivocally in
accord as regards their main purport, and even surprisingly
uniform as regards the phraseology of certain passages--in short,
as closely similar as translations from the obscure texts of any
difficult language ever are. This decision gave the work of the
Assyriologists official status, and the reliability of their
method has never since been in question. Henceforth Assyriology
was an established science.



APPENDIX

REFERENCE-LIST

CHAPTER I. MODERN DEVELOPMENT OF THE PHYSICAL SCIENCES

[1] Robert Boyle, Philosophical Works (3 vols.). London, 1738.

CHAPTER II.  THE BEGINNINGS OF MODERN CHEMISTRY 

[1] For a complete account of the controversy called the "Water
Controversy," see The Life of the Hon. Henry Cavendish, by George
Wilson, M.D., F.R.S.E. London, 1850.

[2] Henry Cavendish, in Phil. Trans. for 1784, P. 119.

[3] Lives of the Philosophers of the Time of George III., by
Henry, Lord Brougham, F.R.S., p. 106.  London, 1855.  

[4] Experiments and Observations on Different Kinds of Air, by
Joseph Priestley (3 vols.). Birmingham, 790, vol. II, pp.
103-107

[PRICE 2d.



* * * * *


KEW PALACE.


[Illustration: Kew

Palace.]


Innumerable are the instances

of princes having sought to perpetuate their

memories by the building of palaces, from the _Domus

Aurea_, or golden house of Nero, to the comparatively puny

structures of our own times. As specimens

of modern magnificence and substantial comfort, the latter
class of edifices may be admirable; but we are bound to

acknowledge, that in boldness and splendour of design, they

cannot assimilate

to the labours of antiquity, much of whose stupendous character
is to this day preserved in

many series of interesting ruins:--
Whilst

in the progress of the long decay, Thrones sink to dust, and

nations pass away.


As a record of this degeneracy, near the western corner of
Kew Green stands the new palace, commenced for George III., under
the direction of the late James Wyatt, Esq.

The north front, the only part open to public inspection,

possesses an air of solemn, sullen grandeur;

but it very ill accords with the taste and science generally displayed
by its nominal architect.

To quote the words of a

contemporary, "this Anglo-Teutonic, castellated, gothized structure
must be considered as an abortive production,

at once illustrative of bad taste and defective judgment.
From the small size of the windows and the diminutive

proportion of its turrets, it would seem to possess
"'Windows that exclude the light, And passages

that lead to nothing.'"

Upon the unhappy seclusion of the _royal_ architect, the works
were suspended, and it now remains unfinished. Censure and abuse
have, however, always been abundantly lavished on its architecture,
whether it be the result of royal caprice or of professional study;
but the taste of either party deserves to be taxed with its
demerits.

The northern front was intended to be appropriated

to the use of domestics; the whole building is rendered
nearly indestructible by fire, by means of cast-iron joists and
rafters, &c., certainly in this case an unnecessary precaution,
since the whole pile is shortly to be pulled down. The foundation,
too, is in a bog close to the Thames, and the principal
object in its view is the dirty town of Brentford, on the
opposite side of the river; a selection, it would seem, of _family_
taste, for George II. is known to have often said, when riding
through Brentford, "I do like this place, it's so like Yarmany."

A modern tourist, in "A Morning's Walk from London to Kew,"
characterizes the new palace as "the _Bastile palace_, from its
resemblance to that building, so obnoxious to freedom and freemen.
On a former occasion," says he, "I have viewed its interior, and I
am at a loss to conceive the motive for preferring an external form,
which rendered it impracticable to construct within it more than a
series of large closets, boudoirs, and rooms like oratories." The
latter part of this censure is judiciously correct; but the epithet
"bastile" is perhaps too harsh for some ears.CHAPTER VIII. NINETEENTH-CENTURY MEDICINE

[1] In the introduction to Corvisart's translation of
Avenbrugger's work. Paris, 1808.

[2] Laennec, Traite d'Auscultation Mediate. Paris, 1819. This was
Laennec's chief work, and was soon translated into several
different languages. Before publishing this he had written also,
Propositions sur la doctrine midicale d'Hippocrate, Paris, 1804,
and Memoires sur les vers visiculaires, in the same year.

[3] Researches, Chemical and Philosophical, chiefly concerning
Nitrous Oxide or Dephlogisticated Nitrous Air and its
Respiration, by Humphry Davy. London, 1800, pp. 479-556.

[4] Ibid.

[5] For accounts of the discovery of anaesthesia, see Report of
the Board of Trustees of the Massachusetts General Hospital,
Boston, 1888. Also, The Ether Controversy: Vindication of the
Hospital Reports of 1848, by N. L Bowditch, Boston, 1848. An
excellent account is given in Littell's Living Age, for March,
1848, written by R. H. Dana, Jr. There are also two Congressional
Reports on the question of the discovery of etherization, one for
1848, the other for 11852.

[6] Simpson made public this discovery of the anaesthetic
properties of chloroform in a paper read before the
Medico-Chirurgical Society of Edinburgh, in March, 1847, about
three months after he had first seen a surgical operation
performed upon a patient to whom ether had been administered.

[7] Louis Pasteur, Studies on Fermentation. London, 1870.

[8] Louis Pasteur, in Comptes Rendus des Sciences de L'Academie
des Sciences, vol. XCII., 1881, pp. 429-435.

CHAPTER IX. THE NEW SCIENCE OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY

[1] Bell's communications were made to the Royal Society, but his
studies and his discoveries in the field of anatomy of the
nervous system were collected and published, in 1824, as An
Exposition of the Natural System of Nerves of the Human Body:
being a Republication of the Papers delivered to the Royal
Society on the Subject of the Nerves.

[2] Marshall Hall, M.D., F.R.S.L., On the Reflex Functions of the
Medulla Oblongata and the Medulla Spinalis, in Phil. Trans. of
Royal Soc., vol. XXXIII., 1833.




